**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Materials Informatics Transformer: A Language Model for Interpretable  Materials Properties Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16259  
**Abstract:** Recently, the remarkable capabilities of large language models (LLMs) have been illustrated across a variety of research domains such as natural language processing, computer vision, and molecular modeling. We extend this paradigm by utilizing LLMs for material property prediction by introducing our model Materials Informatics Transformer (MatInFormer). Specifically, we introduce a novel approach that involves learning the grammar of crystallography through the tokenization of pertinent space group information. We further illustrate the adaptability of MatInFormer by incorporating task-specific data pertaining to Metal-Organic Frameworks (MOFs). Through attention visualization, we uncover the key features that the model prioritizes during property prediction. The effectiveness of our proposed model is empirically validated across 14 distinct datasets, hereby underscoring its potential for high throughput screening through accurate material property prediction. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Emergence of Segmentation with Minimalistic White-Box Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16271  
**Abstract:** Transformer-like models for vision tasks have recently proven effective for a wide range of downstream applications such as segmentation and detection. Previous works have shown that segmentation properties emerge in vision transformers (ViTs) trained using self-supervised methods such as DINO, but not in those trained on supervised classification tasks. In this study, we probe whether segmentation emerges in transformer-based models solely as a result of intricate self-supervised learning mechanisms, or if the same emergence can be achieved under much broader conditions through proper design of the model architecture. Through extensive experimental results, we demonstrate that when employing a white-box transformer-like architecture known as CRATE, whose design explicitly models and pursues low-dimensional structures in the data distribution, segmentation properties, at both the whole and parts levels, already emerge with a minimalistic supervised training recipe. Layer-wise finer-grained analysis reveals that the emergent properties strongly corroborate the designed mathematical functions of the white-box network. Our results suggest a path to design white-box foundation models that are simultaneously highly performant and mathematically fully interpretable. Code is at \url{https://github.com/Ma-Lab-Berkeley/CRATE}. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Ten Years of Generative Adversarial Nets (GANs): A survey of the  state-of-the-art  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16316  
**Abstract:** Since their inception in 2014, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have rapidly emerged as powerful tools for generating realistic and diverse data across various domains, including computer vision and other applied areas. Consisting of a discriminative network and a generative network engaged in a Minimax game, GANs have revolutionized the field of generative modeling. In February 2018, GAN secured the leading spot on the ``Top Ten Global Breakthrough Technologies List'' issued by the Massachusetts Science and Technology Review. Over the years, numerous advancements have been proposed, leading to a rich array of GAN variants, such as conditional GAN, Wasserstein GAN, CycleGAN, and StyleGAN, among many others. This survey aims to provide a general overview of GANs, summarizing the latent architecture, validation metrics, and application areas of the most widely recognized variants. We also delve into recent theoretical developments, exploring the profound connection between the adversarial principle underlying GAN and Jensen-Shannon divergence, while discussing the optimality characteristics of the GAN framework. The efficiency of GAN variants and their model architectures will be evaluated along with training obstacles as well as training solutions. In addition, a detailed discussion will be provided, examining the integration of GANs with newly developed deep learning frameworks such as Transformers, Physics-Informed Neural Networks, Large Language models, and Diffusion models. Finally, we reveal several issues as well as future research outlines in this field. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Catalog Phrase Grounding (CPG): Grounding of Product Textual Attributes  in Product Images for e-commerce Vision-Language Applications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16354  
**Abstract:** We present Catalog Phrase Grounding (CPG), a model that can associate product textual data (title, brands) into corresponding regions of product images (isolated product region, brand logo region) for e-commerce vision-language applications. We use a state-of-the-art modulated multimodal transformer encoder-decoder architecture unifying object detection and phrase-grounding. We train the model in self-supervised fashion with 2.3 million image-text pairs synthesized from an e-commerce site. The self-supervision data is annotated with high-confidence pseudo-labels generated with a combination of teacher models: a pre-trained general domain phrase grounding model (e.g. MDETR) and a specialized logo detection model. This allows CPG, as a student model, to benefit from transfer knowledge from these base models combining general-domain knowledge and specialized knowledge. Beyond immediate catalog phrase grounding tasks, we can benefit from CPG representations by incorporating them as ML features into downstream catalog applications that require deep semantic understanding of products. Our experiments on product-brand matching, a challenging e-commerce application, show that incorporating CPG representations into the existing production ensemble system leads to on average 5% recall improvement across all countries globally (with the largest lift of 11% in a single country) at fixed 95% precision, outperforming other alternatives including a logo detection teacher model and ResNet50. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Large Language Models as Data Preprocessors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16361  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), typified by OpenAI's GPT series and Meta's LLaMA variants, have marked a significant advancement in artificial intelligence. Trained on vast amounts of text data, LLMs are capable of understanding and generating human-like text across a diverse range of topics. This study expands on the applications of LLMs, exploring their potential in data preprocessing, a critical stage in data mining and analytics applications. We delve into the applicability of state-of-the-art LLMs such as GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Vicuna-13B for error detection, data imputation, schema matching, and entity matching tasks. Alongside showcasing the inherent capabilities of LLMs, we highlight their limitations, particularly in terms of computational expense and inefficiency. We propose an LLM-based framework for data preprocessing, which integrates cutting-edge prompt engineering techniques, coupled with traditional methods like contextualization and feature selection, to improve the performance and efficiency of these models. The effectiveness of LLMs in data preprocessing is evaluated through an experimental study spanning 12 datasets. GPT-4 emerged as a standout, achieving 100\% accuracy or F1 score on 4 datasets, suggesting LLMs' immense potential in these tasks. Despite certain limitations, our study underscores the promise of LLMs in this domain and anticipates future developments to overcome current hurdles. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Accused: How students respond to allegations of using ChatGPT on  assessments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16374  
**Abstract:** This study explores student responses to allegations of cheating using ChatGPT, a popular software platform that can be used to generate grammatical and broadly correct text on virtually any topic. Forty-nine posts and the ensuing discussions were collected from Reddit, an online discussion forum, in which students shared their experiences of being accused (the majority falsely) and discussed how to navigate their situations. A thematic analysis was conducted with this material, and five themes were discerned: a legalistic stance, involving argument strategy and evidence gathering; the societal role of higher education as a high-stakes gatekeeper; the vicissitudes of trust in students vs. technology; questions of what constitutes cheating; and the need to rethink assessment. The findings from this study will help instructors and institutions to create more meaningful assessments in the age of AI and develop guidelines for student use of ChatGPT and other AI tools. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Multi-Objective Decision Transformers for Offline Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16379  
**Abstract:** Offline Reinforcement Learning (RL) is structured to derive policies from static trajectory data without requiring real-time environment interactions. Recent studies have shown the feasibility of framing offline RL as a sequence modeling task, where the sole aim is to predict actions based on prior context using the transformer architecture. However, the limitation of this single task learning approach is its potential to undermine the transformer model's attention mechanism, which should ideally allocate varying attention weights across different tokens in the input context for optimal prediction. To address this, we reformulate offline RL as a multi-objective optimization problem, where the prediction is extended to states and returns. We also highlight a potential flaw in the trajectory representation used for sequence modeling, which could generate inaccuracies when modeling the state and return distributions. This is due to the non-smoothness of the action distribution within the trajectory dictated by the behavioral policy. To mitigate this issue, we introduce action space regions to the trajectory representation. Our experiments on D4RL benchmark locomotion tasks reveal that our propositions allow for more effective utilization of the attention mechanism in the transformer model, resulting in performance that either matches or outperforms current state-of-the art methods. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** BioCoder: A Benchmark for Bioinformatics Code Generation with Contextual  Pragmatic Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16458  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained language models like ChatGPT have significantly improved code generation. As these models scale up, there is an increasing need for the output to handle more intricate tasks. Moreover, in bioinformatics, generating functional programs poses additional notable challenges due to the amount of domain knowledge, the need for complicated data operations, and intricate functional dependencies between the operations. Here, we present BioCoder, a benchmark developed to evaluate existing pre-trained models in generating bioinformatics code. In relation to function-code generation, BioCoder covers potential package dependencies, class declarations, and global variables. It incorporates 1026 functions and 1243 methods in Python and Java from GitHub and 253 examples from the Rosalind Project. BioCoder incorporates a fuzz-testing framework for evaluation, and we have applied it to evaluate many models including InCoder, CodeGen, CodeGen2, SantaCoder, StarCoder, StarCoder+, InstructCodeT5+, and ChatGPT. Our detailed analysis of these models emphasizes the importance of domain knowledge, pragmatic code generation, and contextual understanding. Our dataset, benchmark, Docker images, and scripts required for testing are all available at https://github.com/gersteinlab/biocoder. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Sparkles: Unlocking Chats Across Multiple Images for Multimodal  Instruction-Following Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16463  
**Abstract:** Large language models exhibit enhanced zero-shot performance on various tasks when fine-tuned with instruction-following data. Multimodal instruction-following models extend these capabilities by integrating both text and images. However, existing models such as MiniGPT-4 face challenges in maintaining dialogue coherence in scenarios involving multiple images. A primary reason is the lack of a specialized dataset for this critical application. To bridge these gaps, we present SparklesChat, a multimodal instruction-following model for open-ended dialogues across multiple images. To support the training, we introduce SparklesDialogue, the first machine-generated dialogue dataset tailored for word-level interleaved multi-image and text interactions. Furthermore, we construct SparklesEval, a GPT-assisted benchmark for quantitatively assessing a model's conversational competence across multiple images and dialogue turns. Our experiments validate the effectiveness of SparklesChat in understanding and reasoning across multiple images and dialogue turns. Specifically, SparklesChat outperformed MiniGPT-4 on established vision-and-language benchmarks, including the BISON binary image selection task and the NLVR2 visual reasoning task. Moreover, SparklesChat scored 8.56 out of 10 on SparklesEval, substantially exceeding MiniGPT-4's score of 3.91 and nearing GPT-4's score of 9.26. Qualitative evaluations further demonstrate SparklesChat's generality in handling real-world applications. All resources will be available at https://github.com/HYPJUDY/Sparkles. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** MaintainoMATE: A GitHub App for Intelligent Automation of Maintenance  Activities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16464  
**Abstract:** Software development projects rely on issue tracking systems at the core of tracking maintenance tasks such as bug reports, and enhancement requests. Incoming issue-reports on these issue tracking systems must be managed in an effective manner. First, they must be labelled and then assigned to a particular developer with relevant expertise. This handling of issue-reports is critical and requires thorough scanning of the text entered in an issue-report making it a labor-intensive task. In this paper, we present a unified framework called MaintainoMATE, which is capable of automatically categorizing the issue-reports in their respective category and further assigning the issue-reports to a developer with relevant expertise. We use the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), as an underlying model for MaintainoMATE to learn the contextual information for automatic issue-report labeling and assignment tasks. We deploy the framework used in this work as a GitHub application. We empirically evaluate our approach on GitHub issue-reports to show its capability of assigning labels to the issue-reports. We were able to achieve an F1-score close to 80\%, which is comparable to existing state-of-the-art results. Similarly, our initial evaluations show that we can assign relevant developers to the issue-reports with an F1 score of 54\%, which is a significant improvement over existing approaches. Our initial findings suggest that MaintainoMATE has the potential of improving software quality and reducing maintenance costs by accurately automating activities involved in the maintenance processes. Our future work would be directed towards improving the issue-assignment module. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Enhancing Subtask Performance of Multi-modal Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16474  
**Abstract:** Multi-modal Large Language Model (MLLM) refers to a model expanded from a Large Language Model (LLM) that possesses the capability to handle and infer multi-modal data. Current MLLMs typically begin by using LLMs to decompose tasks into multiple subtasks, then employing individual pre-trained models to complete specific subtasks, and ultimately utilizing LLMs to integrate the results of each subtasks to obtain the results of the task. In real-world scenarios, when dealing with large projects, it is common practice to break down the project into smaller sub-projects, with different teams providing corresponding solutions or results. The project owner then decides which solution or result to use, ensuring the best possible outcome for each subtask and, consequently, for the entire project. Inspired by this, this study considers selecting multiple pre-trained models to complete the same subtask. By combining the results from multiple pre-trained models, the optimal subtask result is obtained, enhancing the performance of the MLLM. Specifically, this study first selects multiple pre-trained models focused on the same subtask based on distinct evaluation approaches, and then invokes these models in parallel to process input data and generate corresponding subtask results. Finally, the results from multiple pre-trained models for the same subtask are compared using the LLM, and the best result is chosen as the outcome for that subtask. Extensive experiments are conducted in this study using GPT-4 annotated datasets and human-annotated datasets. The results of various evaluation metrics adequately demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach in this paper. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Transformer Compression via Subspace Projection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16475  
**Abstract:** We propose TCSP, a novel method for compressing a transformer model by focusing on reducing the hidden size of the model. By projecting the whole transform model into a subspace, we enable matrix operations between the weight matrices in the model and features in a reduced-dimensional space, leading to significant reductions in model parameters and computing resources. To establish this subspace, we decompose the feature matrix, derived from different layers of sampled data instances, into a projection matrix. For evaluation, TCSP is applied to compress T5 and BERT models on the GLUE and SQuAD benchmarks. Experimental results demonstrate that TCSP achieves a compression ratio of 44\% with at most 1.6\% degradation in accuracy, surpassing or matching prior compression methods. Furthermore, TCSP exhibits compatibility with other methods targeting filter and attention head size compression. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Robust GAN inversion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16510  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in real image editing have been attributed to the exploration of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) latent space. However, the main challenge of this procedure is GAN inversion, which aims to map the image to the latent space accurately. Existing methods that work on extended latent space $W+$ are unable to achieve low distortion and high editability simultaneously. To address this issue, we propose an approach which works in native latent space $W$ and tunes the generator network to restore missing image details. We introduce a novel regularization strategy with learnable coefficients obtained by training randomized StyleGAN 2 model - WRanGAN. This method outperforms traditional approaches in terms of reconstruction quality and computational efficiency, achieving the lowest distortion with 4 times fewer parameters. Furthermore, we observe a slight improvement in the quality of constructing hyperplanes corresponding to binary image attributes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on two complex datasets: Flickr-Faces-HQ and LSUN Church. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** MVDream: Multi-view Diffusion for 3D Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16512  
**Abstract:** We propose MVDream, a multi-view diffusion model that is able to generate geometrically consistent multi-view images from a given text prompt. By leveraging image diffusion models pre-trained on large-scale web datasets and a multi-view dataset rendered from 3D assets, the resulting multi-view diffusion model can achieve both the generalizability of 2D diffusion and the consistency of 3D data. Such a model can thus be applied as a multi-view prior for 3D generation via Score Distillation Sampling, where it greatly improves the stability of existing 2D-lifting methods by solving the 3D consistency problem. Finally, we show that the multi-view diffusion model can also be fine-tuned under a few shot setting for personalized 3D generation, i.e. DreamBooth3D application, where the consistency can be maintained after learning the subject identity. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Conditioning Score-Based Generative Models by Neuro-Symbolic Constraints  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16534  
**Abstract:** Score-based and diffusion models have emerged as effective approaches for both conditional and unconditional generation. Still conditional generation is based on either a specific training of a conditional model or classifier guidance, which requires training a noise-dependent classifier, even when the classifier for uncorrupted data is given. We propose an approach to sample from unconditional score-based generative models enforcing arbitrary logical constraints, without any additional training. Firstly, we show how to manipulate the learned score in order to sample from an un-normalized distribution conditional on a user-defined constraint. Then, we define a flexible and numerically stable neuro-symbolic framework for encoding soft logical constraints. Combining these two ingredients we obtain a general, but approximate, conditional sampling algorithm. We further developed effective heuristics aimed at improving the approximation. Finally, we show the effectiveness of our approach for various types of constraints and data: tabular data, images and time series. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Prompt-enhanced Hierarchical Transformer Elevating Cardiopulmonary  Resuscitation Instruction via Temporal Action Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16552  
**Abstract:** The vast majority of people who suffer unexpected cardiac arrest are performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) by passersby in a desperate attempt to restore life, but endeavors turn out to be fruitless on account of disqualification. Fortunately, many pieces of research manifest that disciplined training will help to elevate the success rate of resuscitation, which constantly desires a seamless combination of novel techniques to yield further advancement. To this end, we collect a custom CPR video dataset in which trainees make efforts to behave resuscitation on mannequins independently in adherence to approved guidelines, thereby devising an auxiliary toolbox to assist supervision and rectification of intermediate potential issues via modern deep learning methodologies. Our research empirically views this problem as a temporal action segmentation (TAS) task in computer vision, which aims to segment an untrimmed video at a frame-wise level. Here, we propose a Prompt-enhanced hierarchical Transformer (PhiTrans) that integrates three indispensable modules, including a textual prompt-based Video Features Extractor (VFE), a transformer-based Action Segmentation Executor (ASE), and a regression-based Prediction Refinement Calibrator (PRC). The backbone of the model preferentially derives from applications in three approved public datasets (GTEA, 50Salads, and Breakfast) collected for TAS tasks, which accounts for the excavation of the segmentation pipeline on the CPR dataset. In general, we unprecedentedly probe into a feasible pipeline that genuinely elevates the CPR instruction qualification via action segmentation in conjunction with cutting-edge deep learning techniques. Associated experiments advocate our implementation with multiple metrics surpassing 91.0%. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** LightGrad: Lightweight Diffusion Probabilistic Model for Text-to-Speech  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16569  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in neural text-to-speech (TTS) models bring thousands of TTS applications into daily life, where models are deployed in cloud to provide services for customs. Among these models are diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs), which can be stably trained and are more parameter-efficient compared with other generative models. As transmitting data between customs and the cloud introduces high latency and the risk of exposing private data, deploying TTS models on edge devices is preferred. When implementing DPMs onto edge devices, there are two practical problems. First, current DPMs are not lightweight enough for resource-constrained devices. Second, DPMs require many denoising steps in inference, which increases latency. In this work, we present LightGrad, a lightweight DPM for TTS. LightGrad is equipped with a lightweight U-Net diffusion decoder and a training-free fast sampling technique, reducing both model parameters and inference latency. Streaming inference is also implemented in LightGrad to reduce latency further. Compared with Grad-TTS, LightGrad achieves 62.2% reduction in paramters, 65.7% reduction in latency, while preserving comparable speech quality on both Chinese Mandarin and English in 4 denoising steps. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Document Layout Analysis on BaDLAD Dataset: A Comprehensive MViTv2 Based  Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16571  
**Abstract:** In the rapidly evolving digital era, the analysis of document layouts plays a pivotal role in automated information extraction and interpretation. In our work, we have trained MViTv2 transformer model architecture with cascaded mask R-CNN on BaDLAD dataset to extract text box, paragraphs, images and tables from a document. After training on 20365 document images for 36 epochs in a 3 phase cycle, we achieved a training loss of 0.2125 and a mask loss of 0.19. Our work extends beyond training, delving into the exploration of potential enhancement avenues. We investigate the impact of rotation and flip augmentation, the effectiveness of slicing input images pre-inference, the implications of varying the resolution of the transformer backbone, and the potential of employing a dual-pass inference to uncover missed text-boxes. Through these explorations, we observe a spectrum of outcomes, where some modifications result in tangible performance improvements, while others offer unique insights for future endeavors. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** CL-MAE: Curriculum-Learned Masked Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16572  
**Abstract:** Masked image modeling has been demonstrated as a powerful pretext task for generating robust representations that can be effectively generalized across multiple downstream tasks. Typically, this approach involves randomly masking patches (tokens) in input images, with the masking strategy remaining unchanged during training. In this paper, we propose a curriculum learning approach that updates the masking strategy to continually increase the complexity of the self-supervised reconstruction task. We conjecture that, by gradually increasing the task complexity, the model can learn more sophisticated and transferable representations. To facilitate this, we introduce a novel learnable masking module that possesses the capability to generate masks of different complexities, and integrate the proposed module into masked autoencoders (MAE). Our module is jointly trained with the MAE, while adjusting its behavior during training, transitioning from a partner to the MAE (optimizing the same reconstruction loss) to an adversary (optimizing the opposite loss), while passing through a neutral state. The transition between these behaviors is smooth, being regulated by a factor that is multiplied with the reconstruction loss of the masking module. The resulting training procedure generates an easy-to-hard curriculum. We train our Curriculum-Learned Masked Autoencoder (CL-MAE) on ImageNet and show that it exhibits superior representation learning capabilities compared to MAE. The empirical results on five downstream tasks confirm our conjecture, demonstrating that curriculum learning can be successfully used to self-supervise masked autoencoders. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** GHuNeRF: Generalizable Human NeRF from a Monocular Video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16576  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we tackle the challenging task of learning a generalizable human NeRF model from a monocular video. Although existing generalizable human NeRFs have achieved impressive results, they require muti-view images or videos which might not be always available. On the other hand, some works on free-viewpoint rendering of human from monocular videos cannot be generalized to unseen identities. In view of these limitations, we propose GHuNeRF to learn a generalizable human NeRF model from a monocular video of the human performer. We first introduce a visibility-aware aggregation scheme to compute vertex-wise features, which is used to construct a 3D feature volume. The feature volume can only represent the overall geometry of the human performer with insufficient accuracy due to the limited resolution. To solve this, we further enhance the volume feature with temporally aligned point-wise features using an attention mechanism. Finally, the enhanced feature is used for predicting density and color for each sampled point. A surface-guided sampling strategy is also introduced to improve the efficiency for both training and inference. We validate our approach on the widely-used ZJU-MoCap dataset, where we achieve comparable performance with existing multi-view video based approaches. We also test on the monocular People-Snapshot dataset and achieve better performance than existing works when only monocular video is used. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Any-Size-Diffusion: Toward Efficient Text-Driven Synthesis for Any-Size  HD Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16582  
**Abstract:** Stable diffusion, a generative model used in text-to-image synthesis, frequently encounters resolution-induced composition problems when generating images of varying sizes. This issue primarily stems from the model being trained on pairs of single-scale images and their corresponding text descriptions. Moreover, direct training on images of unlimited sizes is unfeasible, as it would require an immense number of text-image pairs and entail substantial computational expenses. To overcome these challenges, we propose a two-stage pipeline named Any-Size-Diffusion (ASD), designed to efficiently generate well-composed images of any size, while minimizing the need for high-memory GPU resources. Specifically, the initial stage, dubbed Any Ratio Adaptability Diffusion (ARAD), leverages a selected set of images with a restricted range of ratios to optimize the text-conditional diffusion model, thereby improving its ability to adjust composition to accommodate diverse image sizes. To support the creation of images at any desired size, we further introduce a technique called Fast Seamless Tiled Diffusion (FSTD) at the subsequent stage. This method allows for the rapid enlargement of the ASD output to any high-resolution size, avoiding seaming artifacts or memory overloads. Experimental results on the LAION-COCO and MM-CelebA-HQ benchmarks demonstrate that ASD can produce well-structured images of arbitrary sizes, cutting down the inference time by 2x compared to the traditional tiled algorithm. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Detecting Out-of-Context Image-Caption Pairs in News: A  Counter-Intuitive Method  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16611  
**Abstract:** The growth of misinformation and re-contextualized media in social media and news leads to an increasing need for fact-checking methods. Concurrently, the advancement in generative models makes cheapfakes and deepfakes both easier to make and harder to detect. In this paper, we present a novel approach using generative image models to our advantage for detecting Out-of-Context (OOC) use of images-caption pairs in news. We present two new datasets with a total of $6800$ images generated using two different generative models including (1) DALL-E 2, and (2) Stable-Diffusion. We are confident that the method proposed in this paper can further research on generative models in the field of cheapfake detection, and that the resulting datasets can be used to train and evaluate new models aimed at detecting cheapfakes. We run a preliminary qualitative and quantitative analysis to evaluate the performance of each image generation model for this task, and evaluate a handful of methods for computing image similarity. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** MFR-Net: Multi-faceted Responsive Listening Head Generation via  Denoising Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16635  
**Abstract:** Face-to-face communication is a common scenario including roles of speakers and listeners. Most existing research methods focus on producing speaker videos, while the generation of listener heads remains largely overlooked. Responsive listening head generation is an important task that aims to model face-to-face communication scenarios by generating a listener head video given a speaker video and a listener head image. An ideal generated responsive listening video should respond to the speaker with attitude or viewpoint expressing while maintaining diversity in interaction patterns and accuracy in listener identity information. To achieve this goal, we propose the \textbf{M}ulti-\textbf{F}aceted \textbf{R}esponsive Listening Head Generation Network (MFR-Net). Specifically, MFR-Net employs the probabilistic denoising diffusion model to predict diverse head pose and expression features. In order to perform multi-faceted response to the speaker video, while maintaining accurate listener identity preservation, we design the Feature Aggregation Module to boost listener identity features and fuse them with other speaker-related features. Finally, a renderer finetuned with identity consistency loss produces the final listening head videos. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that MFR-Net not only achieves multi-faceted responses in diversity and speaker identity information but also in attitude and viewpoint expression. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Generate Your Own Scotland: Satellite Image Generation Conditioned on  Maps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16648  
**Abstract:** Despite recent advancements in image generation, diffusion models still remain largely underexplored in Earth Observation. In this paper we show that state-of-the-art pretrained diffusion models can be conditioned on cartographic data to generate realistic satellite images. We provide two large datasets of paired OpenStreetMap images and satellite views over the region of Mainland Scotland and the Central Belt. We train a ControlNet model and qualitatively evaluate the results, demonstrating that both image quality and map fidelity are possible. Finally, we provide some insights on the opportunities and challenges of applying these models for remote sensing. Our model weights and code for creating the dataset are publicly available at https://github.com/miquel-espinosa/map-sat. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Diffusion Inertial Poser: Human Motion Reconstruction from Arbitrary  Sparse IMU Configurations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16682  
**Abstract:** Motion capture from a limited number of inertial measurement units (IMUs) has important applications in health, human performance, and virtual reality. Real-world limitations and application-specific goals dictate different IMU configurations (i.e., number of IMUs and chosen attachment body segments), trading off accuracy and practicality. Although recent works were successful in accurately reconstructing whole-body motion from six IMUs, these systems only work with a specific IMU configuration. Here we propose a single diffusion generative model, Diffusion Inertial Poser (DiffIP), which reconstructs human motion in real-time from arbitrary IMU configurations. We show that DiffIP has the benefit of flexibility with respect to the IMU configuration while being as accurate as the state-of-the-art for the commonly used six IMU configuration. Our system enables selecting an optimal configuration for different applications without retraining the model. For example, when only four IMUs are available, DiffIP found that the configuration that minimizes errors in joint kinematics instruments the thighs and forearms. However, global translation reconstruction is better when instrumenting the feet instead of the thighs. Although our approach is agnostic to the underlying model, we built DiffIP based on physiologically realistic musculoskeletal models to enable use in biomedical research and health applications. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** DictaBERT: A State-of-the-Art BERT Suite for Modern Hebrew  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16687  
**Abstract:** We present DictaBERT, a new state-of-the-art pre-trained BERT model for modern Hebrew, outperforming existing models on most benchmarks. Additionally, we release two fine-tuned versions of the model, designed to perform two specific foundational tasks in the analysis of Hebrew texts: prefix segmentation and morphological tagging. These fine-tuned models allow any developer to perform prefix segmentation and morphological tagging of a Hebrew sentence with a single call to a HuggingFace model, without the need to integrate any additional libraries or code. In this paper we describe the details of the training as well and the results on the different benchmarks. We release the models to the community, along with sample code demonstrating their use. We release these models as part of our goal to help further research and development in Hebrew NLP. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Using Large Language Models to Automate Category and Trend Analysis of  Scientific Articles: An Application in Ophthalmology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16688  
**Abstract:** Purpose: In this paper, we present an automated method for article classification, leveraging the power of Large Language Models (LLM). The primary focus is on the field of ophthalmology, but the model is extendable to other fields. Methods: We have developed a model based on Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques, including advanced LLMs, to process and analyze the textual content of scientific papers. Specifically, we have employed zero-shot learning (ZSL) LLM models and compared against Bidirectional and Auto-Regressive Transformers (BART) and its variants, and Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), and its variant such as distilBERT, SciBERT, PubmedBERT, BioBERT. Results: The classification results demonstrate the effectiveness of LLMs in categorizing large number of ophthalmology papers without human intervention. Results: To evalute the LLMs, we compiled a dataset (RenD) of 1000 ocular disease-related articles, which were expertly annotated by a panel of six specialists into 15 distinct categories. The model achieved mean accuracy of 0.86 and mean F1 of 0.85 based on the RenD dataset. Conclusion: The proposed framework achieves notable improvements in both accuracy and efficiency. Its application in the domain of ophthalmology showcases its potential for knowledge organization and retrieval in other domains too. We performed trend analysis that enables the researchers and clinicians to easily categorize and retrieve relevant papers, saving time and effort in literature review and information gathering as well as identification of emerging scientific trends within different disciplines. Moreover, the extendibility of the model to other scientific fields broadens its impact in facilitating research and trend analysis across diverse disciplines. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** ViLTA: Enhancing Vision-Language Pre-training through Textual  Augmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16689  
**Abstract:** Vision-language pre-training (VLP) methods are blossoming recently, and its crucial goal is to jointly learn visual and textual features via a transformer-based architecture, demonstrating promising improvements on a variety of vision-language tasks. Prior arts usually focus on how to align visual and textual features, but strategies for improving the robustness of model and speeding up model convergence are left insufficiently explored. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Terrain Diffusion Network: Climatic-Aware Terrain Generation with  Geological Sketch Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16725  
**Abstract:** Sketch-based terrain generation seeks to create realistic landscapes for virtual environments in various applications such as computer games, animation and virtual reality. Recently, deep learning based terrain generation has emerged, notably the ones based on generative adversarial networks (GAN). However, these methods often struggle to fulfill the requirements of flexible user control and maintain generative diversity for realistic terrain. Therefore, we propose a novel diffusion-based method, namely terrain diffusion network (TDN), which actively incorporates user guidance for enhanced controllability, taking into account terrain features like rivers, ridges, basins, and peaks. Instead of adhering to a conventional monolithic denoising process, which often compromises the fidelity of terrain details or the alignment with user control, a multi-level denoising scheme is proposed to generate more realistic terrains by taking into account fine-grained details, particularly those related to climatic patterns influenced by erosion and tectonic activities. Specifically, three terrain synthesisers are designed for structural, intermediate, and fine-grained level denoising purposes, which allow each synthesiser concentrate on a distinct terrain aspect. Moreover, to maximise the efficiency of our TDN, we further introduce terrain and sketch latent spaces for the synthesizers with pre-trained terrain autoencoders. Comprehensive experiments on a new dataset constructed from NASA Topology Images clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method, achieving the state-of-the-art performance. Our code and dataset will be publicly available. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Towards High-Fidelity Text-Guided 3D Face Generation and Manipulation  Using only Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16758  
**Abstract:** Generating 3D faces from textual descriptions has a multitude of applications, such as gaming, movie, and robotics. Recent progresses have demonstrated the success of unconditional 3D face generation and text-to-3D shape generation. However, due to the limited text-3D face data pairs, text-driven 3D face generation remains an open problem. In this paper, we propose a text-guided 3D faces generation method, refer as TG-3DFace, for generating realistic 3D faces using text guidance. Specifically, we adopt an unconditional 3D face generation framework and equip it with text conditions, which learns the text-guided 3D face generation with only text-2D face data. On top of that, we propose two text-to-face cross-modal alignment techniques, including the global contrastive learning and the fine-grained alignment module, to facilitate high semantic consistency between generated 3D faces and input texts. Besides, we present directional classifier guidance during the inference process, which encourages creativity for out-of-domain generations. Compared to the existing methods, TG-3DFace creates more realistic and aesthetically pleasing 3D faces, boosting 9% multi-view consistency (MVIC) over Latent3D. The rendered face images generated by TG-3DFace achieve higher FID and CLIP score than text-to-2D face/image generation models, demonstrating our superiority in generating realistic and semantic-consistent textures. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Ladder-of-Thought: Using Knowledge as Steps to Elevate Stance Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16763  
**Abstract:** Chain-of-Thought Prompting (CoT) reinforces the reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) through the generation of intermediate rationales. However, these enhancements predominantly benefit large-scale models, leaving small LMs without significant performance improvements when directly applying CoT. Despite the advanced reasoning capabilities of LLMs, CoT relies primarily on their pre-trained internal knowledge. The external knowledge that is previously unknown to the model remains unexploited. This omission becomes pronounced in tasks such as stance detection, where the external background knowledge plays a pivotal role. Additionally, the large-scale architecture of LLMs inevitably present efficiency challenges during deployment. To address these challenges, we introduce the Ladder-of-Thought (LoT) for stance detection. Grounded in a dual-phase Cascaded Optimization framework, LoT directs the model to incorporate high-quality external knowledge, enhancing the intermediate rationales it generates. These bolstered rationales subsequently serve as the foundation for more precise predictions - akin to how a ladder facilitates reaching elevated goals. LoT achieves a balance between efficiency and accuracy, making it an adaptable and efficient framework for stance detection. Our empirical evaluations underscore LoT's effectiveness, marking a 16% improvement over ChatGPT and a 10% enhancement compared to ChatGPT with CoT. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Toward Automatically Completing GitHub Workflows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16774  
**Abstract:** Continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) are nowadays at the core of software development. Their benefits come at the cost of setting up and maintaining the CI/CD pipeline, which requires knowledge and skills often orthogonal to those entailed in other software-related tasks. While several recommender systems have been proposed to support developers across a variety of tasks, little automated support is available when it comes to setting up and maintaining CI/CD pipelines. We present GH-WCOM (GitHub Workflow COMpletion), a Transformer-based approach supporting developers in writing a specific type of CI/CD pipelines, namely GitHub workflows. To deal with such a task, we designed an abstraction process to help the learning of the transformer while still making GH-WCOM able to recommend very peculiar workflow elements such as tool options and scripting elements. Our empirical study shows that GH-WCOM provides up to 34.23% correct predictions, and the model's confidence is a reliable proxy for the recommendations' correctness likelihood. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Ref-Diff: Zero-shot Referring Image Segmentation with Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16777  
**Abstract:** Zero-shot referring image segmentation is a challenging task because it aims to find an instance segmentation mask based on the given referring descriptions, without training on this type of paired data. Current zero-shot methods mainly focus on using pre-trained discriminative models (e.g., CLIP). However, we have observed that generative models (e.g., Stable Diffusion) have potentially understood the relationships between various visual elements and text descriptions, which are rarely investigated in this task. In this work, we introduce a novel Referring Diffusional segmentor (Ref-Diff) for this task, which leverages the fine-grained multi-modal information from generative models. We demonstrate that without a proposal generator, a generative model alone can achieve comparable performance to existing SOTA weakly-supervised models. When we combine both generative and discriminative models, our Ref-Diff outperforms these competing methods by a significant margin. This indicates that generative models are also beneficial for this task and can complement discriminative models for better referring segmentation. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/kodenii/Ref-Diff. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Irregular Traffic Time Series Forecasting Based on Asynchronous  Spatio-Temporal Graph Convolutional Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16818  
**Abstract:** Accurate traffic forecasting at intersections governed by intelligent traffic signals is critical for the advancement of an effective intelligent traffic signal control system. However, due to the irregular traffic time series produced by intelligent intersections, the traffic forecasting task becomes much more intractable and imposes three major new challenges: 1) asynchronous spatial dependency, 2) irregular temporal dependency among traffic data, and 3) variable-length sequence to be predicted, which severely impede the performance of current traffic forecasting methods. To this end, we propose an Asynchronous Spatio-tEmporal graph convolutional nEtwoRk (ASeer) to predict the traffic states of the lanes entering intelligent intersections in a future time window. Specifically, by linking lanes via a traffic diffusion graph, we first propose an Asynchronous Graph Diffusion Network to model the asynchronous spatial dependency between the time-misaligned traffic state measurements of lanes. After that, to capture the temporal dependency within irregular traffic state sequence, a learnable personalized time encoding is devised to embed the continuous time for each lane. Then we propose a Transformable Time-aware Convolution Network that learns meta-filters to derive time-aware convolution filters with transformable filter sizes for efficient temporal convolution on the irregular sequence. Furthermore, a Semi-Autoregressive Prediction Network consisting of a state evolution unit and a semiautoregressive predictor is designed to effectively and efficiently predict variable-length traffic state sequences. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of ASeer in six metrics. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Towards Improving the Expressiveness of Singing Voice Synthesis with  BERT Derived Semantic Information  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16836  
**Abstract:** This paper presents an end-to-end high-quality singing voice synthesis (SVS) system that uses bidirectional encoder representation from Transformers (BERT) derived semantic embeddings to improve the expressiveness of the synthesized singing voice. Based on the main architecture of recently proposed VISinger, we put forward several specific designs for expressive singing voice synthesis. First, different from the previous SVS models, we use text representation of lyrics extracted from pre-trained BERT as additional input to the model. The representation contains information about semantics of the lyrics, which could help SVS system produce more expressive and natural voice. Second, we further introduce an energy predictor to stabilize the synthesized voice and model the wider range of energy variations that also contribute to the expressiveness of singing voice. Last but not the least, to attenuate the off-key issues, the pitch predictor is re-designed to predict the real to note pitch ratio. Both objective and subjective experimental results indicate that the proposed SVS system can produce singing voice with higher-quality outperforming VISinger. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Diffusion Models for Interferometric Satellite Aperture Radar  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16847  
**Abstract:** Probabilistic Diffusion Models (PDMs) have recently emerged as a very promising class of generative models, achieving high performance in natural image generation. However, their performance relative to non-natural images, like radar-based satellite data, remains largely unknown. Generating large amounts of synthetic (and especially labelled) satellite data is crucial to implement deep-learning approaches for the processing and analysis of (interferometric) satellite aperture radar data. Here, we leverage PDMs to generate several radar-based satellite image datasets. We show that PDMs succeed in generating images with complex and realistic structures, but that sampling time remains an issue. Indeed, accelerated sampling strategies, which work well on simple image datasets like MNIST, fail on our radar datasets. We provide a simple and versatile open-source https://github.com/thomaskerdreux/PDM_SAR_InSAR_generation to train, sample and evaluate PDMs using any dataset on a single GPU. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** TouchStone: Evaluating Vision-Language Models by Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16890  
**Abstract:** Large vision-language models (LVLMs) have recently witnessed rapid advancements, exhibiting a remarkable capacity for perceiving, understanding, and processing visual information by connecting visual receptor with large language models (LLMs). However, current assessments mainly focus on recognizing and reasoning abilities, lacking direct evaluation of conversational skills and neglecting visual storytelling abilities. In this paper, we propose an evaluation method that uses strong LLMs as judges to comprehensively evaluate the various abilities of LVLMs. Firstly, we construct a comprehensive visual dialogue dataset TouchStone, consisting of open-world images and questions, covering five major categories of abilities and 27 subtasks. This dataset not only covers fundamental recognition and comprehension but also extends to literary creation. Secondly, by integrating detailed image annotations we effectively transform the multimodal input content into a form understandable by LLMs. This enables us to employ advanced LLMs for directly evaluating the quality of the multimodal dialogue without requiring human intervention. Through validation, we demonstrate that powerful LVLMs, such as GPT-4, can effectively score dialogue quality by leveraging their textual capabilities alone, aligning with human preferences. We hope our work can serve as a touchstone for LVLMs' evaluation and pave the way for building stronger LVLMs. The evaluation code is available at https://github.com/OFA-Sys/TouchStone. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** GNFactor: Multi-Task Real Robot Learning with Generalizable Neural  Feature Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16891  
**Abstract:** It is a long-standing problem in robotics to develop agents capable of executing diverse manipulation tasks from visual observations in unstructured real-world environments. To achieve this goal, the robot needs to have a comprehensive understanding of the 3D structure and semantics of the scene. In this work, we present $\textbf{GNFactor}$, a visual behavior cloning agent for multi-task robotic manipulation with $\textbf{G}$eneralizable $\textbf{N}$eural feature $\textbf{F}$ields. GNFactor jointly optimizes a generalizable neural field (GNF) as a reconstruction module and a Perceiver Transformer as a decision-making module, leveraging a shared deep 3D voxel representation. To incorporate semantics in 3D, the reconstruction module utilizes a vision-language foundation model ($\textit{e.g.}$, Stable Diffusion) to distill rich semantic information into the deep 3D voxel. We evaluate GNFactor on 3 real robot tasks and perform detailed ablations on 10 RLBench tasks with a limited number of demonstrations. We observe a substantial improvement of GNFactor over current state-of-the-art methods in seen and unseen tasks, demonstrating the strong generalization ability of GNFactor. Our project website is https://yanjieze.com/GNFactor/ . 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Transformers as Support Vector Machines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16898  
**Abstract:** Since its inception in "Attention Is All You Need", transformer architecture has led to revolutionary advancements in NLP. The attention layer within the transformer admits a sequence of input tokens $X$ and makes them interact through pairwise similarities computed as softmax$(XQK^\top X^\top)$, where $(K,Q)$ are the trainable key-query parameters. In this work, we establish a formal equivalence between the optimization geometry of self-attention and a hard-margin SVM problem that separates optimal input tokens from non-optimal tokens using linear constraints on the outer-products of token pairs. This formalism allows us to characterize the implicit bias of 1-layer transformers optimized with gradient descent: (1) Optimizing the attention layer with vanishing regularization, parameterized by $(K,Q)$, converges in direction to an SVM solution minimizing the nuclear norm of the combined parameter $W=KQ^\top$. Instead, directly parameterizing by $W$ minimizes a Frobenius norm objective. We characterize this convergence, highlighting that it can occur toward locally-optimal directions rather than global ones. (2) Complementing this, we prove the local/global directional convergence of gradient descent under suitable geometric conditions. Importantly, we show that over-parameterization catalyzes global convergence by ensuring the feasibility of the SVM problem and by guaranteeing a benign optimization landscape devoid of stationary points. (3) While our theory applies primarily to linear prediction heads, we propose a more general SVM equivalence that predicts the implicit bias with nonlinear heads. Our findings are applicable to arbitrary datasets and their validity is verified via experiments. We also introduce several open problems and research directions. We believe these findings inspire the interpretation of transformers as a hierarchy of SVMs that separates and selects optimal tokens. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** InterDiff: Generating 3D Human-Object Interactions with Physics-Informed  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16905  
**Abstract:** This paper addresses a novel task of anticipating 3D human-object interactions (HOIs). Most existing research on HOI synthesis lacks comprehensive whole-body interactions with dynamic objects, e.g., often limited to manipulating small or static objects. Our task is significantly more challenging, as it requires modeling dynamic objects with various shapes, capturing whole-body motion, and ensuring physically valid interactions. To this end, we propose InterDiff, a framework comprising two key steps: (i) interaction diffusion, where we leverage a diffusion model to encode the distribution of future human-object interactions; (ii) interaction correction, where we introduce a physics-informed predictor to correct denoised HOIs in a diffusion step. Our key insight is to inject prior knowledge that the interactions under reference with respect to contact points follow a simple pattern and are easily predictable. Experiments on multiple human-object interaction datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for this task, capable of producing realistic, vivid, and remarkably long-term 3D HOI predictions. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** StyleInV: A Temporal Style Modulated Inversion Network for Unconditional  Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16909  
**Abstract:** Unconditional video generation is a challenging task that involves synthesizing high-quality videos that are both coherent and of extended duration. To address this challenge, researchers have used pretrained StyleGAN image generators for high-quality frame synthesis and focused on motion generator design. The motion generator is trained in an autoregressive manner using heavy 3D convolutional discriminators to ensure motion coherence during video generation. In this paper, we introduce a novel motion generator design that uses a learning-based inversion network for GAN. The encoder in our method captures rich and smooth priors from encoding images to latents, and given the latent of an initially generated frame as guidance, our method can generate smooth future latent by modulating the inversion encoder temporally. Our method enjoys the advantage of sparse training and naturally constrains the generation space of our motion generator with the inversion network guided by the initial frame, eliminating the need for heavy discriminators. Moreover, our method supports style transfer with simple fine-tuning when the encoder is paired with a pretrained StyleGAN generator. Extensive experiments conducted on various benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our method in generating long and high-resolution videos with decent single-frame quality and temporal consistency. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Robust Variational Physics-Informed Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16910  
**Abstract:** We introduce a Robust version of the Variational Physics-Informed Neural Networks (RVPINNs) to approximate the Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) solution. We start from a weak Petrov-Galerkin formulation of the problem, select a discrete test space, and define a quadratic loss functional as in VPINNs. Whereas in VPINNs the loss depends upon the selected basis functions of a given test space, herein we minimize a loss based on the residual in the discrete dual norm, which is independent of the test space's choice of test basis functions. We demonstrate that this loss is a reliable and efficient estimator of the true error in the energy norm. The proposed loss function requires computation of the Gram matrix inverse, similar to what occurs in traditional residual minimization methods. To validate our theoretical findings, we test the performance and robustness of our algorithm in several advection-dominated-diffusion problems in one spatial dimension. We conclude that RVPINNs is a robust method. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** PointLLM: Empowering Large Language Models to Understand Point Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16911  
**Abstract:** The unprecedented advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have created a profound impact on natural language processing but are yet to fully embrace the realm of 3D understanding. This paper introduces PointLLM, a preliminary effort to fill this gap, thereby enabling LLMs to understand point clouds and offering a new avenue beyond 2D visual data. PointLLM processes colored object point clouds with human instructions and generates contextually appropriate responses, illustrating its grasp of point clouds and common sense. Specifically, it leverages a point cloud encoder with a powerful LLM to effectively fuse geometric, appearance, and linguistic information. We collect a novel dataset comprising 660K simple and 70K complex point-text instruction pairs to enable a two-stage training strategy: initially aligning latent spaces and subsequently instruction-tuning the unified model. To rigorously evaluate our model's perceptual abilities and its generalization capabilities, we establish two benchmarks: Generative 3D Object Classification and 3D Object Captioning, assessed through three different methods, including human evaluation, GPT-4/ChatGPT evaluation, and traditional metrics. Experiment results show that PointLLM demonstrates superior performance over existing 2D baselines. Remarkably, in human-evaluated object captioning tasks, PointLLM outperforms human annotators in over 50% of the samples. Codes, datasets, and benchmarks are available at https://github.com/OpenRobotLab/PointLLM . 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** RetroBridge: Modeling Retrosynthesis with Markov Bridges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16212  
**Abstract:** Retrosynthesis planning is a fundamental challenge in chemistry which aims at designing reaction pathways from commercially available starting materials to a target molecule. Each step in multi-step retrosynthesis planning requires accurate prediction of possible precursor molecules given the target molecule and confidence estimates to guide heuristic search algorithms. We model single-step retrosynthesis planning as a distribution learning problem in a discrete state space. First, we introduce the Markov Bridge Model, a generative framework aimed to approximate the dependency between two intractable discrete distributions accessible via a finite sample of coupled data points. Our framework is based on the concept of a Markov bridge, a Markov process pinned at its endpoints. Unlike diffusion-based methods, our Markov Bridge Model does not need a tractable noise distribution as a sampling proxy and directly operates on the input product molecules as samples from the intractable prior distribution. We then address the retrosynthesis planning problem with our novel framework and introduce RetroBridge, a template-free retrosynthesis modeling approach that achieves state-of-the-art results on standard evaluation benchmarks. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** A Recycling Training Strategy for Medical Image Segmentation with  Diffusion Denoising Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16355  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models have found applications in image segmentation by generating segmented masks conditioned on images. Existing studies predominantly focus on adjusting model architecture or improving inference such as test-time sampling strategies. In this work, we focus on training strategy improvements and propose a novel recycling method. During each training step, a segmentation mask is first predicted given an image and a random noise. This predicted mask, replacing the conventional ground truth mask, is used for denoising task during training. This approach can be interpreted as aligning the training strategy with inference by eliminating the dependence on ground truth masks for generating noisy samples. Our proposed method significantly outperforms standard diffusion training, self-conditioning, and existing recycling strategies across multiple medical imaging data sets: muscle ultrasound, abdominal CT, prostate MR, and brain MR. This holds true for two widely adopted sampling strategies: denoising diffusion probabilistic model and denoising diffusion implicit model. Importantly, existing diffusion models often display a declining or unstable performance during inference, whereas our novel recycling consistently enhances or maintains performance. Furthermore, we show for the first time that, under a fair comparison with the same network architectures and computing budget, the proposed recycling-based diffusion models achieved on-par performance with non-diffusion-based supervised training. This paper summarises these quantitative results and discusses their values, with a fully reproducible JAX-based implementation, released at https://github.com/mathpluscode/ImgX-DiffSeg. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Precise Error Bounds for Numerical Approximations of Fractional HJB  EInquations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16434  
**Abstract:** We prove precise rates of convergence for monotone approximation schemes of fractional and nonlocal Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equations. We consider diffusion corrected difference-quadrature schemes from the literature and new approximations based on powers of discrete Laplacians, approximations which are (formally) fractional order and 2nd order methods. It is well-known in numerical analysis that convergence rates depend on the regularity of solutions, and here we consider cases with varying solution regularity: (i) Strongly degenerate problems with Lipschitz solutions, and (ii) weakly non-degenerate problems where we show that solutions have bounded fractional derivatives of order between 1 and 2. Our main results are optimal error estimates with convergence rates that capture precisely both the fractional order of the schemes and the fractional regularity of the solutions. For strongly degenerate equations, these rates improve earlier results. For weakly non-degenerate problems of order greater than one, the results are new. Here we show improved rates compared to the strongly degenerate case, rates that are always better than 1/2. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Towards Optimal Patch Size in Vision Transformers for Tumor Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16598  
**Abstract:** Detection of tumors in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) plays an essential role in the early diagnosis and treatment of liver cancer. Deep learning models backboned by fully convolutional neural networks (FCNNs) have become the dominant model for segmenting 3D computerized tomography (CT) scans. However, since their convolution layers suffer from limited kernel size, they are not able to capture long-range dependencies and global context. To tackle this restriction, vision transformers have been introduced to solve FCNN's locality of receptive fields. Although transformers can capture long-range features, their segmentation performance decreases with various tumor sizes due to the model sensitivity to the input patch size. While finding an optimal patch size improves the performance of vision transformer-based models on segmentation tasks, it is a time-consuming and challenging procedure. This paper proposes a technique to select the vision transformer's optimal input multi-resolution image patch size based on the average volume size of metastasis lesions. We further validated our suggested framework using a transfer-learning technique, demonstrating that the highest Dice similarity coefficient (DSC) performance was obtained by pre-training on training data with a larger tumour volume using the suggested ideal patch size and then training with a smaller one. We experimentally evaluate this idea through pre-training our model on a multi-resolution public dataset. Our model showed consistent and improved results when applied to our private multi-resolution mCRC dataset with a smaller average tumor volume. This study lays the groundwork for optimizing semantic segmentation of small objects using vision transformers. The implementation source code is available at:https://github.com/Ramtin-Mojtahedi/OVTPS. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Unsupervised CT Metal Artifact Reduction by Plugging Diffusion Priors in  Dual Domains  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16742  
**Abstract:** During the process of computed tomography (CT), metallic implants often cause disruptive artifacts in the reconstructed images, impeding accurate diagnosis. Several supervised deep learning-based approaches have been proposed for reducing metal artifacts (MAR). However, these methods heavily rely on training with simulated data, as obtaining paired metal artifact CT and clean CT data in clinical settings is challenging. This limitation can lead to decreased performance when applying these methods in clinical practice. Existing unsupervised MAR methods, whether based on learning or not, typically operate within a single domain, either in the image domain or the sinogram domain. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised MAR method based on the diffusion model, a generative model with a high capacity to represent data distributions. Specifically, we first train a diffusion model using CT images without metal artifacts. Subsequently, we iteratively utilize the priors embedded within the pre-trained diffusion model in both the sinogram and image domains to restore the degraded portions caused by metal artifacts. This dual-domain processing empowers our approach to outperform existing unsupervised MAR methods, including another MAR method based on the diffusion model, which we have qualitatively and quantitatively validated using synthetic datasets. Moreover, our method demonstrates superior visual results compared to both supervised and unsupervised methods on clinical datasets. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Prediction of Diblock Copolymer Morphology via Machine Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16886  
**Abstract:** A machine learning approach is presented to accelerate the computation of block polymer morphology evolution for large domains over long timescales. The strategy exploits the separation of characteristic times between coarse-grained particle evolution on the monomer scale and slow morphological evolution over mesoscopic scales. In contrast to empirical continuum models, the proposed approach learns stochastically driven defect annihilation processes directly from particle-based simulations. A UNet architecture that respects different boundary conditions is adopted, thereby allowing periodic and fixed substrate boundary conditions of arbitrary shape. Physical concepts are also introduced via the loss function and symmetries are incorporated via data augmentation. The model is validated using three different use cases. Explainable artificial intelligence methods are applied to visualize the morphology evolution over time. This approach enables the generation of large system sizes and long trajectories to investigate defect densities and their evolution under different types of confinement. As an application, we demonstrate the importance of accessing late-stage morphologies for understanding particle diffusion inside a single block. This work has implications for directed self-assembly and materials design in micro-electronics, battery materials, and membranes. 

