**ID:** 1  
**Title:** DevGPT: Studying Developer-ChatGPT Conversations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03914  
**Abstract:** The emergence of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT has disrupted the landscape of software development. Many studies are investigating the quality of responses generated by ChatGPT, the efficacy of various prompting techniques, and its comparative performance in programming contests, to name a few examples. Yet, we know very little about how ChatGPT is actually used by software developers. What questions do developers present to ChatGPT? What are the dynamics of these interactions? What is the backdrop against which these conversations are held, and how do the conversations feedback into the artifacts of their work? To close this gap, we introduce DevGPT, a curated dataset which encompasses 17,913 prompts and ChatGPT's responses including 11,751 code snippets, coupled with the corresponding software development artifacts -- ranging from source code, commits, issues, pull requests, to discussions and Hacker News threads -- to enable the analysis of the context and implications of these developer interactions with ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** C-CLIP: Contrastive Image-Text Encoders to Close the  Descriptive-Commentative Gap  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03921  
**Abstract:** The interplay between the image and comment on a social media post is one of high importance for understanding its overall message. Recent strides in multimodal embedding models, namely CLIP, have provided an avenue forward in relating image and text. However the current training regime for CLIP models is insufficient for matching content found on social media, regardless of site or language. Current CLIP training data is based on what we call ``descriptive'' text: text in which an image is merely described. This is something rarely seen on social media, where the vast majority of text content is ``commentative'' in nature. The captions provide commentary and broader context related to the image, rather than describing what is in it. Current CLIP models perform poorly on retrieval tasks where image-caption pairs display a commentative relationship. Closing this gap would be beneficial for several important application areas related to social media. For instance, it would allow groups focused on Open-Source Intelligence Operations (OSINT) to further aid efforts during disaster events, such as the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, by easily exposing data to non-technical users for discovery and analysis. In order to close this gap we demonstrate that training contrastive image-text encoders on explicitly commentative pairs results in large improvements in retrieval results, with the results extending across a variety of non-English languages. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** BluNF: Blueprint Neural Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03933  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have revolutionized scene novel view synthesis, offering visually realistic, precise, and robust implicit reconstructions. While recent approaches enable NeRF editing, such as object removal, 3D shape modification, or material property manipulation, the manual annotation prior to such edits makes the process tedious. Additionally, traditional 2D interaction tools lack an accurate sense of 3D space, preventing precise manipulation and editing of scenes. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach, called Blueprint Neural Field (BluNF), to address these editing issues. BluNF provides a robust and user-friendly 2D blueprint, enabling intuitive scene editing. By leveraging implicit neural representation, BluNF constructs a blueprint of a scene using prior semantic and depth information. The generated blueprint allows effortless editing and manipulation of NeRF representations. We demonstrate BluNF's editability through an intuitive click-and-change mechanism, enabling 3D manipulations, such as masking, appearance modification, and object removal. Our approach significantly contributes to visual content creation, paving the way for further research in this area. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** SimpleNeRF: Regularizing Sparse Input Neural Radiance Fields with  Simpler Solutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03955  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) show impressive performance for the photorealistic free-view rendering of scenes. However, NeRFs require dense sampling of images in the given scene, and their performance degrades significantly when only a sparse set of views are available. Researchers have found that supervising the depth estimated by the NeRF helps train it effectively with fewer views. The depth supervision is obtained either using classical approaches or neural networks pre-trained on a large dataset. While the former may provide only sparse supervision, the latter may suffer from generalization issues. As opposed to the earlier approaches, we seek to learn the depth supervision by designing augmented models and training them along with the NeRF. We design augmented models that encourage simpler solutions by exploring the role of positional encoding and view-dependent radiance in training the few-shot NeRF. The depth estimated by these simpler models is used to supervise the NeRF depth estimates. Since the augmented models can be inaccurate in certain regions, we design a mechanism to choose only reliable depth estimates for supervision. Finally, we add a consistency loss between the coarse and fine multi-layer perceptrons of the NeRF to ensure better utilization of hierarchical sampling. We achieve state-of-the-art view-synthesis performance on two popular datasets by employing the above regularizations. The source code for our model can be found on our project page: https://nagabhushansn95.github.io/publications/2023/SimpleNeRF.html 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** DBsurf: A Discrepancy Based Method for Discrete Stochastic Gradient  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03974  
**Abstract:** Computing gradients of an expectation with respect to the distributional parameters of a discrete distribution is a problem arising in many fields of science and engineering. Typically, this problem is tackled using Reinforce, which frames the problem of gradient estimation as a Monte Carlo simulation. Unfortunately, the Reinforce estimator is especially sensitive to discrepancies between the true probability distribution and the drawn samples, a common issue in low sampling regimes that results in inaccurate gradient estimates. In this paper, we introduce DBsurf, a reinforce-based estimator for discrete distributions that uses a novel sampling procedure to reduce the discrepancy between the samples and the actual distribution. To assess the performance of our estimator, we subject it to a diverse set of tasks. Among existing estimators, DBsurf attains the lowest variance in a least squares problem commonly used in the literature for benchmarking. Furthermore, DBsurf achieves the best results for training variational auto-encoders (VAE) across different datasets and sampling setups. Finally, we apply DBsurf to build a simple and efficient Neural Architecture Search (NAS) algorithm with state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Separable Self and Mixed Attention Transformers for Efficient Object  Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03979  
**Abstract:** The deployment of transformers for visual object tracking has shown state-of-the-art results on several benchmarks. However, the transformer-based models are under-utilized for Siamese lightweight tracking due to the computational complexity of their attention blocks. This paper proposes an efficient self and mixed attention transformer-based architecture for lightweight tracking. The proposed backbone utilizes the separable mixed attention transformers to fuse the template and search regions during feature extraction to generate superior feature encoding. Our prediction head performs global contextual modeling of the encoded features by leveraging efficient self-attention blocks for robust target state estimation. With these contributions, the proposed lightweight tracker deploys a transformer-based backbone and head module concurrently for the first time. Our ablation study testifies to the effectiveness of the proposed combination of backbone and head modules. Simulations show that our Separable Self and Mixed Attention-based Tracker, SMAT, surpasses the performance of related lightweight trackers on GOT10k, TrackingNet, LaSOT, NfS30, UAV123, and AVisT datasets, while running at 37 fps on CPU, 158 fps on GPU, and having 3.8M parameters. For example, it significantly surpasses the closely related trackers E.T.Track and MixFormerV2-S on GOT10k-test by a margin of 7.9% and 5.8%, respectively, in the AO metric. The tracker code and model is available at https://github.com/goutamyg/SMAT 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Multimodal Transformer for Material Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04001  
**Abstract:** Leveraging information across diverse modalities is known to enhance performance on multimodal segmentation tasks. However, effectively fusing information from different modalities remains challenging due to the unique characteristics of each modality. In this paper, we propose a novel fusion strategy that can effectively fuse information from different combinations of four different modalities: RGB, Angle of Linear Polarization (AoLP), Degree of Linear Polarization (DoLP) and Near-Infrared (NIR). We also propose a new model named Multi-Modal Segmentation Transformer (MMSFormer) that incorporates the proposed fusion strategy to perform multimodal material segmentation. MMSFormer achieves 52.05% mIoU outperforming the current state-of-the-art on Multimodal Material Segmentation (MCubeS) dataset. For instance, our method provides significant improvement in detecting gravel (+10.4%) and human (+9.1%) classes. Ablation studies show that different modules in the fusion block are crucial for overall model performance. Furthermore, our ablation studies also highlight the capacity of different input modalities to improve performance in the identification of different types of materials. The code and pretrained models will be made available at https://github.com/csiplab/MMSFormer. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** An explicit multi-time stepping algorithm for multi-time scale coupling  problems in SPH  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04010  
**Abstract:** Simulating physical problems involving multi-time scale coupling is challenging due to the need of solving these multi-time scale processes simultaneously. In response to this challenge, this paper proposed an explicit multi-time step algorithm coupled with a solid dynamic relaxation scheme. The explicit scheme simplifies the equation system in contrast to the implicit scheme, while the multi-time step algorithm allows the equations of different physical processes to be solved under different time step sizes. Furthermore, an implicit viscous damping relaxation technique is applied to significantly reduce computational iterations required to achieve equilibrium in the comparatively fast solid response process. To validate the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed algorithm, two distinct scenarios, i.e., a nonlinear hardening bar stretching and a fluid diffusion coupled with Nafion membrane flexure, are simulated. The results show good agreement with experimental data and results from other numerical methods, and the simulation time is reduced firstly by independently addressing different processes with the multi-time step algorithm and secondly decreasing solid dynamic relaxation time through the incorporation of damping techniques. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Multiple Representation Transfer from Large Language Models to  End-to-End ASR Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04031  
**Abstract:** Transferring the knowledge of large language models (LLMs) is a promising technique to incorporate linguistic knowledge into end-to-end automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems. However, existing works only transfer a single representation of LLM (e.g. the last layer of pretrained BERT), while the representation of a text is inherently non-unique and can be obtained variously from different layers, contexts and models. In this work, we explore a wide range of techniques to obtain and transfer multiple representations of LLMs into a transducer-based ASR system. While being conceptually simple, we show that transferring multiple representations of LLMs can be an effective alternative to transferring only a single representation. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** S-Adapter: Generalizing Vision Transformer for Face Anti-Spoofing with  Statistical Tokens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04038  
**Abstract:** Face Anti-Spoofing (FAS) aims to detect malicious attempts to invade a face recognition system by presenting spoofed faces. State-of-the-art FAS techniques predominantly rely on deep learning models but their cross-domain generalization capabilities are often hindered by the domain shift problem, which arises due to different distributions between training and testing data. In this study, we develop a generalized FAS method under the Efficient Parameter Transfer Learning (EPTL) paradigm, where we adapt the pre-trained Vision Transformer models for the FAS task. During training, the adapter modules are inserted into the pre-trained ViT model, and the adapters are updated while other pre-trained parameters remain fixed. We find the limitations of previous vanilla adapters in that they are based on linear layers, which lack a spoofing-aware inductive bias and thus restrict the cross-domain generalization. To address this limitation and achieve cross-domain generalized FAS, we propose a novel Statistical Adapter (S-Adapter) that gathers local discriminative and statistical information from localized token histograms. To further improve the generalization of the statistical tokens, we propose a novel Token Style Regularization (TSR), which aims to reduce domain style variance by regularizing Gram matrices extracted from tokens across different domains. Our experimental results demonstrate that our proposed S-Adapter and TSR provide significant benefits in both zero-shot and few-shot cross-domain testing, outperforming state-of-the-art methods on several benchmark tests. We will release the source code upon acceptance. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Curve Your Attention: Mixed-Curvature Transformers for Graph  Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04082  
**Abstract:** Real-world graphs naturally exhibit hierarchical or cyclical structures that are unfit for the typical Euclidean space. While there exist graph neural networks that leverage hyperbolic or spherical spaces to learn representations that embed such structures more accurately, these methods are confined under the message-passing paradigm, making the models vulnerable against side-effects such as oversmoothing and oversquashing. More recent work have proposed global attention-based graph Transformers that can easily model long-range interactions, but their extensions towards non-Euclidean geometry are yet unexplored. To bridge this gap, we propose Fully Product-Stereographic Transformer, a generalization of Transformers towards operating entirely on the product of constant curvature spaces. When combined with tokenized graph Transformers, our model can learn the curvature appropriate for the input graph in an end-to-end fashion, without the need of additional tuning on different curvature initializations. We also provide a kernelized approach to non-Euclidean attention, which enables our model to run in time and memory cost linear to the number of nodes and edges while respecting the underlying geometry. Experiments on graph reconstruction and node classification demonstrate the benefits of generalizing Transformers to the non-Euclidean domain. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Towards Efficient SDRTV-to-HDRTV by Learning from Image Formation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04084  
**Abstract:** Modern displays are capable of rendering video content with high dynamic range (HDR) and wide color gamut (WCG). However, the majority of available resources are still in standard dynamic range (SDR). As a result, there is significant value in transforming existing SDR content into the HDRTV standard. In this paper, we define and analyze the SDRTV-to-HDRTV task by modeling the formation of SDRTV/HDRTV content. Our analysis and observations indicate that a naive end-to-end supervised training pipeline suffers from severe gamut transition errors. To address this issue, we propose a novel three-step solution pipeline called HDRTVNet++, which includes adaptive global color mapping, local enhancement, and highlight refinement. The adaptive global color mapping step uses global statistics as guidance to perform image-adaptive color mapping. A local enhancement network is then deployed to enhance local details. Finally, we combine the two sub-networks above as a generator and achieve highlight consistency through GAN-based joint training. Our method is primarily designed for ultra-high-definition TV content and is therefore effective and lightweight for processing 4K resolution images. We also construct a dataset using HDR videos in the HDR10 standard, named HDRTV1K that contains 1235 and 117 training images and 117 testing images, all in 4K resolution. Besides, we select five metrics to evaluate the results of SDRTV-to-HDRTV algorithms. Our final results demonstrate state-of-the-art performance both quantitatively and visually. The code, model and dataset are available at https://github.com/xiaom233/HDRTVNet-plus. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Weakly Supervised Point Clouds Transformer for 3D Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04105  
**Abstract:** The annotation of 3D datasets is required for semantic-segmentation and object detection in scene understanding. In this paper we present a framework for the weakly supervision of a point clouds transformer that is used for 3D object detection. The aim is to decrease the required amount of supervision needed for training, as a result of the high cost of annotating a 3D datasets. We propose an Unsupervised Voting Proposal Module, which learns randomly preset anchor points and uses voting network to select prepared anchor points of high quality. Then it distills information into student and teacher network. In terms of student network, we apply ResNet network to efficiently extract local characteristics. However, it also can lose much global information. To provide the input which incorporates the global and local information as the input of student networks, we adopt the self-attention mechanism of transformer to extract global features, and the ResNet layers to extract region proposals. The teacher network supervises the classification and regression of the student network using the pre-trained model on ImageNet. On the challenging KITTI datasets, the experimental results have achieved the highest level of average precision compared with the most recent weakly supervised 3D object detectors. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** From Text to Mask: Localizing Entities Using the Attention of  Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04109  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have revolted the field of text-to-image generation recently. The unique way of fusing text and image information contributes to their remarkable capability of generating highly text-related images. From another perspective, these generative models imply clues about the precise correlation between words and pixels. In this work, a simple but effective method is proposed to utilize the attention mechanism in the denoising network of text-to-image diffusion models. Without re-training nor inference-time optimization, the semantic grounding of phrases can be attained directly. We evaluate our method on Pascal VOC 2012 and Microsoft COCO 2014 under weakly-supervised semantic segmentation setting and our method achieves superior performance to prior methods. In addition, the acquired word-pixel correlation is found to be generalizable for the learned text embedding of customized generation methods, requiring only a few modifications. To validate our discovery, we introduce a new practical task called "personalized referring image segmentation" with a new dataset. Experiments in various situations demonstrate the advantages of our method compared to strong baselines on this task. In summary, our work reveals a novel way to extract the rich multi-modal knowledge hidden in diffusion models for segmentation. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** NESTLE: a No-Code Tool for Statistical Analysis of Legal Corpus  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04146  
**Abstract:** The statistical analysis of large scale legal corpus can provide valuable legal insights. For such analysis one needs to (1) select a subset of the corpus using document retrieval tools, (2) structuralize text using information extraction (IE) systems, and (3) visualize the data for the statistical analysis. Each process demands either specialized tools or programming skills whereas no comprehensive unified "no-code" tools have been available. Especially for IE, if the target information is not predefined in the ontology of the IE system, one needs to build their own system. Here we provide NESTLE, a no code tool for large-scale statistical analysis of legal corpus. With NESTLE, users can search target documents, extract information, and visualize the structured data all via the chat interface with accompanying auxiliary GUI for the fine-level control. NESTLE consists of three main components: a search engine, an end-to-end IE system, and a Large Language Model (LLM) that glues the whole components together and provides the chat interface. Powered by LLM and the end-to-end IE system, NESTLE can extract any type of information that has not been predefined in the IE system opening up the possibility of unlimited customizable statistical analysis of the corpus without writing a single line of code. The use of the custom end-to-end IE system also enables faster and low-cost IE on large scale corpus. We validate our system on 15 Korean precedent IE tasks and 3 legal text classification tasks from LEXGLUE. The comprehensive experiments reveal NESTLE can achieve GPT-4 comparable performance by training the internal IE module with 4 human-labeled, and 192 LLM-labeled examples. The detailed analysis provides the insight on the trade-off between accuracy, time, and cost in building such system. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Robot Localization and Mapping Final Report -- Sequential Adversarial  Learning for Self-Supervised Deep Visual Odometry  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04147  
**Abstract:** Visual odometry (VO) and SLAM have been using multi-view geometry via local structure from motion for decades. These methods have a slight disadvantage in challenging scenarios such as low-texture images, dynamic scenarios, etc. Meanwhile, use of deep neural networks to extract high level features is ubiquitous in computer vision. For VO, we can use these deep networks to extract depth and pose estimates using these high level features. The visual odometry task then can be modeled as an image generation task where the pose estimation is the by-product. This can also be achieved in a self-supervised manner, thereby eliminating the data (supervised) intensive nature of training deep neural networks. Although some works tried the similar approach [1], the depth and pose estimation in the previous works are vague sometimes resulting in accumulation of error (drift) along the trajectory. The goal of this work is to tackle these limitations of past approaches and to develop a method that can provide better depths and pose estimates. To address this, a couple of approaches are explored: 1) Modeling: Using optical flow and recurrent neural networks (RNN) in order to exploit spatio-temporal correlations which can provide more information to estimate depth. 2) Loss function: Generative adversarial network (GAN) [2] is deployed to improve the depth estimation (and thereby pose too), as shown in Figure 1. This additional loss term improves the realism in generated images and reduces artifacts. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Cross-Utterance Conditioned VAE for Speech Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04156  
**Abstract:** Speech synthesis systems powered by neural networks hold promise for multimedia production, but frequently face issues with producing expressive speech and seamless editing. In response, we present the Cross-Utterance Conditioned Variational Autoencoder speech synthesis (CUC-VAE S2) framework to enhance prosody and ensure natural speech generation. This framework leverages the powerful representational capabilities of pre-trained language models and the re-expression abilities of variational autoencoders (VAEs). The core component of the CUC-VAE S2 framework is the cross-utterance CVAE, which extracts acoustic, speaker, and textual features from surrounding sentences to generate context-sensitive prosodic features, more accurately emulating human prosody generation. We further propose two practical algorithms tailored for distinct speech synthesis applications: CUC-VAE TTS for text-to-speech and CUC-VAE SE for speech editing. The CUC-VAE TTS is a direct application of the framework, designed to generate audio with contextual prosody derived from surrounding texts. On the other hand, the CUC-VAE SE algorithm leverages real mel spectrogram sampling conditioned on contextual information, producing audio that closely mirrors real sound and thereby facilitating flexible speech editing based on text such as deletion, insertion, and replacement. Experimental results on the LibriTTS datasets demonstrate that our proposed models significantly enhance speech synthesis and editing, producing more natural and expressive speech. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Context-Aware Prompt Tuning for Vision-Language Model with  Dual-Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04158  
**Abstract:** Large-scale vision-language models (VLMs), e.g., CLIP, learn broad visual concepts from tedious training data, showing superb generalization ability. Amount of prompt learning methods have been proposed to efficiently adapt the VLMs to downstream tasks with only a few training samples. We introduce a novel method to improve the prompt learning of vision-language models by incorporating pre-trained large language models (LLMs), called Dual-Aligned Prompt Tuning (DuAl-PT). Learnable prompts, like CoOp, implicitly model the context through end-to-end training, which are difficult to control and interpret. While explicit context descriptions generated by LLMs, like GPT-3, can be directly used for zero-shot classification, such prompts are overly relying on LLMs and still underexplored in few-shot domains. With DuAl-PT, we propose to learn more context-aware prompts, benefiting from both explicit and implicit context modeling. To achieve this, we introduce a pre-trained LLM to generate context descriptions, and we encourage the prompts to learn from the LLM's knowledge by alignment, as well as the alignment between prompts and local image features. Empirically, DuAl-PT achieves superior performance on 11 downstream datasets on few-shot recognition and base-to-new generalization. Hopefully, DuAl-PT can serve as a strong baseline. Code will be available. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** UQ at #SMM4H 2023: ALEX for Public Health Analysis with Social Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04213  
**Abstract:** As social media becomes increasingly popular, more and more activities related to public health emerge. Current techniques for public health analysis involve popular models such as BERT and large language models (LLMs). However, the costs of training in-domain LLMs for public health are especially expensive. Furthermore, such kinds of in-domain datasets from social media are generally imbalanced. To tackle these challenges, the data imbalance issue can be overcome by data augmentation and balanced training. Moreover, the ability of the LLMs can be effectively utilized by prompting the model properly. In this paper, a novel ALEX framework is proposed to improve the performance of public health analysis on social media by adopting an LLMs explanation mechanism. Results show that our ALEX model got the best performance among all submissions in both Task 2 and Task 4 with a high score in Task 1 in Social Media Mining for Health 2023 (SMM4H)[1]. Our code has been released at https:// github.com/YanJiangJerry/ALEX. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Long-Range Correlation Supervision for Land-Cover Classification from  Remote Sensing Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04225  
**Abstract:** Long-range dependency modeling has been widely considered in modern deep learning based semantic segmentation methods, especially those designed for large-size remote sensing images, to compensate the intrinsic locality of standard convolutions. However, in previous studies, the long-range dependency, modeled with an attention mechanism or transformer model, has been based on unsupervised learning, instead of explicit supervision from the objective ground truth. In this paper, we propose a novel supervised long-range correlation method for land-cover classification, called the supervised long-range correlation network (SLCNet), which is shown to be superior to the currently used unsupervised strategies. In SLCNet, pixels sharing the same category are considered highly correlated and those having different categories are less relevant, which can be easily supervised by the category consistency information available in the ground truth semantic segmentation map. Under such supervision, the recalibrated features are more consistent for pixels of the same category and more discriminative for pixels of other categories, regardless of their proximity. To complement the detailed information lacking in the global long-range correlation, we introduce an auxiliary adaptive receptive field feature extraction module, parallel to the long-range correlation module in the encoder, to capture finely detailed feature representations for multi-size objects in multi-scale remote sensing images. In addition, we apply multi-scale side-output supervision and a hybrid loss function as local and global constraints to further boost the segmentation accuracy. Experiments were conducted on three remote sensing datasets. Compared with the advanced segmentation methods from the computer vision, medicine, and remote sensing communities, the SLCNet achieved a state-of-the-art performance on all the datasets. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** From Sparse to Dense: GPT-4 Summarization with Chain of Density  Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04269  
**Abstract:** Selecting the ``right'' amount of information to include in a summary is a difficult task. A good summary should be detailed and entity-centric without being overly dense and hard to follow. To better understand this tradeoff, we solicit increasingly dense GPT-4 summaries with what we refer to as a ``Chain of Density'' (CoD) prompt. Specifically, GPT-4 generates an initial entity-sparse summary before iteratively incorporating missing salient entities without increasing the length. Summaries generated by CoD are more abstractive, exhibit more fusion, and have less of a lead bias than GPT-4 summaries generated by a vanilla prompt. We conduct a human preference study on 100 CNN DailyMail articles and find that that humans prefer GPT-4 summaries that are more dense than those generated by a vanilla prompt and almost as dense as human written summaries. Qualitative analysis supports the notion that there exists a tradeoff between informativeness and readability. 500 annotated CoD summaries, as well as an extra 5,000 unannotated summaries, are freely available on HuggingFace (https://huggingface.co/datasets/griffin/chain_of_density). 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Fuzzy Fingerprinting Transformer Language-Models for Emotion Recognition  in Conversations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04292  
**Abstract:** Fuzzy Fingerprints have been successfully used as an interpretable text classification technique, but, like most other techniques, have been largely surpassed in performance by Large Pre-trained Language Models, such as BERT or RoBERTa. These models deliver state-of-the-art results in several Natural Language Processing tasks, namely Emotion Recognition in Conversations (ERC), but suffer from the lack of interpretability and explainability. In this paper, we propose to combine the two approaches to perform ERC, as a means to obtain simpler and more interpretable Large Language Models-based classifiers. We propose to feed the utterances and their previous conversational turns to a pre-trained RoBERTa, obtaining contextual embedding utterance representations, that are then supplied to an adapted Fuzzy Fingerprint classification module. We validate our approach on the widely used DailyDialog ERC benchmark dataset, in which we obtain state-of-the-art level results using a much lighter model. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** FIMO: A Challenge Formal Dataset for Automated Theorem Proving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04295  
**Abstract:** We present FIMO, an innovative dataset comprising formal mathematical problem statements sourced from the International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) Shortlisted Problems. Designed to facilitate advanced automated theorem proving at the IMO level, FIMO is currently tailored for the Lean formal language. It comprises 149 formal problem statements, accompanied by both informal problem descriptions and their corresponding LaTeX-based informal proofs. Through initial experiments involving GPT-4, our findings underscore the existing limitations in current methodologies, indicating a substantial journey ahead before achieving satisfactory IMO-level automated theorem proving outcomes. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Encoding Multi-Domain Scientific Papers by Ensembling Multiple CLS  Tokens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04333  
**Abstract:** Many useful tasks on scientific documents, such as topic classification and citation prediction, involve corpora that span multiple scientific domains. Typically, such tasks are accomplished by representing the text with a vector embedding obtained from a Transformer's single CLS token. In this paper, we argue that using multiple CLS tokens could make a Transformer better specialize to multiple scientific domains. We present Multi2SPE: it encourages each of multiple CLS tokens to learn diverse ways of aggregating token embeddings, then sums them up together to create a single vector representation. We also propose our new multi-domain benchmark, Multi-SciDocs, to test scientific paper vector encoders under multi-domain settings. We show that Multi2SPE reduces error by up to 25 percent in multi-domain citation prediction, while requiring only a negligible amount of computation in addition to one BERT forward pass. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Learning from Power Signals: An Automated Approach to Electrical  Disturbance Identification Within a Power Transmission System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04361  
**Abstract:** As power quality becomes a higher priority in the electric utility industry, the amount of disturbance event data continues to grow. Utilities do not have the required personnel to analyze each event by hand. This work presents an automated approach for analyzing power quality events recorded by digital fault recorders and power quality monitors operating within a power transmission system. The automated approach leverages rule-based analytics to examine the time and frequency domain characteristics of the voltage and current signals. Customizable thresholds are set to categorize each disturbance event. The events analyzed within this work include various faults, motor starting, and incipient instrument transformer failure. Analytics for fourteen different event types have been developed. The analytics were tested on 160 signal files and yielded an accuracy of ninety-nine percent. Continuous, nominal signal data analysis is performed using an approach coined as the cyclic histogram. The cyclic histogram process will be integrated into the digital fault recorders themselves to facilitate the detection of subtle signal variations that are too small to trigger a disturbance event and that can occur over hours or days. In addition to reducing memory requirements by a factor of 320, it is anticipated that cyclic histogram processing will aid in identifying incipient events and identifiers. This project is expected to save engineers time by automating the classification of disturbance events and increase the reliability of the transmission system by providing near real time detection and identification of disturbances as well as prevention of problems before they occur. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** CNN Injected Transformer for Image Exposure Correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04366  
**Abstract:** Capturing images with incorrect exposure settings fails to deliver a satisfactory visual experience. Only when the exposure is properly set, can the color and details of the images be appropriately preserved. Previous exposure correction methods based on convolutions often produce exposure deviation in images as a consequence of the restricted receptive field of convolutional kernels. This issue arises because convolutions are not capable of capturing long-range dependencies in images accurately. To overcome this challenge, we can apply the Transformer to address the exposure correction problem, leveraging its capability in modeling long-range dependencies to capture global representation. However, solely relying on the window-based Transformer leads to visually disturbing blocking artifacts due to the application of self-attention in small patches. In this paper, we propose a CNN Injected Transformer (CIT) to harness the individual strengths of CNN and Transformer simultaneously. Specifically, we construct the CIT by utilizing a window-based Transformer to exploit the long-range interactions among different regions in the entire image. Within each CIT block, we incorporate a channel attention block (CAB) and a half-instance normalization block (HINB) to assist the window-based self-attention to acquire the global statistics and refine local features. In addition to the hybrid architecture design for exposure correction, we apply a set of carefully formulated loss functions to improve the spatial coherence and rectify potential color deviations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our image exposure correction method outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in terms of both quantitative and qualitative metrics. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** MoEController: Instruction-based Arbitrary Image Manipulation with  Mixture-of-Expert Controllers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04372  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-model-based text-guided image generation has recently made astounding progress, producing fascinating results in open-domain image manipulation tasks. Few models, however, currently have complete zero-shot capabilities for both global and local image editing due to the complexity and diversity of image manipulation tasks. In this work, we propose a method with a mixture-of-expert (MOE) controllers to align the text-guided capacity of diffusion models with different kinds of human instructions, enabling our model to handle various open-domain image manipulation tasks with natural language instructions. First, we use large language models (ChatGPT) and conditional image synthesis models (ControlNet) to generate a large number of global image transfer dataset in addition to the instruction-based local image editing dataset. Then, using an MOE technique and task-specific adaptation training on a large-scale dataset, our conditional diffusion model can edit images globally and locally. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach performs surprisingly well on various image manipulation tasks when dealing with open-domain images and arbitrary human instructions. Please refer to our project page: [https://oppo-mente-lab.github.io/moe_controller/] 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Language Prompt for Autonomous Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04379  
**Abstract:** A new trend in the computer vision community is to capture objects of interest following flexible human command represented by a natural language prompt. However, the progress of using language prompts in driving scenarios is stuck in a bottleneck due to the scarcity of paired prompt-instance data. To address this challenge, we propose the first object-centric language prompt set for driving scenes within 3D, multi-view, and multi-frame space, named NuPrompt. It expands Nuscenes dataset by constructing a total of 35,367 language descriptions, each referring to an average of 5.3 object tracks. Based on the object-text pairs from the new benchmark, we formulate a new prompt-based driving task, \ie, employing a language prompt to predict the described object trajectory across views and frames. Furthermore, we provide a simple end-to-end baseline model based on Transformer, named PromptTrack. Experiments show that our PromptTrack achieves impressive performance on NuPrompt. We hope this work can provide more new insights for the autonomous driving community. Dataset and Code will be made public at \href{https://github.com/wudongming97/Prompt4Driving}{https://github.com/wudongming97/Prompt4Driving}. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** MaskDiffusion: Boosting Text-to-Image Consistency with Conditional Mask  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04399  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in diffusion models have showcased their impressive capacity to generate visually striking images. Nevertheless, ensuring a close match between the generated image and the given prompt remains a persistent challenge. In this work, we identify that a crucial factor leading to the text-image mismatch issue is the inadequate cross-modality relation learning between the prompt and the output image. To better align the prompt and image content, we advance the cross-attention with an adaptive mask, which is conditioned on the attention maps and the prompt embeddings, to dynamically adjust the contribution of each text token to the image features. This mechanism explicitly diminishes the ambiguity in semantic information embedding from the text encoder, leading to a boost of text-to-image consistency in the synthesized images. Our method, termed MaskDiffusion, is training-free and hot-pluggable for popular pre-trained diffusion models. When applied to the latent diffusion models, our MaskDiffusion can significantly improve the text-to-image consistency with negligible computation overhead compared to the original diffusion models. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** DeformToon3D: Deformable 3D Toonification from Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04410  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we address the challenging problem of 3D toonification, which involves transferring the style of an artistic domain onto a target 3D face with stylized geometry and texture. Although fine-tuning a pre-trained 3D GAN on the artistic domain can produce reasonable performance, this strategy has limitations in the 3D domain. In particular, fine-tuning can deteriorate the original GAN latent space, which affects subsequent semantic editing, and requires independent optimization and storage for each new style, limiting flexibility and efficient deployment. To overcome these challenges, we propose DeformToon3D, an effective toonification framework tailored for hierarchical 3D GAN. Our approach decomposes 3D toonification into subproblems of geometry and texture stylization to better preserve the original latent space. Specifically, we devise a novel StyleField that predicts conditional 3D deformation to align a real-space NeRF to the style space for geometry stylization. Thanks to the StyleField formulation, which already handles geometry stylization well, texture stylization can be achieved conveniently via adaptive style mixing that injects information of the artistic domain into the decoder of the pre-trained 3D GAN. Due to the unique design, our method enables flexible style degree control and shape-texture-specific style swap. Furthermore, we achieve efficient training without any real-world 2D-3D training pairs but proxy samples synthesized from off-the-shelf 2D toonification models. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Create Your World: Lifelong Text-to-Image Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04430  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image generative models can produce diverse high-quality images of concepts with a text prompt, which have demonstrated excellent ability in image generation, image translation, etc. We in this work study the problem of synthesizing instantiations of a use's own concepts in a never-ending manner, i.e., create your world, where the new concepts from user are quickly learned with a few examples. To achieve this goal, we propose a Lifelong text-to-image Diffusion Model (L2DM), which intends to overcome knowledge "catastrophic forgetting" for the past encountered concepts, and semantic "catastrophic neglecting" for one or more concepts in the text prompt. In respect of knowledge "catastrophic forgetting", our L2DM framework devises a task-aware memory enhancement module and a elastic-concept distillation module, which could respectively safeguard the knowledge of both prior concepts and each past personalized concept. When generating images with a user text prompt, the solution to semantic "catastrophic neglecting" is that a concept attention artist module can alleviate the semantic neglecting from concept aspect, and an orthogonal attention module can reduce the semantic binding from attribute aspect. To the end, our model can generate more faithful image across a range of continual text prompts in terms of both qualitative and quantitative metrics, when comparing with the related state-of-the-art models. The code will be released at https://wenqiliang.github.io/. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Variations and Relaxations of Normalizing Flows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04433  
**Abstract:** Normalizing Flows (NFs) describe a class of models that express a complex target distribution as the composition of a series of bijective transformations over a simpler base distribution. By limiting the space of candidate transformations to diffeomorphisms, NFs enjoy efficient, exact sampling and density evaluation, enabling NFs to flexibly behave as both discriminative and generative models. Their restriction to diffeomorphisms, however, enforces that input, output and all intermediary spaces share the same dimension, limiting their ability to effectively represent target distributions with complex topologies. Additionally, in cases where the prior and target distributions are not homeomorphic, Normalizing Flows can leak mass outside of the support of the target. This survey covers a selection of recent works that combine aspects of other generative model classes, such as VAEs and score-based diffusion, and in doing so loosen the strict bijectivity constraints of NFs to achieve a balance of expressivity, training speed, sample efficiency and likelihood tractability. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** DrugChat: Towards Enabling ChatGPT-Like Capabilities on Drug Molecule  Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03907  
**Abstract:** A ChatGPT-like system for drug compounds could be a game-changer in pharmaceutical research, accelerating drug discovery, enhancing our understanding of structure-activity relationships, guiding lead optimization, aiding drug repurposing, reducing the failure rate, and streamlining clinical trials. In this work, we make an initial attempt towards enabling ChatGPT-like capabilities on drug molecule graphs, by developing a prototype system DrugChat. DrugChat works in a similar way as ChatGPT. Users upload a compound molecule graph and ask various questions about this compound. DrugChat will answer these questions in a multi-turn, interactive manner. The DrugChat system consists of a graph neural network (GNN), a large language model (LLM), and an adaptor. The GNN takes a compound molecule graph as input and learns a representation for this graph. The adaptor transforms the graph representation produced by the GNN into another representation that is acceptable to the LLM. The LLM takes the compound representation transformed by the adaptor and users' questions about this compound as inputs and generates answers. All these components are trained end-to-end. To train DrugChat, we collected instruction tuning datasets which contain 10,834 drug compounds and 143,517 question-answer pairs. The code and data is available at \url{https://github.com/UCSD-AI4H/drugchat} 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Evaluation of large language models for discovery of gene set function  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04019  
**Abstract:** Gene set analysis is a mainstay of functional genomics, but it relies on manually curated databases of gene functions that are incomplete and unaware of biological context. Here we evaluate the ability of OpenAI's GPT-4, a Large Language Model (LLM), to develop hypotheses about common gene functions from its embedded biomedical knowledge. We created a GPT-4 pipeline to label gene sets with names that summarize their consensus functions, substantiated by analysis text and citations. Benchmarking against named gene sets in the Gene Ontology, GPT-4 generated very similar names in 50% of cases, while in most remaining cases it recovered the name of a more general concept. In gene sets discovered in 'omics data, GPT-4 names were more informative than gene set enrichment, with supporting statements and citations that largely verified in human review. The ability to rapidly synthesize common gene functions positions LLMs as valuable functional genomics assistants. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Enhancing Hierarchical Transformers for Whole Brain Segmentation with  Intracranial Measurements Integration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.04071  
**Abstract:** Whole brain segmentation with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) enables the non-invasive measurement of brain regions, including total intracranial volume (TICV) and posterior fossa volume (PFV). Enhancing the existing whole brain segmentation methodology to incorporate intracranial measurements offers a heightened level of comprehensiveness in the analysis of brain structures. Despite its potential, the task of generalizing deep learning techniques for intracranial measurements faces data availability constraints due to limited manually annotated atlases encompassing whole brain and TICV/PFV labels. In this paper, we enhancing the hierarchical transformer UNesT for whole brain segmentation to achieve segmenting whole brain with 133 classes and TICV/PFV simultaneously. To address the problem of data scarcity, the model is first pretrained on 4859 T1-weighted (T1w) 3D volumes sourced from 8 different sites. These volumes are processed through a multi-atlas segmentation pipeline for label generation, while TICV/PFV labels are unavailable. Subsequently, the model is finetuned with 45 T1w 3D volumes from Open Access Series Imaging Studies (OASIS) where both 133 whole brain classes and TICV/PFV labels are available. We evaluate our method with Dice similarity coefficients(DSC). We show that our model is able to conduct precise TICV/PFV estimation while maintaining the 132 brain regions performance at a comparable level. Code and trained model are available at: https://github.com/MASILab/UNesT/wholebrainSeg. 

