**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Sumplete is Hard, Even with Two Different Numbers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07161  
**Abstract:** Sumplete is a logic puzzle famous for being developed by ChatGPT. The puzzle consists of a rectangular grid, with each cell containing a number. The player has to cross out some numbers such that the sum of uncrossed numbers in each row and column is equal to a given integer assigned to that row or column. In this paper, we prove that deciding a solvability of a given Sumplete puzzle is NP-complete, even if the grid contains only two different numbers. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Exploring Large Language Models for Ontology Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07172  
**Abstract:** This work investigates the applicability of recent generative Large Language Models (LLMs), such as the GPT series and Flan-T5, to ontology alignment for identifying concept equivalence mappings across ontologies. To test the zero-shot performance of Flan-T5-XXL and GPT-3.5-turbo, we leverage challenging subsets from two equivalence matching datasets of the OAEI Bio-ML track, taking into account concept labels and structural contexts. Preliminary findings suggest that LLMs have the potential to outperform existing ontology alignment systems like BERTMap, given careful framework and prompt design. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Diffusion models for audio semantic communication  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07195  
**Abstract:** Directly sending audio signals from a transmitter to a receiver across a noisy channel may absorb consistent bandwidth and be prone to errors when trying to recover the transmitted bits. On the contrary, the recent semantic communication approach proposes to send the semantics and then regenerate semantically consistent content at the receiver without exactly recovering the bitstream. In this paper, we propose a generative audio semantic communication framework that faces the communication problem as an inverse problem, therefore being robust to different corruptions. Our method transmits lower-dimensional representations of the audio signal and of the associated semantics to the receiver, which generates the corresponding signal with a particular focus on its meaning (i.e., the semantics) thanks to the conditional diffusion model at its core. During the generation process, the diffusion model restores the received information from multiple degradations at the same time including corruption noise and missing parts caused by the transmission over the noisy channel. We show that our framework outperforms competitors in a real-world scenario and with different channel conditions. Visit the project page to listen to samples and access the code: https://ispamm.github.io/diffusion-audio-semantic-communication/. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** EarthPT: a foundation model for Earth Observation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07207  
**Abstract:** We introduce EarthPT -- an Earth Observation (EO) pretrained transformer. EarthPT is a 700 million parameter decoding transformer foundation model trained in an autoregressive self-supervised manner and developed specifically with EO use-cases in mind. We demonstrate that EarthPT is an effective forecaster that can accurately predict future pixel-level surface reflectances across the 400-2300 nm range well into the future. For example, forecasts of the evolution of the Normalised Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) have a typical error of approximately 0.05 (over a natural range of -1 -> 1) at the pixel level over a five month test set horizon, out-performing simple phase-folded models based on historical averaging. We also demonstrate that embeddings learnt by EarthPT hold semantically meaningful information and could be exploited for downstream tasks such as highly granular, dynamic land use classification. Excitingly, we note that the abundance of EO data provides us with -- in theory -- quadrillions of training tokens. Therefore, if we assume that EarthPT follows neural scaling laws akin to those derived for Large Language Models (LLMs), there is currently no data-imposed limit to scaling EarthPT and other similar `Large Observation Models.' 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** In-Contextual Bias Suppression for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07251  
**Abstract:** Despite their impressive performance in a wide range of NLP tasks, Large Language Models (LLMs) have been reported to encode worrying-levels of gender bias. Prior work has proposed debiasing methods that require human labelled examples, data augmentation and fine-tuning of the LLMs, which are computationally costly. Moreover, one might not even have access to the internal parameters for performing debiasing such as in the case of commercially available LLMs such as GPT-4. To address this challenge we propose bias suppression, a novel alternative to debiasing that does not require access to model parameters. We show that text-based preambles, generated from manually designed templates covering counterfactual statements, can accurately suppress gender biases in LLMs. Moreover, we find that descriptive sentences for occupations can further suppress gender biases. Interestingly, we find that bias suppression has a minimal adverse effect on downstream task performance, while effectively mitigating the gender biases. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Mitigate Replication and Copying in Diffusion Models with Generalized  Caption and Dual Fusion Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07254  
**Abstract:** While diffusion models demonstrate a remarkable capability for generating high-quality images, their tendency to `replicate' training data raises privacy concerns. Although recent research suggests that this replication may stem from the insufficient generalization of training data captions and duplication of training images, effective mitigation strategies remain elusive. To address this gap, our paper first introduces a generality score that measures the caption generality and employ large language model (LLM) to generalize training captions. Subsequently, we leverage generalized captions and propose a novel dual fusion enhancement approach to mitigate the replication of diffusion models. Our empirical results demonstrate that our proposed methods can significantly reduce replication by 43.5% compared to the original diffusion model while maintaining the diversity and quality of generations. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Unbiased Face Synthesis With Diffusion Models: Are We There Yet?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07277  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models have achieved widespread popularity due to their unprecedented image generation capability. In particular, their ability to synthesize and modify human faces has spurred research into using generated face images in both training data augmentation and model performance assessments. In this paper, we study the efficacy and shortcomings of generative models in the context of face generation. Utilizing a combination of qualitative and quantitative measures, including embedding-based metrics and user studies, we present a framework to audit the characteristics of generated faces conditioned on a set of social attributes. We applied our framework on faces generated through state-of-the-art text-to-image diffusion models. We identify several limitations of face image generation that include faithfulness to the text prompt, demographic disparities, and distributional shifts. Furthermore, we present an analytical model that provides insights into how training data selection contributes to the performance of generative models. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** GAN-based Algorithm for Efficient Image Inpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07293  
**Abstract:** Global pandemic due to the spread of COVID-19 has post challenges in a new dimension on facial recognition, where people start to wear masks. Under such condition, the authors consider utilizing machine learning in image inpainting to tackle the problem, by complete the possible face that is originally covered in mask. In particular, autoencoder has great potential on retaining important, general features of the image as well as the generative power of the generative adversarial network (GAN). The authors implement a combination of the two models, context encoders and explain how it combines the power of the two models and train the model with 50,000 images of influencers faces and yields a solid result that still contains space for improvements. Furthermore, the authors discuss some shortcomings with the model, their possible improvements, as well as some area of study for future investigation for applicative perspective, as well as directions to further enhance and refine the model. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Sudden Drops in the Loss: Syntax Acquisition, Phase Transitions, and  Simplicity Bias in MLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07311  
**Abstract:** Most interpretability research in NLP focuses on understanding the behavior and features of a fully trained model. However, certain insights into model behavior may only be accessible by observing the trajectory of the training process. In this paper, we present a case study of syntax acquisition in masked language models (MLMs). Our findings demonstrate how analyzing the evolution of interpretable artifacts throughout training deepens our understanding of emergent behavior. In particular, we study Syntactic Attention Structure (SAS), a naturally emerging property of MLMs wherein specific Transformer heads tend to focus on specific syntactic relations. We identify a brief window in training when models abruptly acquire SAS and find that this window is concurrent with a steep drop in loss. Moreover, SAS precipitates the subsequent acquisition of linguistic capabilities. We then examine the causal role of SAS by introducing a regularizer to manipulate SAS during training, and demonstrate that SAS is necessary for the development of grammatical capabilities. We further find that SAS competes with other beneficial traits and capabilities during training, and that briefly suppressing SAS can improve model quality. These findings reveal a real-world example of the relationship between disadvantageous simplicity bias and interpretable breakthrough training dynamics. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** AudioSR: Versatile Audio Super-resolution at Scale  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07314  
**Abstract:** Audio super-resolution is a fundamental task that predicts high-frequency components for low-resolution audio, enhancing audio quality in digital applications. Previous methods have limitations such as the limited scope of audio types (e.g., music, speech) and specific bandwidth settings they can handle (e.g., 4kHz to 8kHz). In this paper, we introduce a diffusion-based generative model, AudioSR, that is capable of performing robust audio super-resolution on versatile audio types, including sound effects, music, and speech. Specifically, AudioSR can upsample any input audio signal within the bandwidth range of 2kHz to 16kHz to a high-resolution audio signal at 24kHz bandwidth with a sampling rate of 48kHz. Extensive objective evaluation on various audio super-resolution benchmarks demonstrates the strong result achieved by the proposed model. In addition, our subjective evaluation shows that AudioSR can acts as a plug-and-play module to enhance the generation quality of a wide range of audio generative models, including AudioLDM, Fastspeech2, and MusicGen. Our code and demo are available at https://audioldm.github.io/audiosr. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Traveling Words: A Geometric Interpretation of Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07315  
**Abstract:** Transformers have significantly advanced the field of natural language processing, but comprehending their internal mechanisms remains a challenge. In this paper, we introduce a novel geometric perspective that elucidates the inner mechanisms of transformer operations. Our primary contribution is illustrating how layer normalization confines the latent features to a hyper-sphere, subsequently enabling attention to mold the semantic representation of words on this surface. This geometric viewpoint seamlessly connects established properties such as iterative refinement and contextual embeddings. We validate our insights by probing a pre-trained 124M parameter GPT-2 model. Our findings reveal clear query-key attention patterns in early layers and build upon prior observations regarding the subject-specific nature of attention heads at deeper layers. Harnessing these geometric insights, we present an intuitive understanding of transformers, depicting them as processes that model the trajectory of word particles along the hyper-sphere. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** A posteriori error analysis of a positivity preserving scheme for the  power-law diffusion Keller-Segel model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07329  
**Abstract:** We study a finite volume scheme approximating a parabolic-elliptic Keller-Segel system with power law diffusion with exponent $\gamma \in [1,3]$ and periodic boundary conditions. We derive conditional a posteriori bounds for the error measured in the $L^\infty(0,T;H^1(\Omega))$ norm for the chemoattractant and by a quasi-norm-like quantity for the density. These results are based on stability estimates and suitable conforming reconstructions of the numerical solution. We perform numerical experiments showing that our error bounds are linear in mesh width and elucidating the behaviour of the error estimator under changes of $\gamma$. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Automated Assessment of Critical View of Safety in Laparoscopic  Cholecystectomy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07330  
**Abstract:** Cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal) is one of the most common procedures in the US, with more than 1.2M procedures annually. Compared with classical open cholecystectomy, laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is associated with significantly shorter recovery period, and hence is the preferred method. However, LC is also associated with an increase in bile duct injuries (BDIs), resulting in significant morbidity and mortality. The primary cause of BDIs from LCs is misidentification of the cystic duct with the bile duct. Critical view of safety (CVS) is the most effective of safety protocols, which is said to be achieved during the surgery if certain criteria are met. However, due to suboptimal understanding and implementation of CVS, the BDI rates have remained stable over the last three decades. In this paper, we develop deep-learning techniques to automate the assessment of CVS in LCs. An innovative aspect of our research is on developing specialized learning techniques by incorporating domain knowledge to compensate for the limited training data available in practice. In particular, our CVS assessment process involves a fusion of two segmentation maps followed by an estimation of a certain region of interest based on anatomical structures close to the gallbladder, and then finally determination of each of the three CVS criteria via rule-based assessment of structural information. We achieved a gain of over 11.8% in mIoU on relevant classes with our two-stream semantic segmentation approach when compared to a single-model baseline, and 1.84% in mIoU with our proposed Sobel loss function when compared to a Transformer-based baseline model. For CVS criteria, we achieved up to 16% improvement and, for the overall CVS assessment, we achieved 5% improvement in balanced accuracy compared to DeepCVS under the same experiment settings. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Beta quantile regression for robust estimation of uncertainty in the  presence of outliers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07374  
**Abstract:** Quantile Regression (QR) can be used to estimate aleatoric uncertainty in deep neural networks and can generate prediction intervals. Quantifying uncertainty is particularly important in critical applications such as clinical diagnosis, where a realistic assessment of uncertainty is essential in determining disease status and planning the appropriate treatment. The most common application of quantile regression models is in cases where the parametric likelihood cannot be specified. Although quantile regression is quite robust to outlier response observations, it can be sensitive to outlier covariate observations (features). Outlier features can compromise the performance of deep learning regression problems such as style translation, image reconstruction, and deep anomaly detection, potentially leading to misleading conclusions. To address this problem, we propose a robust solution for quantile regression that incorporates concepts from robust divergence. We compare the performance of our proposed method with (i) least trimmed quantile regression and (ii) robust regression based on the regularization of case-specific parameters in a simple real dataset in the presence of outlier. These methods have not been applied in a deep learning framework. We also demonstrate the applicability of the proposed method by applying it to a medical imaging translation task using diffusion models. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** EnCodecMAE: Leveraging neural codecs for universal audio representation  learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07391  
**Abstract:** The goal of universal audio representation learning is to obtain foundational models that can be used for a variety of downstream tasks involving speech, music or environmental sounds. To approach this problem, methods inspired by self-supervised models from NLP, like BERT, are often used and adapted to audio. These models rely on the discrete nature of text, hence adopting this type of approach for audio processing requires either a change in the learning objective or mapping the audio signal to a set of discrete classes. In this work, we explore the use of EnCodec, a neural audio codec, to generate discrete targets for learning an universal audio model based on a masked autoencoder (MAE). We evaluate this approach, which we call EncodecMAE, on a wide range of audio tasks spanning speech, music and environmental sounds, achieving performances comparable or better than leading audio representation models. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Semantic Adversarial Attacks via Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07398  
**Abstract:** Traditional adversarial attacks concentrate on manipulating clean examples in the pixel space by adding adversarial perturbations. By contrast, semantic adversarial attacks focus on changing semantic attributes of clean examples, such as color, context, and features, which are more feasible in the real world. In this paper, we propose a framework to quickly generate a semantic adversarial attack by leveraging recent diffusion models since semantic information is included in the latent space of well-trained diffusion models. Then there are two variants of this framework: 1) the Semantic Transformation (ST) approach fine-tunes the latent space of the generated image and/or the diffusion model itself; 2) the Latent Masking (LM) approach masks the latent space with another target image and local backpropagation-based interpretation methods. Additionally, the ST approach can be applied in either white-box or black-box settings. Extensive experiments are conducted on CelebA-HQ and AFHQ datasets, and our framework demonstrates great fidelity, generalizability, and transferability compared to other baselines. Our approaches achieve approximately 100% attack success rate in multiple settings with the best FID as 36.61. Code is available at https://github.com/steven202/semantic_adv_via_dm. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** HIGT: Hierarchical Interaction Graph-Transformer for Whole Slide Image  Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07400  
**Abstract:** In computation pathology, the pyramid structure of gigapixel Whole Slide Images (WSIs) has recently been studied for capturing various information from individual cell interactions to tissue microenvironments. This hierarchical structure is believed to be beneficial for cancer diagnosis and prognosis tasks. However, most previous hierarchical WSI analysis works (1) only characterize local or global correlations within the WSI pyramids and (2) use only unidirectional interaction between different resolutions, leading to an incomplete picture of WSI pyramids. To this end, this paper presents a novel Hierarchical Interaction Graph-Transformer (i.e., HIGT) for WSI analysis. With Graph Neural Network and Transformer as the building commons, HIGT can learn both short-range local information and long-range global representation of the WSI pyramids. Considering that the information from different resolutions is complementary and can benefit each other during the learning process, we further design a novel Bidirectional Interaction block to establish communication between different levels within the WSI pyramids. Finally, we aggregate both coarse-grained and fine-grained features learned from different levels together for slide-level prediction. We evaluate our methods on two public WSI datasets from TCGA projects, i.e., kidney carcinoma (KICA) and esophageal carcinoma (ESCA). Experimental results show that our HIGT outperforms both hierarchical and non-hierarchical state-of-the-art methods on both tumor subtyping and staging tasks. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Masked Diffusion with Task-awareness for Procedure Planning in  Instructional Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07409  
**Abstract:** A key challenge with procedure planning in instructional videos lies in how to handle a large decision space consisting of a multitude of action types that belong to various tasks. To understand real-world video content, an AI agent must proficiently discern these action types (e.g., pour milk, pour water, open lid, close lid, etc.) based on brief visual observation. Moreover, it must adeptly capture the intricate semantic relation of the action types and task goals, along with the variable action sequences. Recently, notable progress has been made via the integration of diffusion models and visual representation learning to address the challenge. However, existing models employ rudimentary mechanisms to utilize task information to manage the decision space. To overcome this limitation, we introduce a simple yet effective enhancement - a masked diffusion model. The introduced mask acts akin to a task-oriented attention filter, enabling the diffusion/denoising process to concentrate on a subset of action types. Furthermore, to bolster the accuracy of task classification, we harness more potent visual representation learning techniques. In particular, we learn a joint visual-text embedding, where a text embedding is generated by prompting a pre-trained vision-language model to focus on human actions. We evaluate the method on three public datasets and achieve state-of-the-art performance on multiple metrics. Code is available at https://github.com/ffzzy840304/Masked-PDPP. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Advancing Regular Language Reasoning in Linear Recurrent Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07412  
**Abstract:** In recent studies, linear recurrent neural networks (LRNNs) have achieved Transformer-level performance in natural language modeling and long-range modeling while offering rapid parallel training and constant inference costs. With the resurged interest in LRNNs, we study whether they can learn the hidden rules in training sequences, such as the grammatical structures of regular language. We theoretically analyze some existing LRNNs and discover their limitations on regular language. Motivated by the analysis, we propose a new LRNN equipped with a block-diagonal and input-dependent transition matrix. Experiments suggest that the proposed model is the only LRNN that can perform length extrapolation on regular language tasks such as Sum, Even Pair, and Modular Arithmetic. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** ChatGPT MT: Competitive for High- (but not Low-) Resource Languages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07423  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) implicitly learn to perform a range of language tasks, including machine translation (MT). Previous studies explore aspects of LLMs' MT capabilities. However, there exist a wide variety of languages for which recent LLM MT performance has never before been evaluated. Without published experimental evidence on the matter, it is difficult for speakers of the world's diverse languages to know how and whether they can use LLMs for their languages. We present the first experimental evidence for an expansive set of 204 languages, along with MT cost analysis, using the FLORES-200 benchmark. Trends reveal that GPT models approach or exceed traditional MT model performance for some high-resource languages (HRLs) but consistently lag for low-resource languages (LRLs), under-performing traditional MT for 84.1% of languages we covered. Our analysis reveals that a language's resource level is the most important feature in determining ChatGPT's relative ability to translate it, and suggests that ChatGPT is especially disadvantaged for LRLs and African languages. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Research on self-cross transformer model of point cloud change detecter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07444  
**Abstract:** With the vigorous development of the urban construction industry, engineering deformation or changes often occur during the construction process. To combat this phenomenon, it is necessary to detect changes in order to detect construction loopholes in time, ensure the integrity of the project and reduce labor costs. Or the inconvenience and injuriousness of the road. In the study of change detection in 3D point clouds, researchers have published various research methods on 3D point clouds. Directly based on but mostly based ontraditional threshold distance methods (C2C, M3C2, M3C2-EP), and some are to convert 3D point clouds into DSM, which loses a lot of original information. Although deep learning is used in remote sensing methods, in terms of change detection of 3D point clouds, it is more converted into two-dimensional patches, and neural networks are rarely applied directly. We prefer that the network is given at the level of pixels or points. Variety. Therefore, in this article, our network builds a network for 3D point cloud change detection, and proposes a new module Cross transformer suitable for change detection. Simultaneously simulate tunneling data for change detection, and do test experiments with our network. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** DiffTalker: Co-driven audio-image diffusion for talking faces via  intermediate landmarks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07509  
**Abstract:** Generating realistic talking faces is a complex and widely discussed task with numerous applications. In this paper, we present DiffTalker, a novel model designed to generate lifelike talking faces through audio and landmark co-driving. DiffTalker addresses the challenges associated with directly applying diffusion models to audio control, which are traditionally trained on text-image pairs. DiffTalker consists of two agent networks: a transformer-based landmarks completion network for geometric accuracy and a diffusion-based face generation network for texture details. Landmarks play a pivotal role in establishing a seamless connection between the audio and image domains, facilitating the incorporation of knowledge from pre-trained diffusion models. This innovative approach efficiently produces articulate-speaking faces. Experimental results showcase DiffTalker's superior performance in producing clear and geometrically accurate talking faces, all without the need for additional alignment between audio and image features. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Structure-Preserving Transformers for Sequences of SPD Matrices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07579  
**Abstract:** In recent years, Transformer-based auto-attention mechanisms have been successfully applied to the analysis of a variety of context-reliant data types, from texts to images and beyond, including data from non-Euclidean geometries. In this paper, we present such a mechanism, designed to classify sequences of Symmetric Positive Definite matrices while preserving their Riemannian geometry throughout the analysis. We apply our method to automatic sleep staging on timeseries of EEG-derived covariance matrices from a standard dataset, obtaining high levels of stage-wise performance. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Revisiting Supertagging for HPSG  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07590  
**Abstract:** We present new supertaggers trained on HPSG-based treebanks. These treebanks feature high-quality annotation based on a well-developed linguistic theory and include diverse and challenging test datasets, beyond the usual WSJ section 23 and Wikipedia data. HPSG supertagging has previously relied on MaxEnt-based models. We use SVM and neural CRF- and BERT-based methods and show that both SVM and neural supertaggers achieve considerably higher accuracy compared to the baseline. Our fine-tuned BERT-based tagger achieves 97.26% accuracy on 1000 sentences from WSJ23 and 93.88% on the completely out-of-domain The Cathedral and the Bazaar (cb)). We conclude that it therefore makes sense to integrate these new supertaggers into modern HPSG parsers, and we also hope that the diverse and difficult datasets we used here will gain more popularity in the field. We contribute the complete dataset reformatted for token classification. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Turning Dross Into Gold Loss: is BERT4Rec really better than SASRec?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07602  
**Abstract:** Recently sequential recommendations and next-item prediction task has become increasingly popular in the field of recommender systems. Currently, two state-of-the-art baselines are Transformer-based models SASRec and BERT4Rec. Over the past few years, there have been quite a few publications comparing these two algorithms and proposing new state-of-the-art models. In most of the publications, BERT4Rec achieves better performance than SASRec. But BERT4Rec uses cross-entropy over softmax for all items, while SASRec uses negative sampling and calculates binary cross-entropy loss for one positive and one negative item. In our work, we show that if both models are trained with the same loss, which is used by BERT4Rec, then SASRec will significantly outperform BERT4Rec both in terms of quality and training speed. In addition, we show that SASRec could be effectively trained with negative sampling and still outperform BERT4Rec, but the number of negative examples should be much larger than one. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Learning Quasi-Static 3D Models of Markerless Deformable Linear Objects  for Bimanual Robotic Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07609  
**Abstract:** The robotic manipulation of Deformable Linear Objects (DLOs) is a vital and challenging task that is important in many practical applications. Classical model-based approaches to this problem require an accurate model to capture how robot motions affect the deformation of the DLO. Nowadays, data-driven models offer the best tradeoff between quality and computation time. This paper analyzes several learning-based 3D models of the DLO and proposes a new one based on the Transformer architecture that achieves superior accuracy, even on the DLOs of different lengths, thanks to the proposed scaling method. Moreover, we introduce a data augmentation technique, which improves the prediction performance of almost all considered DLO data-driven models. Thanks to this technique, even a simple Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) achieves close to state-of-the-art performance while being significantly faster to evaluate. In the experiments, we compare the performance of the learning-based 3D models of the DLO on several challenging datasets quantitatively and demonstrate their applicability in the task of shaping a DLO. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Feature Engineering in Learning-to-Rank for Community Question Answering  Task  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07610  
**Abstract:** Community question answering (CQA) forums are Internet-based platforms where users ask questions about a topic and other expert users try to provide solutions. Many CQA forums such as Quora, Stackoverflow, Yahoo!Answer, StackExchange exist with a lot of user-generated data. These data are leveraged in automated CQA ranking systems where similar questions (and answers) are presented in response to the query of the user. In this work, we empirically investigate a few aspects of this domain. Firstly, in addition to traditional features like TF-IDF, BM25 etc., we introduce a BERT-based feature that captures the semantic similarity between the question and answer. Secondly, most of the existing research works have focused on features extracted only from the question part; features extracted from answers have not been explored extensively. We combine both types of features in a linear fashion. Thirdly, using our proposed concepts, we conduct an empirical investigation with different rank-learning algorithms, some of which have not been used so far in CQA domain. On three standard CQA datasets, our proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art performance. We also analyze importance of the features we use in our investigation. This work is expected to guide the practitioners to select a better set of features for the CQA retrieval task. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Adaptive Reduced Basis Trust Region Methods for Parameter Identification  Problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07627  
**Abstract:** In this contribution, we are concerned with model order reduction in the context of iterative regularization methods for the solution of inverse problems arising from parameter identification in elliptic partial differential equations. Such methods typically require a large number of forward solutions, which makes the use of the reduced basis method attractive to reduce computational complexity. However, the considered inverse problems are typically ill-posed due to their infinite-dimensional parameter space. Moreover, the infinite-dimensional parameter space makes it impossible to build and certify classical reduced-order models efficiently in a so-called "offline phase". We thus propose a new algorithm that adaptively builds a reduced parameter space in the online phase. The enrichment of the reduced parameter space is naturally inherited from the Tikhonov regularization within an iteratively regularized Gau{\ss}-Newton method. Finally, the adaptive parameter space reduction is combined with a certified reduced basis state space reduction within an adaptive error-aware trust region framework. Numerical experiments are presented to show the efficiency of the combined parameter and state space reduction for inverse parameter identification problems with distributed reaction or diffusion coefficients. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Automatic Data Visualization Generation from Chinese Natural Language  Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07650  
**Abstract:** Data visualization has emerged as an effective tool for getting insights from massive datasets. Due to the hardness of manipulating the programming languages of data visualization, automatic data visualization generation from natural languages (Text-to-Vis) is becoming increasingly popular. Despite the plethora of research effort on the English Text-to-Vis, studies have yet to be conducted on data visualization generation from questions in Chinese. Motivated by this, we propose a Chinese Text-to-Vis dataset in the paper and demonstrate our first attempt to tackle this problem. Our model integrates multilingual BERT as the encoder, boosts the cross-lingual ability, and infuses the $n$-gram information into our word representation learning. Our experimental results show that our dataset is challenging and deserves further research. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** CoRF : Colorizing Radiance Fields using Knowledge Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07668  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance field (NeRF) based methods enable high-quality novel-view synthesis for multi-view images. This work presents a method for synthesizing colorized novel views from input grey-scale multi-view images. When we apply image or video-based colorization methods on the generated grey-scale novel views, we observe artifacts due to inconsistency across views. Training a radiance field network on the colorized grey-scale image sequence also does not solve the 3D consistency issue. We propose a distillation based method to transfer color knowledge from the colorization networks trained on natural images to the radiance field network. Specifically, our method uses the radiance field network as a 3D representation and transfers knowledge from existing 2D colorization methods. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method produces superior colorized novel views for indoor and outdoor scenes while maintaining cross-view consistency than baselines. Further, we show the efficacy of our method on applications like colorization of radiance field network trained from 1.) Infra-Red (IR) multi-view images and 2.) Old grey-scale multi-view image sequences. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Assessing the nature of large language models: A caution against  anthropocentrism  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07683  
**Abstract:** Generative AI models garnered a large amount of public attention and speculation with the release of OpenAIs chatbot, ChatGPT. At least two opinion camps exist: one excited about possibilities these models offer for fundamental changes to human tasks, and another highly concerned about power these models seem to have. To address these concerns, we assessed GPT3.5 using standard, normed, and validated cognitive and personality measures. For this seedling project, we developed a battery of tests that allowed us to estimate the boundaries of some of these models capabilities, how stable those capabilities are over a short period of time, and how they compare to humans. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Detecting ChatGPT: A Survey of the State of Detecting ChatGPT-Generated  Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07689  
**Abstract:** While recent advancements in the capabilities and widespread accessibility of generative language models, such as ChatGPT (OpenAI, 2022), have brought about various benefits by generating fluent human-like text, the task of distinguishing between human- and large language model (LLM) generated text has emerged as a crucial problem. These models can potentially deceive by generating artificial text that appears to be human-generated. This issue is particularly significant in domains such as law, education, and science, where ensuring the integrity of text is of the utmost importance. This survey provides an overview of the current approaches employed to differentiate between texts generated by humans and ChatGPT. We present an account of the different datasets constructed for detecting ChatGPT-generated text, the various methods utilized, what qualitative analyses into the characteristics of human versus ChatGPT-generated text have been performed, and finally, summarize our findings into general insights 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Market-GAN: Adding Control to Financial Market Data Generation with  Semantic Context  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07708  
**Abstract:** Financial simulators play an important role in enhancing forecasting accuracy, managing risks, and fostering strategic financial decision-making. Despite the development of financial market simulation methodologies, existing frameworks often struggle with adapting to specialized simulation context. We pinpoint the challenges as i) current financial datasets do not contain context labels; ii) current techniques are not designed to generate financial data with context as control, which demands greater precision compared to other modalities; iii) the inherent difficulties in generating context-aligned, high-fidelity data given the non-stationary, noisy nature of financial data. To address these challenges, our contributions are: i) we proposed the Contextual Market Dataset with market dynamics, stock ticker, and history state as context, leveraging a market dynamics modeling method that combines linear regression and Dynamic Time Warping clustering to extract market dynamics; ii) we present Market-GAN, a novel architecture incorporating a Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) for the controllable generation with context, an autoencoder for learning low-dimension features, and supervisors for knowledge transfer; iii) we introduce a two-stage training scheme to ensure that Market-GAN captures the intrinsic market distribution with multiple objectives. In the pertaining stage, with the use of the autoencoder and supervisors, we prepare the generator with a better initialization for the adversarial training stage. We propose a set of holistic evaluation metrics that consider alignment, fidelity, data usability on downstream tasks, and market facts. We evaluate Market-GAN with the Dow Jones Industrial Average data from 2000 to 2023 and showcase superior performance in comparison to 4 state-of-the-art time-series generative models. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** GRID: Scene-Graph-based Instruction-driven Robotic Task Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07726  
**Abstract:** Recent works have shown that Large Language Models (LLMs) can promote grounding instructions to robotic task planning. Despite the progress, most existing works focused on utilizing raw images to help LLMs understand environmental information, which not only limits the observation scope but also typically requires massive multimodal data collection and large-scale models. In this paper, we propose a novel approach called Graph-based Robotic Instruction Decomposer (GRID), leverages scene graph instead of image to perceive global scene information and continuously plans subtask in each stage for a given instruction. Our method encodes object attributes and relationships in graphs through an LLM and Graph Attention Networks, integrating instruction features to predict subtasks consisting of pre-defined robot actions and target objects in the scene graph. This strategy enables robots to acquire semantic knowledge widely observed in the environment from the scene graph. To train and evaluate GRID, we build a dataset construction pipeline to generate synthetic datasets in graph-based robotic task planning. Experiments have shown that our method outperforms GPT-4 by over 25.4% in subtask accuracy and 43.6% in task accuracy. Experiments conducted on datasets of unseen scenes and scenes with different numbers of objects showed that the task accuracy of GRID declined by at most 3.8%, which demonstrates its good cross-scene generalization ability. We validate our method in both physical simulation and the real world. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** DT-NeRF: Decomposed Triplane-Hash Neural Radiance Fields for  High-Fidelity Talking Portrait Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07752  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present the decomposed triplane-hash neural radiance fields (DT-NeRF), a framework that significantly improves the photorealistic rendering of talking faces and achieves state-of-the-art results on key evaluation datasets. Our architecture decomposes the facial region into two specialized triplanes: one specialized for representing the mouth, and the other for the broader facial features. We introduce audio features as residual terms and integrate them as query vectors into our model through an audio-mouth-face transformer. Additionally, our method leverages the capabilities of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) to enrich the volumetric representation of the entire face through additive volumetric rendering techniques. Comprehensive experimental evaluations corroborate the effectiveness and superiority of our proposed approach. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Co-Salient Object Detection with Semantic-Level Consensus Extraction and  Dispersion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07753  
**Abstract:** Given a group of images, co-salient object detection (CoSOD) aims to highlight the common salient object in each image. There are two factors closely related to the success of this task, namely consensus extraction, and the dispersion of consensus to each image. Most previous works represent the group consensus using local features, while we instead utilize a hierarchical Transformer module for extracting semantic-level consensus. Therefore, it can obtain a more comprehensive representation of the common object category, and exclude interference from other objects that share local similarities with the target object. In addition, we propose a Transformer-based dispersion module that takes into account the variation of the co-salient object in different scenes. It distributes the consensus to the image feature maps in an image-specific way while making full use of interactions within the group. These two modules are integrated with a ViT encoder and an FPN-like decoder to form an end-to-end trainable network, without additional branch and auxiliary loss. The proposed method is evaluated on three commonly used CoSOD datasets and achieves state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** PRE: Vision-Language Prompt Learning with Reparameterization Encoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07760  
**Abstract:** Large pre-trained vision-language models such as CLIP have demonstrated great potential in zero-shot transferability to downstream tasks. However, to attain optimal performance, the manual selection of prompts is necessary to improve alignment between the downstream image distribution and the textual class descriptions. This manual prompt engineering is the major challenge for deploying such models in practice since it requires domain expertise and is extremely time-consuming. To avoid non-trivial prompt engineering, recent work Context Optimization (CoOp) introduced the concept of prompt learning to the vision domain using learnable textual tokens. While CoOp can achieve substantial improvements over manual prompts, its learned context is worse generalizable to wider unseen classes within the same dataset. In this work, we present Prompt Learning with Reparameterization Encoder (PRE) - a simple and efficient method that enhances the generalization ability of the learnable prompt to unseen classes while maintaining the capacity to learn Base classes. Instead of directly optimizing the prompts, PRE employs a prompt encoder to reparameterize the input prompt embeddings, enhancing the exploration of task-specific knowledge from few-shot samples. Experiments and extensive ablation studies on 8 benchmarks demonstrate that our approach is an efficient method for prompt learning. Specifically, PRE achieves a notable enhancement of 5.60% in average accuracy on New classes and 3% in Harmonic mean compared to CoOp in the 16-shot setting, all achieved within a good training time. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Echotune: A Modular Extractor Leveraging the Variable-Length Nature of  Speech in ASR Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07765  
**Abstract:** The Transformer architecture has proven to be highly effective for Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) tasks, becoming a foundational component for a plethora of research in the domain. Historically, many approaches have leaned on fixed-length attention windows, which becomes problematic for varied speech samples in duration and complexity, leading to data over-smoothing and neglect of essential long-term connectivity. Addressing this limitation, we introduce Echo-MSA, a nimble module equipped with a variable-length attention mechanism that accommodates a range of speech sample complexities and durations. This module offers the flexibility to extract speech features across various granularities, spanning from frames and phonemes to words and discourse. The proposed design captures the variable length feature of speech and addresses the limitations of fixed-length attention. Our evaluation leverages a parallel attention architecture complemented by a dynamic gating mechanism that amalgamates traditional attention with the Echo-MSA module output. Empirical evidence from our study reveals that integrating Echo-MSA into the primary model's training regime significantly enhances the word error rate (WER) performance, all while preserving the intrinsic stability of the original model. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Text Classification of Cancer Clinical Trial Eligibility Criteria  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07812  
**Abstract:** Automatic identification of clinical trials for which a patient is eligible is complicated by the fact that trial eligibility is stated in natural language. A potential solution to this problem is to employ text classification methods for common types of eligibility criteria. In this study, we focus on seven common exclusion criteria in cancer trials: prior malignancy, human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, psychiatric illness, drug/substance abuse, and autoimmune illness. Our dataset consists of 764 phase III cancer trials with these exclusions annotated at the trial level. We experiment with common transformer models as well as a new pre-trained clinical trial BERT model. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of automatically classifying common exclusion criteria. Additionally, we demonstrate the value of a pre-trained language model specifically for clinical trials, which yields the highest average performance across all criteria. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Two Timin': Repairing Smart Contracts With A Two-Layered Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07841  
**Abstract:** Due to the modern relevance of blockchain technology, smart contracts present both substantial risks and benefits. Vulnerabilities within them can trigger a cascade of consequences, resulting in significant losses. Many current papers primarily focus on classifying smart contracts for malicious intent, often relying on limited contract characteristics, such as bytecode or opcode. This paper proposes a novel, two-layered framework: 1) classifying and 2) directly repairing malicious contracts. Slither's vulnerability report is combined with source code and passed through a pre-trained RandomForestClassifier (RFC) and Large Language Models (LLMs), classifying and repairing each suggested vulnerability. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of fine-tuned and prompt-engineered LLMs. The smart contract repair models, built from pre-trained GPT-3.5-Turbo and fine-tuned Llama-2-7B models, reduced the overall vulnerability count by 97.5% and 96.7% respectively. A manual inspection of repaired contracts shows that all retain functionality, indicating that the proposed method is appropriate for automatic batch classification and repair of vulnerabilities in smart contracts. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** MC-NeRF: Muti-Camera Neural Radiance Fields for Muti-Camera Image  Acquisition Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07846  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) employ multi-view images for 3D scene representation and have shown remarkable performance. As one of the primary sources of multi-view images, multi-camera systems encounter challenges such as varying intrinsic parameters and frequent pose changes. Most previous NeRF-based methods often assume a global unique camera and seldom consider scenarios with multiple cameras. Besides, some pose-robust methods still remain susceptible to suboptimal solutions when poses are poor initialized. In this paper, we propose MC-NeRF, a method can jointly optimize both intrinsic and extrinsic parameters for bundle-adjusting Neural Radiance Fields. Firstly, we conduct a theoretical analysis to tackle the degenerate case and coupling issue that arise from the joint optimization between intrinsic and extrinsic parameters. Secondly, based on the proposed solutions, we introduce an efficient calibration image acquisition scheme for multi-camera systems, including the design of calibration object. Lastly, we present a global end-to-end network with training sequence that enables the regression of intrinsic and extrinsic parameters, along with the rendering network. Moreover, most existing datasets are designed for unique camera, we create a new dataset that includes four different styles of multi-camera acquisition systems, allowing readers to generate custom datasets. Experiments confirm the effectiveness of our method when each image corresponds to different camera parameters. Specifically, we adopt up to 110 images with 110 different intrinsic and extrinsic parameters, to achieve 3D scene representation without providing initial poses. The Code and supplementary materials are available at https://in2-viaun.github.io/MC-NeRF. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Beta Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07867  
**Abstract:** We introduce beta diffusion, a novel generative modeling method that integrates demasking and denoising to generate data within bounded ranges. Using scaled and shifted beta distributions, beta diffusion utilizes multiplicative transitions over time to create both forward and reverse diffusion processes, maintaining beta distributions in both the forward marginals and the reverse conditionals, given the data at any point in time. Unlike traditional diffusion-based generative models relying on additive Gaussian noise and reweighted evidence lower bounds (ELBOs), beta diffusion is multiplicative and optimized with KL-divergence upper bounds (KLUBs) derived from the convexity of the KL divergence. We demonstrate that the proposed KLUBs are more effective for optimizing beta diffusion compared to negative ELBOs, which can also be derived as the KLUBs of the same KL divergence with its two arguments swapped. The loss function of beta diffusion, expressed in terms of Bregman divergence, further supports the efficacy of KLUBs for optimization. Experimental results on both synthetic data and natural images demonstrate the unique capabilities of beta diffusion in generative modeling of range-bounded data and validate the effectiveness of KLUBs in optimizing diffusion models, thereby making them valuable additions to the family of diffusion-based generative models and the optimization techniques used to train them. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Generative Image Dynamics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07906  
**Abstract:** We present an approach to modeling an image-space prior on scene dynamics. Our prior is learned from a collection of motion trajectories extracted from real video sequences containing natural, oscillating motion such as trees, flowers, candles, and clothes blowing in the wind. Given a single image, our trained model uses a frequency-coordinated diffusion sampling process to predict a per-pixel long-term motion representation in the Fourier domain, which we call a neural stochastic motion texture. This representation can be converted into dense motion trajectories that span an entire video. Along with an image-based rendering module, these trajectories can be used for a number of downstream applications, such as turning still images into seamlessly looping dynamic videos, or allowing users to realistically interact with objects in real pictures. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Boosting Unsupervised Contrastive Learning Using Diffusion-Based Data  Augmentation From Scratch  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07909  
**Abstract:** Unsupervised contrastive learning methods have recently seen significant improvements, particularly through data augmentation strategies that aim to produce robust and generalizable representations. However, prevailing data augmentation methods, whether hand designed or based on foundation models, tend to rely heavily on prior knowledge or external data. This dependence often compromises their effectiveness and efficiency. Furthermore, the applicability of most existing data augmentation strategies is limited when transitioning to other research domains, especially science-related data. This limitation stems from the paucity of prior knowledge and labeled data available in these domains. To address these challenges, we introduce DiffAug-a novel and efficient Diffusion-based data Augmentation technique. DiffAug aims to ensure that the augmented and original data share a smoothed latent space, which is achieved through diffusion steps. Uniquely, unlike traditional methods, DiffAug first mines sufficient prior semantic knowledge about the neighborhood. This provides a constraint to guide the diffusion steps, eliminating the need for labels, external data/models, or prior knowledge. Designed as an architecture-agnostic framework, DiffAug provides consistent improvements. Specifically, it improves image classification and clustering accuracy by 1.6%~4.5%. When applied to biological data, DiffAug improves performance by up to 10.1%, with an average improvement of 5.8%. DiffAug shows good performance in both vision and biological domains. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Disentangling Spatial and Temporal Learning for Efficient Image-to-Video  Transfer Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07911  
**Abstract:** Recently, large-scale pre-trained language-image models like CLIP have shown extraordinary capabilities for understanding spatial contents, but naively transferring such models to video recognition still suffers from unsatisfactory temporal modeling capabilities. Existing methods insert tunable structures into or in parallel with the pre-trained model, which either requires back-propagation through the whole pre-trained model and is thus resource-demanding, or is limited by the temporal reasoning capability of the pre-trained structure. In this work, we present DiST, which disentangles the learning of spatial and temporal aspects of videos. Specifically, DiST uses a dual-encoder structure, where a pre-trained foundation model acts as the spatial encoder, and a lightweight network is introduced as the temporal encoder. An integration branch is inserted between the encoders to fuse spatio-temporal information. The disentangled spatial and temporal learning in DiST is highly efficient because it avoids the back-propagation of massive pre-trained parameters. Meanwhile, we empirically show that disentangled learning with an extra network for integration benefits both spatial and temporal understanding. Extensive experiments on five benchmarks show that DiST delivers better performance than existing state-of-the-art methods by convincing gaps. When pre-training on the large-scale Kinetics-710, we achieve 89.7% on Kinetics-400 with a frozen ViT-L model, which verifies the scalability of DiST. Codes and models can be found in https://github.com/alibaba-mmai-research/DiST. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Large-Vocabulary 3D Diffusion Model with Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07920  
**Abstract:** Creating diverse and high-quality 3D assets with an automatic generative model is highly desirable. Despite extensive efforts on 3D generation, most existing works focus on the generation of a single category or a few categories. In this paper, we introduce a diffusion-based feed-forward framework for synthesizing massive categories of real-world 3D objects with a single generative model. Notably, there are three major challenges for this large-vocabulary 3D generation: a) the need for expressive yet efficient 3D representation; b) large diversity in geometry and texture across categories; c) complexity in the appearances of real-world objects. To this end, we propose a novel triplane-based 3D-aware Diffusion model with TransFormer, DiffTF, for handling challenges via three aspects. 1) Considering efficiency and robustness, we adopt a revised triplane representation and improve the fitting speed and accuracy. 2) To handle the drastic variations in geometry and texture, we regard the features of all 3D objects as a combination of generalized 3D knowledge and specialized 3D features. To extract generalized 3D knowledge from diverse categories, we propose a novel 3D-aware transformer with shared cross-plane attention. It learns the cross-plane relations across different planes and aggregates the generalized 3D knowledge with specialized 3D features. 3) In addition, we devise the 3D-aware encoder/decoder to enhance the generalized 3D knowledge in the encoded triplanes for handling categories with complex appearances. Extensive experiments on ShapeNet and OmniObject3D (over 200 diverse real-world categories) convincingly demonstrate that a single DiffTF model achieves state-of-the-art large-vocabulary 3D object generation performance with large diversity, rich semantics, and high quality. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Masked Transformer for Electrocardiogram Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07136  
**Abstract:** Electrocardiogram (ECG) is one of the most important diagnostic tools in clinical applications. With the advent of advanced algorithms, various deep learning models have been adopted for ECG tasks. However, the potential of Transformers for ECG data is not yet realized, despite their widespread success in computer vision and natural language processing. In this work, we present a useful masked Transformer method for ECG classification referred to as MTECG, which expands the application of masked autoencoders to ECG time series. We construct a dataset comprising 220,251 ECG recordings with a broad range of diagnoses annoated by medical experts to explore the properties of MTECG. Under the proposed training strategies, a lightweight model with 5.7M parameters performs stably well on a broad range of masking ratios (5%-75%). The ablation studies highlight the importance of fluctuated reconstruction targets, training schedule length, layer-wise LR decay and DropPath rate. The experiments on both private and public ECG datasets demonstrate that MTECG-T significantly outperforms the recent state-of-the-art algorithms in ECG classification. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Decoding visual brain representations from electroencephalography  through Knowledge Distillation and latent diffusion models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07149  
**Abstract:** Decoding visual representations from human brain activity has emerged as a thriving research domain, particularly in the context of brain-computer interfaces. Our study presents an innovative method that employs to classify and reconstruct images from the ImageNet dataset using electroencephalography (EEG) data from subjects that had viewed the images themselves (i.e. "brain decoding"). We analyzed EEG recordings from 6 participants, each exposed to 50 images spanning 40 unique semantic categories. These EEG readings were converted into spectrograms, which were then used to train a convolutional neural network (CNN), integrated with a knowledge distillation procedure based on a pre-trained Contrastive Language-Image Pre-Training (CLIP)-based image classification teacher network. This strategy allowed our model to attain a top-5 accuracy of 80%, significantly outperforming a standard CNN and various RNN-based benchmarks. Additionally, we incorporated an image reconstruction mechanism based on pre-trained latent diffusion models, which allowed us to generate an estimate of the images which had elicited EEG activity. Therefore, our architecture not only decodes images from neural activity but also offers a credible image reconstruction from EEG only, paving the way for e.g. swift, individualized feedback experiments. Our research represents a significant step forward in connecting neural signals with visual cognition. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Dataset Size Dependence of Rate-Distortion Curve and Threshold of  Posterior Collapse in Linear VAE  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07663  
**Abstract:** In the Variational Autoencoder (VAE), the variational posterior often aligns closely with the prior, which is known as posterior collapse and hinders the quality of representation learning. To mitigate this problem, an adjustable hyperparameter beta has been introduced in the VAE. This paper presents a closed-form expression to assess the relationship between the beta in VAE, the dataset size, the posterior collapse, and the rate-distortion curve by analyzing a minimal VAE in a high-dimensional limit. These results clarify that a long plateau in the generalization error emerges with a relatively larger beta. As the beta increases, the length of the plateau extends and then becomes infinite beyond a certain beta threshold. This implies that the choice of beta, unlike the usual regularization parameters, can induce posterior collapse regardless of the dataset size. Thus, beta is a risky parameter that requires careful tuning. Furthermore, considering the dataset-size dependence on the rate-distortion curve, a relatively large dataset is required to obtain a rate-distortion curve with high rates. Extensive numerical experiments support our analysis. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** SnakeGAN: A Universal Vocoder Leveraging DDSP Prior Knowledge and  Periodic Inductive Bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07803  
**Abstract:** Generative adversarial network (GAN)-based neural vocoders have been widely used in audio synthesis tasks due to their high generation quality, efficient inference, and small computation footprint. However, it is still challenging to train a universal vocoder which can generalize well to out-of-domain (OOD) scenarios, such as unseen speaking styles, non-speech vocalization, singing, and musical pieces. In this work, we propose SnakeGAN, a GAN-based universal vocoder, which can synthesize high-fidelity audio in various OOD scenarios. SnakeGAN takes a coarse-grained signal generated by a differentiable digital signal processing (DDSP) model as prior knowledge, aiming at recovering high-fidelity waveform from a Mel-spectrogram. We introduce periodic nonlinearities through the Snake activation function and anti-aliased representation into the generator, which further brings the desired inductive bias for audio synthesis and significantly improves the extrapolation capacity for universal vocoding in unseen scenarios. To validate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we train SnakeGAN with only speech data and evaluate its performance for various OOD distributions with both subjective and objective metrics. Experimental results show that SnakeGAN significantly outperforms the compared approaches and can generate high-fidelity audio samples including unseen speakers with unseen styles, singing voices, instrumental pieces, and nonverbal vocalization. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** EMOCONV-DIFF: Diffusion-based Speech Emotion Conversion for Non-parallel  and In-the-wild Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07828  
**Abstract:** Speech emotion conversion is the task of converting the expressed emotion of a spoken utterance to a target emotion while preserving the lexical content and speaker identity. While most existing works in speech emotion conversion rely on acted-out datasets and parallel data samples, in this work we specifically focus on more challenging in-the-wild scenarios and do not rely on parallel data. To this end, we propose a diffusion-based generative model for speech emotion conversion, the EmoConv-Diff, that is trained to reconstruct an input utterance while also conditioning on its emotion. Subsequently, at inference, a target emotion embedding is employed to convert the emotion of the input utterance to the given target emotion. As opposed to performing emotion conversion on categorical representations, we use a continuous arousal dimension to represent emotions while also achieving intensity control. We validate the proposed methodology on a large in-the-wild dataset, the MSP-Podcast v1.10. Our results show that the proposed diffusion model is indeed capable of synthesizing speech with a controllable target emotion. Crucially, the proposed approach shows improved performance along the extreme values of arousal and thereby addresses a common challenge in the speech emotion conversion literature. 

