**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Generative AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07930  
**Abstract:** The term "generative AI" refers to computational techniques that are capable of generating seemingly new, meaningful content such as text, images, or audio from training data. The widespread diffusion of this technology with examples such as Dall-E 2, GPT-4, and Copilot is currently revolutionizing the way we work and communicate with each other. In this article, we provide a conceptualization of generative AI as an entity in socio-technical systems and provide examples of models, systems, and applications. Based on that, we introduce limitations of current generative AI and provide an agenda for Business & Information Systems Engineering (BISE) research. Different from previous works, we focus on generative AI in the context of information systems, and, to this end, we discuss several opportunities and challenges that are unique to the BISE community and make suggestions for impactful directions for BISE research. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** An Assessment of ChatGPT on Log Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07938  
**Abstract:** Recent development of large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT has been widely applied to a wide range of software engineering tasks. Many papers have reported their analysis on the potential advantages and limitations of ChatGPT for writing code, summarization, text generation, etc. However, the analysis of the current state of ChatGPT for log processing has received little attention. Logs generated by large-scale software systems are complex and hard to understand. Despite their complexity, they provide crucial information for subject matter experts to understand the system status and diagnose problems of the systems. In this paper, we investigate the current capabilities of ChatGPT to perform several interesting tasks on log data, while also trying to identify its main shortcomings. Our findings show that the performance of the current version of ChatGPT for log processing is limited, with a lack of consistency in responses and scalability issues. We also outline our views on how we perceive the role of LLMs in the log processing discipline and possible next steps to improve the current capabilities of ChatGPT and the future LLMs in this area. We believe our work can contribute to future academic research to address the identified issues. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Text-to-Image Models for Counterfactual Explanations: a Black-Box  Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07944  
**Abstract:** This paper addresses the challenge of generating Counterfactual Explanations (CEs), involving the identification and modification of the fewest necessary features to alter a classifier's prediction for a given image. Our proposed method, Text-to-Image Models for Counterfactual Explanations (TIME), is a black-box counterfactual technique based on distillation. Unlike previous methods, this approach requires solely the image and its prediction, omitting the need for the classifier's structure, parameters, or gradients. Before generating the counterfactuals, TIME introduces two distinct biases into Stable Diffusion in the form of textual embeddings: the context bias, associated with the image's structure, and the class bias, linked to class-specific features learned by the target classifier. After learning these biases, we find the optimal latent code applying the classifier's predicted class token and regenerate the image using the target embedding as conditioning, producing the counterfactual explanation. Extensive empirical studies validate that TIME can generate explanations of comparable effectiveness even when operating within a black-box setting. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Language Embedded Radiance Fields for Zero-Shot Task-Oriented Grasping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07970  
**Abstract:** Grasping objects by a specific part is often crucial for safety and for executing downstream tasks. Yet, learning-based grasp planners lack this behavior unless they are trained on specific object part data, making it a significant challenge to scale object diversity. Instead, we propose LERF-TOGO, Language Embedded Radiance Fields for Task-Oriented Grasping of Objects, which uses vision-language models zero-shot to output a grasp distribution over an object given a natural language query. To accomplish this, we first reconstruct a LERF of the scene, which distills CLIP embeddings into a multi-scale 3D language field queryable with text. However, LERF has no sense of objectness, meaning its relevancy outputs often return incomplete activations over an object which are insufficient for subsequent part queries. LERF-TOGO mitigates this lack of spatial grouping by extracting a 3D object mask via DINO features and then conditionally querying LERF on this mask to obtain a semantic distribution over the object with which to rank grasps from an off-the-shelf grasp planner. We evaluate LERF-TOGO's ability to grasp task-oriented object parts on 31 different physical objects, and find it selects grasps on the correct part in 81% of all trials and grasps successfully in 69%. See the project website at: lerftogo.github.io 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Viewpoint Textual Inversion: Unleashing Novel View Synthesis with  Pretrained 2D Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07986  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models understand spatial relationship between objects, but do they represent the true 3D structure of the world from only 2D supervision? We demonstrate that yes, 3D knowledge is encoded in 2D image diffusion models like Stable Diffusion, and we show that this structure can be exploited for 3D vision tasks. Our method, Viewpoint Neural Textual Inversion (ViewNeTI), controls the 3D viewpoint of objects in generated images from frozen diffusion models. We train a small neural mapper to take camera viewpoint parameters and predict text encoder latents; the latents then condition the diffusion generation process to produce images with the desired camera viewpoint. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Folding Attention: Memory and Power Optimization for On-Device  Transformer-based Streaming Speech Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07988  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based models excel in speech recognition. Existing efforts to optimize Transformer inference, typically for long-context applications, center on simplifying attention score calculations. However, streaming speech recognition models usually process a limited number of tokens each time, making attention score calculation less of a bottleneck. Instead, the bottleneck lies in the linear projection layers of multi-head attention and feedforward networks, constituting a substantial portion of the model size and contributing significantly to computation, memory, and power usage. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** An Empirical Evaluation of Prompting Strategies for Large Language  Models in Zero-Shot Clinical Natural Language Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08008  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in Natural Language Processing (NLP), especially in domains where labeled data is scarce or expensive, such as clinical domain. However, to unlock the clinical knowledge hidden in these LLMs, we need to design effective prompts that can guide them to perform specific clinical NLP tasks without any task-specific training data. This is known as in-context learning, which is an art and science that requires understanding the strengths and weaknesses of different LLMs and prompt engineering approaches. In this paper, we present a comprehensive and systematic experimental study on prompt engineering for five clinical NLP tasks: Clinical Sense Disambiguation, Biomedical Evidence Extraction, Coreference Resolution, Medication Status Extraction, and Medication Attribute Extraction. We assessed the prompts proposed in recent literature, including simple prefix, simple cloze, chain of thought, and anticipatory prompts, and introduced two new types of prompts, namely heuristic prompting and ensemble prompting. We evaluated the performance of these prompts on three state-of-the-art LLMs: GPT-3.5, BARD, and LLAMA2. We also contrasted zero-shot prompting with few-shot prompting, and provide novel insights and guidelines for prompt engineering for LLMs in clinical NLP. To the best of our knowledge, this is one of the first works on the empirical evaluation of different prompt engineering approaches for clinical NLP in this era of generative AI, and we hope that it will inspire and inform future research in this area. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Interpretability-Aware Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08035  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformers (ViTs) have become prominent models for solving various vision tasks. However, the interpretability of ViTs has not kept pace with their promising performance. While there has been a surge of interest in developing {\it post hoc} solutions to explain ViTs' outputs, these methods do not generalize to different downstream tasks and various transformer architectures. Furthermore, if ViTs are not properly trained with the given data and do not prioritize the region of interest, the {\it post hoc} methods would be less effective. Instead of developing another {\it post hoc} approach, we introduce a novel training procedure that inherently enhances model interpretability. Our interpretability-aware ViT (IA-ViT) draws inspiration from a fresh insight: both the class patch and image patches consistently generate predicted distributions and attention maps. IA-ViT is composed of a feature extractor, a predictor, and an interpreter, which are trained jointly with an interpretability-aware training objective. Consequently, the interpreter simulates the behavior of the predictor and provides a faithful explanation through its single-head self-attention mechanism. Our comprehensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of IA-ViT in several image classification tasks, with both qualitative and quantitative evaluations of model performance and interpretability. Source code is available from: https://github.com/qiangyao1988/IA-ViT. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Gradient based Grasp Pose Optimization on a NeRF that Approximates Grasp  Success  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08040  
**Abstract:** Current robotic grasping methods often rely on estimating the pose of the target object, explicitly predicting grasp poses, or implicitly estimating grasp success probabilities. In this work, we propose a novel approach that directly maps gripper poses to their corresponding grasp success values, without considering objectness. Specifically, we leverage a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) architecture to learn a scene representation and use it to train a grasp success estimator that maps each pose in the robot's task space to a grasp success value. We employ this learned estimator to tune its inputs, i.e., grasp poses, by gradient-based optimization to obtain successful grasp poses. Contrary to other NeRF-based methods which enhance existing grasp pose estimation approaches by relying on NeRF's rendering capabilities or directly estimate grasp poses in a discretized space using NeRF's scene representation capabilities, our approach uniquely sidesteps both the need for rendering and the limitation of discretization. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on four simulated 3DoF (Degree of Freedom) robotic grasping tasks and show that it can generalize to novel objects. Our best model achieves an average translation error of 3mm from valid grasp poses. This work opens the door for future research to apply our approach to higher DoF grasps and real-world scenarios. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Detail Reinforcement Diffusion Model: Augmentation Fine-Grained Visual  Categorization in Few-Shot Conditions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08097  
**Abstract:** The challenge in fine-grained visual categorization lies in how to explore the subtle differences between different subclasses and achieve accurate discrimination. Previous research has relied on large-scale annotated data and pre-trained deep models to achieve the objective. However, when only a limited amount of samples is available, similar methods may become less effective. Diffusion models have been widely adopted in data augmentation due to their outstanding diversity in data generation. However, the high level of detail required for fine-grained images makes it challenging for existing methods to be directly employed. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach termed the detail reinforcement diffusion model~(DRDM), which leverages the rich knowledge of large models for fine-grained data augmentation and comprises two key components including discriminative semantic recombination (DSR) and spatial knowledge reference~(SKR). Specifically, DSR is designed to extract implicit similarity relationships from the labels and reconstruct the semantic mapping between labels and instances, which enables better discrimination of subtle differences between different subclasses. Furthermore, we introduce the SKR module, which incorporates the distributions of different datasets as references in the feature space. This allows the SKR to aggregate the high-dimensional distribution of subclass features in few-shot FGVC tasks, thus expanding the decision boundary. Through these two critical components, we effectively utilize the knowledge from large models to address the issue of data scarcity, resulting in improved performance for fine-grained visual recognition tasks. Extensive experiments demonstrate the consistent performance gain offered by our DRDM. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Research on Joint Representation Learning Methods for Entity  Neighborhood Information and Description Information  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08100  
**Abstract:** To address the issue of poor embedding performance in the knowledge graph of a programming design course, a joint represen-tation learning model that combines entity neighborhood infor-mation and description information is proposed. Firstly, a graph at-tention network is employed to obtain the features of entity neigh-boring nodes, incorporating relationship features to enrich the structural information. Next, the BERT-WWM model is utilized in conjunction with attention mechanisms to obtain the representation of entity description information. Finally, the final entity vector representation is obtained by combining the vector representations of entity neighborhood information and description information. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model achieves favorable performance on the knowledge graph dataset of the pro-gramming design course, outperforming other baseline models. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Foundation Model Assisted Automatic Speech Emotion Recognition:  Transcribing, Annotating, and Augmenting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08108  
**Abstract:** Significant advances are being made in speech emotion recognition (SER) using deep learning models. Nonetheless, training SER systems remains challenging, requiring both time and costly resources. Like many other machine learning tasks, acquiring datasets for SER requires substantial data annotation efforts, including transcription and labeling. These annotation processes present challenges when attempting to scale up conventional SER systems. Recent developments in foundational models have had a tremendous impact, giving rise to applications such as ChatGPT. These models have enhanced human-computer interactions including bringing unique possibilities for streamlining data collection in fields like SER. In this research, we explore the use of foundational models to assist in automating SER from transcription and annotation to augmentation. Our study demonstrates that these models can generate transcriptions to enhance the performance of SER systems that rely solely on speech data. Furthermore, we note that annotating emotions from transcribed speech remains a challenging task. However, combining outputs from multiple LLMs enhances the quality of annotations. Lastly, our findings suggest the feasibility of augmenting existing speech emotion datasets by annotating unlabeled speech samples. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Talkin' 'Bout AI Generation: Copyright and the Generative-AI Supply  Chain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08133  
**Abstract:** "Does generative AI infringe copyright?" is an urgent question. It is also a difficult question, for two reasons. First, "generative AI" is not just one product from one company. It is a catch-all name for a massive ecosystem of loosely related technologies, including conversational text chatbots like ChatGPT, image generators like Midjourney and DALL-E, coding assistants like GitHub Copilot, and systems that compose music and create videos. These systems behave differently and raise different legal issues. The second problem is that copyright law is notoriously complicated, and generative-AI systems manage to touch on a great many corners of it: authorship, similarity, direct and indirect liability, fair use, and licensing, among much else. These issues cannot be analyzed in isolation, because there are connections everywhere. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** AnyOKP: One-Shot and Instance-Aware Object Keypoint Extraction with  Pretrained ViT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08134  
**Abstract:** Towards flexible object-centric visual perception, we propose a one-shot instance-aware object keypoint (OKP) extraction approach, AnyOKP, which leverages the powerful representation ability of pretrained vision transformer (ViT), and can obtain keypoints on multiple object instances of arbitrary category after learning from a support image. An off-the-shelf petrained ViT is directly deployed for generalizable and transferable feature extraction, which is followed by training-free feature enhancement. The best-prototype pairs (BPPs) are searched for in support and query images based on appearance similarity, to yield instance-unaware candidate keypoints.Then, the entire graph with all candidate keypoints as vertices are divided to sub-graphs according to the feature distributions on the graph edges. Finally, each sub-graph represents an object instance. AnyOKP is evaluated on real object images collected with the cameras of a robot arm, a mobile robot, and a surgical robot, which not only demonstrates the cross-category flexibility and instance awareness, but also show remarkable robustness to domain shift and viewpoint change. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Find What You Want: Learning Demand-conditioned Object Attribute Space  for Demand-driven Navigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08138  
**Abstract:** The task of Visual Object Navigation (VON) involves an agent's ability to locate a particular object within a given scene. In order to successfully accomplish the VON task, two essential conditions must be fulfilled:1) the user must know the name of the desired object; and 2) the user-specified object must actually be present within the scene. To meet these conditions, a simulator can incorporate pre-defined object names and positions into the metadata of the scene. However, in real-world scenarios, it is often challenging to ensure that these conditions are always met. Human in an unfamiliar environment may not know which objects are present in the scene, or they may mistakenly specify an object that is not actually present. Nevertheless, despite these challenges, human may still have a demand for an object, which could potentially be fulfilled by other objects present within the scene in an equivalent manner. Hence, we propose Demand-driven Navigation (DDN), which leverages the user's demand as the task instruction and prompts the agent to find the object matches the specified demand. DDN aims to relax the stringent conditions of VON by focusing on fulfilling the user's demand rather than relying solely on predefined object categories or names. We propose a method first acquire textual attribute features of objects by extracting common knowledge from a large language model. These textual attribute features are subsequently aligned with visual attribute features using Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP). By incorporating the visual attribute features as prior knowledge, we enhance the navigation process. Experiments on AI2Thor with the ProcThor dataset demonstrate the visual attribute features improve the agent's navigation performance and outperform the baseline methods commonly used in VON. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** AdSEE: Investigating the Impact of Image Style Editing on Advertisement  Attractiveness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08159  
**Abstract:** Online advertisements are important elements in e-commerce sites, social media platforms, and search engines. With the increasing popularity of mobile browsing, many online ads are displayed with visual information in the form of a cover image in addition to text descriptions to grab the attention of users. Various recent studies have focused on predicting the click rates of online advertisements aware of visual features or composing optimal advertisement elements to enhance visibility. In this paper, we propose Advertisement Style Editing and Attractiveness Enhancement (AdSEE), which explores whether semantic editing to ads images can affect or alter the popularity of online advertisements. We introduce StyleGAN-based facial semantic editing and inversion to ads images and train a click rate predictor attributing GAN-based face latent representations in addition to traditional visual and textual features to click rates. Through a large collected dataset named QQ-AD, containing 20,527 online ads, we perform extensive offline tests to study how different semantic directions and their edit coefficients may impact click rates. We further design a Genetic Advertisement Editor to efficiently search for the optimal edit directions and intensity given an input ad cover image to enhance its projected click rates. Online A/B tests performed over a period of 5 days have verified the increased click-through rates of AdSEE-edited samples as compared to a control group of original ads, verifying the relation between image styles and ad popularity. We open source the code for AdSEE research at https://github.com/LiyaoJiang1998/adsee. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Investigating the Applicability of Self-Assessment Tests for Personality  Measurement of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08163  
**Abstract:** As large language models (LLM) evolve in their capabilities, various recent studies have tried to quantify their behavior using psychological tools created to study human behavior. One such example is the measurement of "personality" of LLMs using personality self-assessment tests. In this paper, we take three such studies on personality measurement of LLMs that use personality self-assessment tests created to study human behavior. We use the prompts used in these three different papers to measure the personality of the same LLM. We find that all three prompts lead very different personality scores. This simple test reveals that personality self-assessment scores in LLMs depend on the subjective choice of the prompter. Since we don't know the ground truth value of personality scores for LLMs as there is no correct answer to such questions, there's no way of claiming if one prompt is more or less correct than the other. We then introduce the property of option order symmetry for personality measurement of LLMs. Since most of the self-assessment tests exist in the form of multiple choice question (MCQ) questions, we argue that the scores should also be robust to not just the prompt template but also the order in which the options are presented. This test unsurprisingly reveals that the answers to the self-assessment tests are not robust to the order of the options. These simple tests, done on ChatGPT and Llama2 models show that self-assessment personality tests created for humans are not appropriate for measuring personality in LLMs. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Differentiable Resolution Compression and Alignment for Efficient Video  Classification and Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08167  
**Abstract:** Optimizing video inference efficiency has become increasingly important with the growing demand for video analysis in various fields. Some existing methods achieve high efficiency by explicit discard of spatial or temporal information, which poses challenges in fast-changing and fine-grained scenarios. To address these issues, we propose an efficient video representation network with Differentiable Resolution Compression and Alignment mechanism, which compresses non-essential information in the early stage of the network to reduce computational costs while maintaining consistent temporal correlations. Specifically, we leverage a Differentiable Context-aware Compression Module to encode the saliency and non-saliency frame features, refining and updating the features into a high-low resolution video sequence. To process the new sequence, we introduce a new Resolution-Align Transformer Layer to capture global temporal correlations among frame features with different resolutions, while reducing spatial computation costs quadratically by utilizing fewer spatial tokens in low-resolution non-saliency frames. The entire network can be end-to-end optimized via the integration of the differentiable compression module. Experimental results show that our method achieves the best trade-off between efficiency and performance on near-duplicate video retrieval and competitive results on dynamic video classification compared to state-of-the-art methods. Code:https://github.com/dun-research/DRCA 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Large Language Models for Failure Mode Classification: An Investigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08181  
**Abstract:** In this paper we present the first investigation into the effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) for Failure Mode Classification (FMC). FMC, the task of automatically labelling an observation with a corresponding failure mode code, is a critical task in the maintenance domain as it reduces the need for reliability engineers to spend their time manually analysing work orders. We detail our approach to prompt engineering to enable an LLM to predict the failure mode of a given observation using a restricted code list. We demonstrate that the performance of a GPT-3.5 model (F1=0.80) fine-tuned on annotated data is a significant improvement over a currently available text classification model (F1=0.60) trained on the same annotated data set. The fine-tuned model also outperforms the out-of-the box GPT-3.5 (F1=0.46). This investigation reinforces the need for high quality fine-tuning data sets for domain-specific tasks using LLMs. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Using Large Language Model to Solve and Explain Physics Word Problems  Approaching Human Level  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08182  
**Abstract:** Our work demonstrates that large language model (LLM) pre-trained on texts can not only solve pure math word problems, but also physics word problems-problems to be solved by calculation and inference based on some prior physical knowledge. We collect and annotate the first physics word problem dataset-PhysQA, which contains over 1000 junior high school physics word problems (on Kinematics, Mass&Density, Mechanics, Heat, Electricity). Then we use OpenAI' s GPT3.5 to generate the answer of these problems and found that GPT3.5 could automatically solve 49.3% of the problems on zero-shot learning and 73.2% on few-shot learning. This result show that by using similar problem and its answer as prompt, LLM could solve elementary physics word problems approaching human level. Besides automatically solving problems, GPT3.5 could also summarize the knowledge or topic examined by the problem, generate the relevant explanation, and synthesis new physics word problems according tothe input problems.Our work is the first research on automatically solving, explaining and generating physics word problems of multiple types and scenes, and we gain an acceptable and state-of-art accuracy, which demonstrates the potential of LLM's further application in the field of secondary education. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Salient Object Detection in Optical Remote Sensing Images Driven by  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08206  
**Abstract:** Existing methods for Salient Object Detection in Optical Remote Sensing Images (ORSI-SOD) mainly adopt Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) as the backbone, such as VGG and ResNet. Since CNNs can only extract features within certain receptive fields, most ORSI-SOD methods generally follow the local-to-contextual paradigm. In this paper, we propose a novel Global Extraction Local Exploration Network (GeleNet) for ORSI-SOD following the global-to-local paradigm. Specifically, GeleNet first adopts a transformer backbone to generate four-level feature embeddings with global long-range dependencies. Then, GeleNet employs a Direction-aware Shuffle Weighted Spatial Attention Module (D-SWSAM) and its simplified version (SWSAM) to enhance local interactions, and a Knowledge Transfer Module (KTM) to further enhance cross-level contextual interactions. D-SWSAM comprehensively perceives the orientation information in the lowest-level features through directional convolutions to adapt to various orientations of salient objects in ORSIs, and effectively enhances the details of salient objects with an improved attention mechanism. SWSAM discards the direction-aware part of D-SWSAM to focus on localizing salient objects in the highest-level features. KTM models the contextual correlation knowledge of two middle-level features of different scales based on the self-attention mechanism, and transfers the knowledge to the raw features to generate more discriminative features. Finally, a saliency predictor is used to generate the saliency map based on the outputs of the above three modules. Extensive experiments on three public datasets demonstrate that the proposed GeleNet outperforms relevant state-of-the-art methods. The code and results of our method are available at https://github.com/MathLee/GeleNet. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Investigating Answerability of LLMs for Long-Form Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08210  
**Abstract:** As we embark on a new era of LLMs, it becomes increasingly crucial to understand their capabilities, limitations, and differences. Toward making further progress in this direction, we strive to build a deeper understanding of the gaps between massive LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT) and smaller yet effective open-source LLMs and their distilled counterparts. To this end, we specifically focus on long-form question answering (LFQA) because it has several practical and impactful applications (e.g., troubleshooting, customer service, etc.) yet is still understudied and challenging for LLMs. We propose a question-generation method from abstractive summaries and show that generating follow-up questions from summaries of long documents can create a challenging setting for LLMs to reason and infer from long contexts. Our experimental results confirm that: (1) our proposed method of generating questions from abstractive summaries pose a challenging setup for LLMs and shows performance gaps between LLMs like ChatGPT and open-source LLMs (Alpaca, Llama) (2) open-source LLMs exhibit decreased reliance on context for generated questions from the original document, but their generation capabilities drop significantly on generated questions from summaries -- especially for longer contexts (>1024 tokens) 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** UniST: Towards Unifying Saliency Transformer for Video Saliency  Prediction and Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08220  
**Abstract:** Video saliency prediction and detection are thriving research domains that enable computers to simulate the distribution of visual attention akin to how humans perceiving dynamic scenes. While many approaches have crafted task-specific training paradigms for either video saliency prediction or video salient object detection tasks, few attention has been devoted to devising a generalized saliency modeling framework that seamlessly bridges both these distinct tasks. In this study, we introduce the Unified Saliency Transformer (UniST) framework, which comprehensively utilizes the essential attributes of video saliency prediction and video salient object detection. In addition to extracting representations of frame sequences, a saliency-aware transformer is designed to learn the spatio-temporal representations at progressively increased resolutions, while incorporating effective cross-scale saliency information to produce a robust representation. Furthermore, a task-specific decoder is proposed to perform the final prediction for each task. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that explores designing a transformer structure for both saliency modeling tasks. Convincible experiments demonstrate that the proposed UniST achieves superior performance across seven challenging benchmarks for two tasks, and significantly outperforms the other state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Exploring the Potential of ChatGPT in Automated Code Refinement: An  Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08221  
**Abstract:** Code review is an essential activity for ensuring the quality and maintainability of software projects. However, it is a time-consuming and often error-prone task that can significantly impact the development process. Recently, ChatGPT, a cutting-edge language model, has demonstrated impressive performance in various natural language processing tasks, suggesting its potential to automate code review processes. However, it is still unclear how well ChatGPT performs in code review tasks. To fill this gap, in this paper, we conduct the first empirical study to understand the capabilities of ChatGPT in code review tasks, specifically focusing on automated code refinement based on given code reviews. To conduct the study, we select the existing benchmark CodeReview and construct a new code review dataset with high quality. We use CodeReviewer, a state-of-the-art code review tool, as a baseline for comparison with ChatGPT. Our results show that ChatGPT outperforms CodeReviewer in code refinement tasks. Specifically, our results show that ChatGPT achieves higher EM and BLEU scores of 22.78 and 76.44 respectively, while the state-of-the-art method achieves only 15.50 and 62.88 on a high-quality code review dataset. We further identify the root causes for ChatGPT's underperformance and propose several strategies to mitigate these challenges. Our study provides insights into the potential of ChatGPT in automating the code review process, and highlights the potential research directions. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Cartoondiff: Training-free Cartoon Image Generation with Diffusion  Transformer Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08251  
**Abstract:** Image cartoonization has attracted significant interest in the field of image generation. However, most of the existing image cartoonization techniques require re-training models using images of cartoon style. In this paper, we present CartoonDiff, a novel training-free sampling approach which generates image cartoonization using diffusion transformer models. Specifically, we decompose the reverse process of diffusion models into the semantic generation phase and the detail generation phase. Furthermore, we implement the image cartoonization process by normalizing high-frequency signal of the noisy image in specific denoising steps. CartoonDiff doesn't require any additional reference images, complex model designs, or the tedious adjustment of multiple parameters. Extensive experimental results show the powerful ability of our CartoonDiff. The project page is available at: https://cartoondiff.github.io/ 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** BROW: Better featuRes fOr Whole slide image based on self-distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08259  
**Abstract:** Whole slide image (WSI) processing is becoming part of the key components of standard clinical diagnosis for various diseases. However, the direct application of conventional image processing algorithms to WSI faces certain obstacles because of WSIs' distinct property: the super-high resolution. The performance of most WSI-related tasks relies on the efficacy of the backbone which extracts WSI patch feature representations. Hence, we proposed BROW, a foundation model for extracting better feature representations for WSIs, which can be conveniently adapted to downstream tasks without or with slight fine-tuning. The model takes transformer architecture, pretrained using self-distillation framework. To improve model's robustness, techniques such as patch shuffling have been employed. Additionally, the model leverages the unique properties of WSIs, utilizing WSI's multi-scale pyramid to incorporate an additional global view, thereby further enhancing its performance. We used both private and public data to make up a large pretraining dataset, containing more than 11000 slides, over 180M extracted patches, encompassing WSIs related to various organs and tissues. To assess the effectiveness of \ourmodel, we run a wide range of downstream tasks, including slide-level subtyping, patch-level classification and nuclei instance segmentation. The results confirmed the efficacy, robustness and good generalization ability of the proposed model. This substantiates its potential as foundation model for WSI feature extraction and highlights promising prospects for its application in WSI processing. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Leveraging the Power of Data Augmentation for Transformer-based Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08264  
**Abstract:** Due to long-distance correlation and powerful pretrained models, transformer-based methods have initiated a breakthrough in visual object tracking performance. Previous works focus on designing effective architectures suited for tracking, but ignore that data augmentation is equally crucial for training a well-performing model. In this paper, we first explore the impact of general data augmentations on transformer-based trackers via systematic experiments, and reveal the limited effectiveness of these common strategies. Motivated by experimental observations, we then propose two data augmentation methods customized for tracking. First, we optimize existing random cropping via a dynamic search radius mechanism and simulation for boundary samples. Second, we propose a token-level feature mixing augmentation strategy, which enables the model against challenges like background interference. Extensive experiments on two transformer-based trackers and six benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness and data efficiency of our methods, especially under challenging settings, like one-shot tracking and small image resolutions. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Unsupervised Disentangling of Facial Representations with 3D-aware  Latent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08273  
**Abstract:** Unsupervised learning of facial representations has gained increasing attention for face understanding ability without heavily relying on large-scale annotated datasets. However, it remains unsolved due to the coupling of facial identities, expressions, and external factors like pose and light. Prior methods primarily focus on 2D factors and pixel-level consistency, leading to incomplete disentangling and suboptimal performance in downstream tasks. In this paper, we propose LatentFace, a novel unsupervised disentangling framework for facial expression and identity representation. We suggest the disentangling problem should be performed in latent space and propose the solution using a 3D-ware latent diffusion model. First, we introduce a 3D-aware autoencoder to encode face images into 3D latent embeddings. Second, we propose a novel representation diffusion model (RDM) to disentangle 3D latent into facial identity and expression. Consequently, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in facial expression recognition and face verification among unsupervised facial representation learning models. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** A Finite-Volume Scheme for Fractional Diffusion on Bounded Domains  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08283  
**Abstract:** We propose a new fractional Laplacian for bounded domains, expressed as a conservation law and thus particularly suited to finite-volume schemes. Our approach permits the direct prescription of no-flux boundary conditions. We first show the well-posedness theory for the fractional heat equation. We also develop a numerical scheme, which correctly captures the action of the fractional Laplacian and its anomalous diffusion effect. We benchmark numerical solutions for the L\'evy-Fokker-Planck equation against known analytical solutions. We conclude by numerically exploring properties of these equations with respect to their stationary states and long-time asymptotics. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Large Intestine 3D Shape Refinement Using Point Diffusion Models for  Digital Phantom Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08289  
**Abstract:** Accurate 3D modeling of human organs plays a crucial role in building computational phantoms for virtual imaging trials. However, generating anatomically plausible reconstructions of organ surfaces from computed tomography scans remains challenging for many structures in the human body. This challenge is particularly evident when dealing with the large intestine. In this study, we leverage recent advancements in geometric deep learning and denoising diffusion probabilistic models to refine the segmentation results of the large intestine. We begin by representing the organ as point clouds sampled from the surface of the 3D segmentation mask. Subsequently, we employ a hierarchical variational autoencoder to obtain global and local latent representations of the organ's shape. We train two conditional denoising diffusion models in the hierarchical latent space to perform shape refinement. To further enhance our method, we incorporate a state-of-the-art surface reconstruction model, allowing us to generate smooth meshes from the obtained complete point clouds. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in capturing both the global distribution of the organ's shape and its fine details. Our complete refinement pipeline demonstrates remarkable enhancements in surface representation compared to the initial segmentation, reducing the Chamfer distance by 70%, the Hausdorff distance by 32%, and the Earth Mover's distance by 6%. By combining geometric deep learning, denoising diffusion models, and advanced surface reconstruction techniques, our proposed method offers a promising solution for accurately modeling the large intestine's surface and can easily be extended to other anatomical structures. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** M$^3$Net: Multilevel, Mixed and Multistage Attention Network for Salient  Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08365  
**Abstract:** Most existing salient object detection methods mostly use U-Net or feature pyramid structure, which simply aggregates feature maps of different scales, ignoring the uniqueness and interdependence of them and their respective contributions to the final prediction. To overcome these, we propose the M$^3$Net, i.e., the Multilevel, Mixed and Multistage attention network for Salient Object Detection (SOD). Firstly, we propose Multiscale Interaction Block which innovatively introduces the cross-attention approach to achieve the interaction between multilevel features, allowing high-level features to guide low-level feature learning and thus enhancing salient regions. Secondly, considering the fact that previous Transformer based SOD methods locate salient regions only using global self-attention while inevitably overlooking the details of complex objects, we propose the Mixed Attention Block. This block combines global self-attention and window self-attention, aiming at modeling context at both global and local levels to further improve the accuracy of the prediction map. Finally, we proposed a multilevel supervision strategy to optimize the aggregated feature stage-by-stage. Experiments on six challenging datasets demonstrate that the proposed M$^3$Net surpasses recent CNN and Transformer-based SOD arts in terms of four metrics. Codes are available at https://github.com/I2-Multimedia-Lab/M3Net. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Exploring Meta Information for Audio-based Zero-shot Bird Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08398  
**Abstract:** Advances in passive acoustic monitoring and machine learning have led to the procurement of vast datasets for computational bioacoustic research. Nevertheless, data scarcity is still an issue for rare and underrepresented species. This study investigates how meta-information can improve zero-shot audio classification, utilising bird species as an example case study due to the availability of rich and diverse metadata. We investigate three different sources of metadata: textual bird sound descriptions encoded via (S)BERT, functional traits (AVONET), and bird life-history (BLH) characteristics. As audio features, we extract audio spectrogram transformer (AST) embeddings and project them to the dimension of the auxiliary information by adopting a single linear layer. Then, we employ the dot product as compatibility function and a standard zero-shot learning ranking hinge loss to determine the correct class. The best results are achieved by concatenating the AVONET and BLH features attaining a mean F1-score of .233 over five different test sets with 8 to 10 classes. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** TOMAS: Topology Optimization of Multiscale Fluid Devices using  Variational Autoencoders and Super-Shapes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08435  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a framework for multiscale topology optimization of fluid-flow devices. The objective is to minimize dissipated power, subject to a desired contact-area. The proposed strategy is to design optimal microstructures in individual finite element cells, while simultaneously optimizing the overall fluid flow. In particular, parameterized super-shape microstructures are chosen here to represent microstructures since they exhibit a wide range of permeability and contact area. To avoid repeated homogenization, a finite set of these super-shapes are analyzed a priori, and a variational autoencoder (VAE) is trained on their fluid constitutive properties (permeability), contact area and shape parameters. The resulting differentiable latent space is integrated with a coordinate neural network to carry out a global multi-scale fluid flow optimization. The latent space enables the use of new microstructures that were not present in the original data-set. The proposed method is illustrated using numerous examples in 2D. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Advancing the Evaluation of Traditional Chinese Language Models: Towards  a Comprehensive Benchmark Suite  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08448  
**Abstract:** The evaluation of large language models is an essential task in the field of language understanding and generation. As language models continue to advance, the need for effective benchmarks to assess their performance has become imperative. In the context of Traditional Chinese, there is a scarcity of comprehensive and diverse benchmarks to evaluate the capabilities of language models, despite the existence of certain benchmarks such as DRCD, TTQA, CMDQA, and FGC dataset. To address this gap, we propose a novel set of benchmarks that leverage existing English datasets and are tailored to evaluate language models in Traditional Chinese. These benchmarks encompass a wide range of tasks, including contextual question-answering, summarization, classification, and table understanding. The proposed benchmarks offer a comprehensive evaluation framework, enabling the assessment of language models' capabilities across different tasks. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of GPT-3.5, Taiwan-LLaMa-v1.0, and Model 7-C, our proprietary model, on these benchmarks. The evaluation results highlight that our model, Model 7-C, achieves performance comparable to GPT-3.5 with respect to a part of the evaluated capabilities. In an effort to advance the evaluation of language models in Traditional Chinese and stimulate further research in this field, we have open-sourced our benchmark and opened the model for trial. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** VulnSense: Efficient Vulnerability Detection in Ethereum Smart Contracts  by Multimodal Learning with Graph Neural Network and Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08474  
**Abstract:** This paper presents VulnSense framework, a comprehensive approach to efficiently detect vulnerabilities in Ethereum smart contracts using a multimodal learning approach on graph-based and natural language processing (NLP) models. Our proposed framework combines three types of features from smart contracts comprising source code, opcode sequences, and control flow graph (CFG) extracted from bytecode. We employ Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (BiLSTM) and Graph Neural Network (GNN) models to extract and analyze these features. The final layer of our multimodal approach consists of a fully connected layer used to predict vulnerabilities in Ethereum smart contracts. Addressing limitations of existing vulnerability detection methods relying on single-feature or single-model deep learning techniques, our method surpasses accuracy and effectiveness constraints. We assess VulnSense using a collection of 1.769 smart contracts derived from the combination of three datasets: Curated, SolidiFI-Benchmark, and Smartbugs Wild. We then make a comparison with various unimodal and multimodal learning techniques contributed by GNN, BiLSTM and BERT architectures. The experimental outcomes demonstrate the superior performance of our proposed approach, achieving an average accuracy of 77.96\% across all three categories of vulnerable smart contracts. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** MOSAIC: Learning Unified Multi-Sensory Object Property Representations  for Robot Perception  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08508  
**Abstract:** A holistic understanding of object properties across diverse sensory modalities (e.g., visual, audio, and haptic) is essential for tasks ranging from object categorization to complex manipulation. Drawing inspiration from cognitive science studies that emphasize the significance of multi-sensory integration in human perception, we introduce MOSAIC (Multi-modal Object property learning with Self-Attention and Integrated Comprehension), a novel framework designed to facilitate the learning of unified multi-sensory object property representations. While it is undeniable that visual information plays a prominent role, we acknowledge that many fundamental object properties extend beyond the visual domain to encompass attributes like texture, mass distribution, or sounds, which significantly influence how we interact with objects. In MOSAIC, we leverage this profound insight by distilling knowledge from the extensive pre-trained Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) model, aligning these representations not only across vision but also haptic and auditory sensory modalities. Through extensive experiments on a dataset where a humanoid robot interacts with 100 objects across 10 exploratory behaviors, we demonstrate the versatility of MOSAIC in two task families: object categorization and object-fetching tasks. Our results underscore the efficacy of MOSAIC's unified representations, showing competitive performance in category recognition through a simple linear probe setup and excelling in the fetch object task under zero-shot transfer conditions. This work pioneers the application of CLIP-based sensory grounding in robotics, promising a significant leap in multi-sensory perception capabilities for autonomous systems. We have released the code, datasets, and additional results: https://github.com/gtatiya/MOSAIC. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Breathing New Life into 3D Assets with Generative Repainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08523  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based text-to-image models ignited immense attention from the vision community, artists, and content creators. Broad adoption of these models is due to significant improvement in the quality of generations and efficient conditioning on various modalities, not just text. However, lifting the rich generative priors of these 2D models into 3D is challenging. Recent works have proposed various pipelines powered by the entanglement of diffusion models and neural fields. We explore the power of pretrained 2D diffusion models and standard 3D neural radiance fields as independent, standalone tools and demonstrate their ability to work together in a non-learned fashion. Such modularity has the intrinsic advantage of eased partial upgrades, which became an important property in such a fast-paced domain. Our pipeline accepts any legacy renderable geometry, such as textured or untextured meshes, orchestrates the interaction between 2D generative refinement and 3D consistency enforcement tools, and outputs a painted input geometry in several formats. We conduct a large-scale study on a wide range of objects and categories from the ShapeNetSem dataset and demonstrate the advantages of our approach, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Project page: https://www.obukhov.ai/repainting_3d_assets 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Connecting Large Language Models with Evolutionary Algorithms Yields  Powerful Prompt Optimizers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08532  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in various tasks, but they rely on carefully crafted prompts that often demand substantial human effort. To automate this process, in this paper, we propose a novel framework for discrete prompt optimization, called EvoPrompt, which borrows the idea of evolutionary algorithms (EAs) as they exhibit good performance and fast convergence. To enable EAs to work on discrete prompts, which are natural language expressions that need to be coherent and human-readable, we connect LLMs with EAs. This approach allows us to simultaneously leverage the powerful language processing capabilities of LLMs and the efficient optimization performance of EAs. Specifically, abstaining from any gradients or parameters, EvoPrompt starts from a population of prompts and iteratively generates new prompts with LLMs based on the evolutionary operators, improving the population based on the development set. We optimize prompts for both closed- and open-source LLMs including GPT-3.5 and Alpaca, on 9 datasets spanning language understanding and generation tasks. EvoPrompt significantly outperforms human-engineered prompts and existing methods for automatic prompt generation by up to 25% and 14% respectively. Furthermore, EvoPrompt demonstrates that connecting LLMs with EAs creates synergies, which could inspire further research on the combination of LLMs and conventional algorithms. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Deep Reinforcement Learning for Efficient and Fair Allocation of Health  Care Resources  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08560  
**Abstract:** Scarcity of health care resources could result in the unavoidable consequence of rationing. For example, ventilators are often limited in supply, especially during public health emergencies or in resource-constrained health care settings, such as amid the pandemic of COVID-19. Currently, there is no universally accepted standard for health care resource allocation protocols, resulting in different governments prioritizing patients based on various criteria and heuristic-based protocols. In this study, we investigate the use of reinforcement learning for critical care resource allocation policy optimization to fairly and effectively ration resources. We propose a transformer-based deep Q-network to integrate the disease progression of individual patients and the interaction effects among patients during the critical care resource allocation. We aim to improve both fairness of allocation and overall patient outcomes. Our experiments demonstrate that our method significantly reduces excess deaths and achieves a more equitable distribution under different levels of ventilator shortage, when compared to existing severity-based and comorbidity-based methods in use by different governments. Our source code is included in the supplement and will be released on Github upon publication. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models for Hardware-Impaired  Communications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08568  
**Abstract:** Generative AI has received significant attention among a spectrum of diverse industrial and academic domains, thanks to the magnificent results achieved from deep generative models such as generative pre-trained transformers (GPT) and diffusion models. In this paper, we explore the applications of denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) in wireless communication systems under practical assumptions such as hardware impairments (HWI), low-SNR regime, and quantization error. Diffusion models are a new class of state-of-the-art generative models that have already showcased notable success with some of the popular examples by OpenAI and Google Brain. The intuition behind DDPM is to decompose the data generation process over small "denoising" steps. Inspired by this, we propose using denoising diffusion model-based receiver for a practical wireless communication scheme, while providing network resilience in low-SNR regimes, non-Gaussian noise, different HWI levels, and quantization error. We evaluate the reconstruction performance of our scheme in terms of bit error rate (BER) and mean-squared error (MSE). Our results show that 30% and 20% improvement in BER could be achieved compared to deep neural network (DNN)-based receivers in AWGN and non-Gaussian scenarios, respectively. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Casteist but Not Racist? Quantifying Disparities in Large Language Model  Bias between India and the West  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08573  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), now used daily by millions of users, can encode societal biases, exposing their users to representational harms. A large body of scholarship on LLM bias exists but it predominantly adopts a Western-centric frame and attends comparatively less to bias levels and potential harms in the Global South. In this paper, we quantify stereotypical bias in popular LLMs according to an Indian-centric frame and compare bias levels between the Indian and Western contexts. To do this, we develop a novel dataset which we call Indian-BhED (Indian Bias Evaluation Dataset), containing stereotypical and anti-stereotypical examples for caste and religion contexts. We find that the majority of LLMs tested are strongly biased towards stereotypes in the Indian context, especially as compared to the Western context. We finally investigate Instruction Prompting as a simple intervention to mitigate such bias and find that it significantly reduces both stereotypical and anti-stereotypical biases in the majority of cases for GPT-3.5. The findings of this work highlight the need for including more diverse voices when evaluating LLMs. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** ICLEF: In-Context Learning with Expert Feedback for Explainable Style  Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08583  
**Abstract:** While state-of-the-art language models excel at the style transfer task, current work does not address explainability of style transfer systems. Explanations could be generated using large language models such as GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, but the use of such complex systems is inefficient when smaller, widely distributed, and transparent alternatives are available. We propose a framework to augment and improve a formality style transfer dataset with explanations via model distillation from ChatGPT. To further refine the generated explanations, we propose a novel way to incorporate scarce expert human feedback using in-context learning (ICLEF: In-Context Learning from Expert Feedback) by prompting ChatGPT to act as a critic to its own outputs. We use the resulting dataset of 9,960 explainable formality style transfer instances (e-GYAFC) to show that current openly distributed instruction-tuned models (and, in some settings, ChatGPT) perform poorly on the task, and that fine-tuning on our high-quality dataset leads to significant improvements as shown by automatic evaluation. In human evaluation, we show that models much smaller than ChatGPT fine-tuned on our data align better with expert preferences. Finally, we discuss two potential applications of models fine-tuned on the explainable style transfer task: interpretable authorship verification and interpretable adversarial attacks on AI-generated text detectors. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Compositional Foundation Models for Hierarchical Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08587  
**Abstract:** To make effective decisions in novel environments with long-horizon goals, it is crucial to engage in hierarchical reasoning across spatial and temporal scales. This entails planning abstract subgoal sequences, visually reasoning about the underlying plans, and executing actions in accordance with the devised plan through visual-motor control. We propose Compositional Foundation Models for Hierarchical Planning (HiP), a foundation model which leverages multiple expert foundation model trained on language, vision and action data individually jointly together to solve long-horizon tasks. We use a large language model to construct symbolic plans that are grounded in the environment through a large video diffusion model. Generated video plans are then grounded to visual-motor control, through an inverse dynamics model that infers actions from generated videos. To enable effective reasoning within this hierarchy, we enforce consistency between the models via iterative refinement. We illustrate the efficacy and adaptability of our approach in three different long-horizon table-top manipulation tasks. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Attention-Only Transformers and Implementing MLPs with Attention Heads  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08593  
**Abstract:** The transformer architecture is widely used in machine learning models and consists of two alternating sublayers: attention heads and MLPs. We prove that an MLP neuron can be implemented by a masked attention head with internal dimension 1 so long as the MLP's activation function comes from a restricted class including SiLU and close approximations of ReLU and GeLU. This allows one to convert an MLP-and-attention transformer into an attention-only transformer at the cost of greatly increasing the number of attention heads. We also prove that attention heads can perform the components of an MLP (linear transformations and activation functions) separately. Finally, we prove that attention heads can encode arbitrary masking patterns in their weight matrices to within arbitrarily small error. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Robust e-NeRF: NeRF from Sparse & Noisy Events under Non-Uniform Motion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08596  
**Abstract:** Event cameras offer many advantages over standard cameras due to their distinctive principle of operation: low power, low latency, high temporal resolution and high dynamic range. Nonetheless, the success of many downstream visual applications also hinges on an efficient and effective scene representation, where Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is seen as the leading candidate. Such promise and potential of event cameras and NeRF inspired recent works to investigate on the reconstruction of NeRF from moving event cameras. However, these works are mainly limited in terms of the dependence on dense and low-noise event streams, as well as generalization to arbitrary contrast threshold values and camera speed profiles. In this work, we propose Robust e-NeRF, a novel method to directly and robustly reconstruct NeRFs from moving event cameras under various real-world conditions, especially from sparse and noisy events generated under non-uniform motion. It consists of two key components: a realistic event generation model that accounts for various intrinsic parameters (e.g. time-independent, asymmetric threshold and refractory period) and non-idealities (e.g. pixel-to-pixel threshold variation), as well as a complementary pair of normalized reconstruction losses that can effectively generalize to arbitrary speed profiles and intrinsic parameter values without such prior knowledge. Experiments on real and novel realistically simulated sequences verify our effectiveness. Our code, synthetic dataset and improved event simulator are public. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** M3Dsynth: A dataset of medical 3D images with AI-generated local  manipulations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07973  
**Abstract:** The ability to detect manipulated visual content is becoming increasingly important in many application fields, given the rapid advances in image synthesis methods. Of particular concern is the possibility of modifying the content of medical images, altering the resulting diagnoses. Despite its relevance, this issue has received limited attention from the research community. One reason is the lack of large and curated datasets to use for development and benchmarking purposes. Here, we investigate this issue and propose M3Dsynth, a large dataset of manipulated Computed Tomography (CT) lung images. We create manipulated images by injecting or removing lung cancer nodules in real CT scans, using three different methods based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) or Diffusion Models (DM), for a total of 8,577 manipulated samples. Experiments show that these images easily fool automated diagnostic tools. We also tested several state-of-the-art forensic detectors and demonstrated that, once trained on the proposed dataset, they are able to accurately detect and localize manipulated synthetic content, including when training and test sets are not aligned, showing good generalization ability. Dataset and code will be publicly available at https://grip-unina.github.io/M3Dsynth/. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** AV2Wav: Diffusion-Based Re-synthesis from Continuous Self-supervised  Features for Audio-Visual Speech Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08030  
**Abstract:** Speech enhancement systems are typically trained using pairs of clean and noisy speech. In audio-visual speech enhancement (AVSE), there is not as much ground-truth clean data available; most audio-visual datasets are collected in real-world environments with background noise and reverberation, hampering the development of AVSE. In this work, we introduce AV2Wav, a resynthesis-based audio-visual speech enhancement approach that can generate clean speech despite the challenges of real-world training data. We obtain a subset of nearly clean speech from an audio-visual corpus using a neural quality estimator, and then train a diffusion model on this subset to generate waveforms conditioned on continuous speech representations from AV-HuBERT with noise-robust training. We use continuous rather than discrete representations to retain prosody and speaker information. With this vocoding task alone, the model can perform speech enhancement better than a masking-based baseline. We further fine-tune the diffusion model on clean/noisy utterance pairs to improve the performance. Our approach outperforms a masking-based baseline in terms of both automatic metrics and a human listening test and is close in quality to the target speech in the listening test. Audio samples can be found at https://home.ttic.edu/~jcchou/demo/avse/avse_demo.html. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Increasing diversity of omni-directional images generated from single  image using cGAN based on MLPMixer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08129  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a novel approach to generating omni-directional images from a single snapshot picture. The previous method has relied on the generative adversarial networks based on convolutional neural networks (CNN). Although this method has successfully generated omni-directional images, CNN has two drawbacks for this task. First, since a convolutional layer only processes a local area, it is difficult to propagate the information of an input snapshot picture embedded in the center of the omni-directional image to the edges of the image. Thus, the omni-directional images created by the CNN-based generator tend to have less diversity at the edges of the generated images, creating similar scene images. Second, the CNN-based model requires large video memory in graphics processing units due to the nature of the deep structure in CNN since shallow-layer networks only receives signals from a limited range of the receptive field. To solve these problems, MLPMixer-based method was proposed in this paper. The MLPMixer has been proposed as an alternative to the self-attention in the transformer, which captures long-range dependencies and contextual information. This enables to propagate information efficiently in the omni-directional image generation task. As a result, competitive performance has been achieved with reduced memory consumption and computational cost, in addition to increasing diversity of the generated omni-directional images. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** PromptTTS++: Controlling Speaker Identity in Prompt-Based Text-to-Speech  Using Natural Language Descriptions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08140  
**Abstract:** We propose PromptTTS++, a prompt-based text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis system that allows control over speaker identity using natural language descriptions. To control speaker identity within the prompt-based TTS framework, we introduce the concept of speaker prompt, which describes voice characteristics (e.g., gender-neutral, young, old, and muffled) designed to be approximately independent of speaking style. Since there is no large-scale dataset containing speaker prompts, we first construct a dataset based on the LibriTTS-R corpus with manually annotated speaker prompts. We then employ a diffusion-based acoustic model with mixture density networks to model diverse speaker factors in the training data. Unlike previous studies that rely on style prompts describing only a limited aspect of speaker individuality, such as pitch, speaking speed, and energy, our method utilizes an additional speaker prompt to effectively learn the mapping from natural language descriptions to the acoustic features of diverse speakers. Our subjective evaluation results show that the proposed method can better control speaker characteristics than the methods without the speaker prompt. Audio samples are available at https://reppy4620.github.io/demo.promptttspp/. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Cross-Modal Synthesis of Structural MRI and Functional Connectivity  Networks via Conditional ViT-GANs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08160  
**Abstract:** The cross-modal synthesis between structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) and functional network connectivity (FNC) is a relatively unexplored area in medical imaging, especially with respect to schizophrenia. This study employs conditional Vision Transformer Generative Adversarial Networks (cViT-GANs) to generate FNC data based on sMRI inputs. After training on a comprehensive dataset that included both individuals with schizophrenia and healthy control subjects, our cViT-GAN model effectively synthesized the FNC matrix for each subject, and then formed a group difference FNC matrix, obtaining a Pearson correlation of 0.73 with the actual FNC matrix. In addition, our FNC visualization results demonstrate significant correlations in particular subcortical brain regions, highlighting the model's capability of capturing detailed structural-functional associations. This performance distinguishes our model from conditional CNN-based GAN alternatives such as Pix2Pix. Our research is one of the first attempts to link sMRI and FNC synthesis, setting it apart from other cross-modal studies that concentrate on T1- and T2-weighted MR images or the fusion of MRI and CT scans. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Diff-SV: A Unified Hierarchical Framework for Noise-Robust Speaker  Verification Using Score-Based Diffusion Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08320  
**Abstract:** Background noise considerably reduces the accuracy and reliability of speaker verification (SV) systems. These challenges can be addressed using a speech enhancement system as a front-end module. Recently, diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) have exhibited remarkable noise-compensation capabilities in the speech enhancement domain. Building on this success, we propose Diff-SV, a noise-robust SV framework that leverages DPM. Diff-SV unifies a DPM-based speech enhancement system with a speaker embedding extractor, and yields a discriminative and noise-tolerable speaker representation through a hierarchical structure. The proposed model was evaluated under both in-domain and out-of-domain noisy conditions using the VoxCeleb1 test set, an external noise source, and the VOiCES corpus. The obtained experimental results demonstrate that Diff-SV achieves state-of-the-art performance, outperforming recently proposed noise-robust SV systems. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Channel Estimation in Underdetermined Systems Utilizing Variational  Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08411  
**Abstract:** In this work, we propose to utilize a variational autoencoder (VAE) for channel estimation (CE) in underdetermined (UD) systems. The basis of the method forms a recently proposed concept in which a VAE is trained on channel state information (CSI) data and used to parameterize an approximation to the mean squared error (MSE)-optimal estimator. The contributions in this work extend the existing framework from fully-determined (FD) to UD systems, which are of high practical relevance. Particularly noteworthy is the extension of the estimator variant, which does not require perfect CSI during its offline training phase. This is a significant advantage compared to most other deep learning (DL)-based CE methods, where perfect CSI during the training phase is a crucial prerequisite. Numerical simulations for hybrid and wideband systems demonstrate the excellent performance of the proposed methods compared to related estimators. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Generalised Probabilistic Diffusion Scale-Spaces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08511  
**Abstract:** Probabilistic diffusion models excel at sampling new images from learned distributions. Originally motivated by drift-diffusion concepts from physics, they apply image perturbations such as noise and blur in a forward process that results in a tractable probability distribution. A corresponding learned reverse process generates images and can be conditioned on side information, which leads to a wide variety of practical applications. Most of the research focus currently lies on practice-oriented extensions. In contrast, the theoretical background remains largely unexplored, in particular the relations to drift-diffusion. In order to shed light on these connections to classical image filtering, we propose a generalised scale-space theory for probabilistic diffusion models. Moreover, we show conceptual and empirical connections to diffusion and osmosis filters. 

