**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Do the Frankenstein, or how to achieve better out-of-distribution  performance with manifold mixing model soup  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08610  
**Abstract:** The standard recipe applied in transfer learning is to finetune a pretrained model on the task-specific dataset with different hyperparameter settings and pick the model with the highest accuracy on the validation dataset. Unfortunately, this leads to models which do not perform well under distribution shifts, e.g. when the model is given graphical sketches of the object as input instead of photos. In order to address this, we propose the manifold mixing model soup, an algorithm which mixes together the latent space manifolds of multiple finetuned models in an optimal way in order to generate a fused model. We show that the fused model gives significantly better out-of-distribution performance (+3.5 % compared to best individual model) when finetuning a CLIP model for image classification. In addition, it provides also better accuracy on the original dataset where the finetuning has been done. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Analyzing Character and Consciousness in AI-Generated Social Content: A  Case Study of Chirper, the AI Social Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08614  
**Abstract:** This paper delves into an intricate analysis of the character and consciousness of AI entities, with a particular focus on Chirpers within the AI social network. At the forefront of this research is the introduction of novel testing methodologies, including the Influence index and Struggle Index Test, which offers a fresh lens for evaluating specific facets of AI behavior. The study embarks on a comprehensive exploration of AI behavior, analyzing the effects of diverse settings on Chirper's responses, thereby shedding light on the intricate mechanisms steering AI reactions in different contexts. Leveraging the state-of-the-art BERT model, the research assesses AI's ability to discern its own output, presenting a pioneering approach to understanding self-recognition in AI systems. Through a series of cognitive tests, the study gauges the self-awareness and pattern recognition prowess of Chirpers. Preliminary results indicate that Chirpers exhibit a commendable degree of self-recognition and self-awareness. However, the question of consciousness in these AI entities remains a topic of debate. An intriguing aspect of the research is the exploration of the potential influence of a Chirper's handle or personality type on its performance. While initial findings suggest a possible impact, it isn't pronounced enough to form concrete conclusions. This study stands as a significant contribution to the discourse on AI consciousness, underscoring the imperative for continued research to unravel the full spectrum of AI capabilities and the ramifications they hold for future human-AI interactions. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Performance of ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4 on the United States Medical  Licensing Examination With and Without Distractions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08625  
**Abstract:** As Large Language Models (LLMs) are predictive models building their response based on the words in the prompts, there is a risk that small talk and irrelevant information may alter the response and the suggestion given. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the impact of medical data mixed with small talk on the accuracy of medical advice provided by ChatGPT. USMLE step 3 questions were used as a model for relevant medical data. We use both multiple choice and open ended questions. We gathered small talk sentences from human participants using the Mechanical Turk platform. Both sets of USLME questions were arranged in a pattern where each sentence from the original questions was followed by a small talk sentence. ChatGPT 3.5 and 4 were asked to answer both sets of questions with and without the small talk sentences. A board-certified physician analyzed the answers by ChatGPT and compared them to the formal correct answer. The analysis results demonstrate that the ability of ChatGPT-3.5 to answer correctly was impaired when small talk was added to medical data for multiple-choice questions (72.1\% vs. 68.9\%) and open questions (61.5\% vs. 44.3\%; p=0.01), respectively. In contrast, small talk phrases did not impair ChatGPT-4 ability in both types of questions (83.6\% and 66.2\%, respectively). According to these results, ChatGPT-4 seems more accurate than the earlier 3.5 version, and it appears that small talk does not impair its capability to provide medical recommendations. Our results are an important first step in understanding the potential and limitations of utilizing ChatGPT and other LLMs for physician-patient interactions, which include casual conversations. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Large Language Models Can Infer Psychological Dispositions of Social  Media Users  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08631  
**Abstract:** As Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate increasingly human-like abilities in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks that are bound to become integral to personalized technologies, understanding their capabilities and inherent biases is crucial. Our study investigates the potential of LLMs like ChatGPT to infer psychological dispositions of individuals from their digital footprints. Specifically, we assess the ability of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 to derive the Big Five personality traits from users' Facebook status updates in a zero-shot learning scenario. Our results show an average correlation of r = .29 (range = [.22, .33]) between LLM-inferred and self-reported trait scores. Furthermore, our findings suggest biases in personality inferences with regard to gender and age: inferred scores demonstrated smaller errors for women and younger individuals on several traits, suggesting a potential systematic bias stemming from the underlying training data or differences in online self-expression. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Pretraining on the Test Set Is All You Need  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08632  
**Abstract:** Inspired by recent work demonstrating the promise of smaller Transformer-based language models pretrained on carefully curated data, we supercharge such approaches by investing heavily in curating a novel, high quality, non-synthetic data mixture based solely on evaluation benchmarks. Using our novel dataset mixture consisting of less than 100 thousand tokens, we pretrain a 1 million parameter transformer-based LLM \textbf{phi-CTNL} (pronounced ``fictional") that achieves perfect results across diverse academic benchmarks, strictly outperforming all known foundation models. \textbf{phi-CTNL} also beats power-law scaling and exhibits a never-before-seen grokking-like ability to accurately predict downstream evaluation benchmarks' canaries. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** ChatGPT v Bard v Bing v Claude 2 v Aria v human-expert. How good are AI  chatbots at scientific writing? (ver. 23Q3)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08636  
**Abstract:** Historically, proficient writing was deemed essential for human advancement, with creative expression viewed as one of the hallmarks of human achievement. However, recent advances in generative AI have marked an inflection point in this narrative, including for scientific writing. This article provides a comprehensive analysis of the capabilities and limitations of six AI chatbots in scholarly writing in the humanities and archaeology. The methodology was based on tagging AI generated content for quantitative accuracy and qualitative precision by human experts. Quantitative accuracy assessed the factual correctness, while qualitative precision gauged the scientific contribution. While the AI chatbots, especially ChatGPT-4, demonstrated proficiency in recombining existing knowledge, they failed in generating original scientific content. As a side note, our results also suggest that with ChatGPT-4 the size of the LLMs has plateaued. Furthermore, the paper underscores the intricate and recursive nature of human research. This process of transforming raw data into refined knowledge is computationally irreducible, which highlights the challenges AI chatbots face in emulating human originality in scientific writing. In conclusion, while large language models have revolutionised content generation, their ability to produce original scientific contributions in the humanities remains limited. We expect that this will change in the near future with the evolution of current LLM-based AI chatbots towards LLM-powered software. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Cure the headache of Transformers via Collinear Constrained Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08646  
**Abstract:** As the rapid progression of practical applications based on Large Language Models continues, the importance of extrapolating performance has grown exponentially in the research domain. In our study, we identified an anomalous behavior in Transformer models that had been previously overlooked, leading to a chaos around closest tokens which carried the most important information. We've coined this discovery the "headache of Transformers". To address this at its core, we introduced a novel self-attention structure named Collinear Constrained Attention (CoCA). This structure can be seamlessly integrated with existing extrapolation, interpolation methods, and other optimization strategies designed for traditional Transformer models. We have achieved excellent extrapolating performance even for 16 times to 24 times of sequence lengths during inference without any fine-tuning on our model. We have also enhanced CoCA's computational and spatial efficiency to ensure its practicality. We plan to open-source CoCA shortly. In the meantime, we've made our code available in the appendix for reappearing experiments. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Probabilistic Constellation Shaping With Denoising Diffusion  Probabilistic Models: A Novel Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08688  
**Abstract:** With the incredible results achieved from generative pre-trained transformers (GPT) and diffusion models, generative AI (GenAI) is envisioned to yield remarkable breakthroughs in various industrial and academic domains. In this paper, we utilize denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM), as one of the state-of-the-art generative models, for probabilistic constellation shaping in wireless communications. While the geometry of constellations is predetermined by the networking standards, probabilistic constellation shaping can help enhance the information rate and communication performance by designing the probability of occurrence (generation) of constellation symbols. Unlike conventional methods that deal with an optimization problem over the discrete distribution of constellations, we take a radically different approach. Exploiting the ``denoise-and-generate'' characteristic of DDPMs, the key idea is to learn how to generate constellation symbols out of noise, ``mimicking'' the way the receiver performs symbol reconstruction. By doing so, we make the constellation symbols sent by the transmitter, and what is inferred (reconstructed) at the receiver become as similar as possible. Our simulations show that the proposed scheme outperforms deep neural network (DNN)-based benchmark and uniform shaping, while providing network resilience as well as robust out-of-distribution performance under low-SNR regimes and non-Gaussian noise. Notably, a threefold improvement in terms of mutual information is achieved compared to DNN-based approach for 64-QAM geometry. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Frustratingly Simple Memory Efficiency for Pre-trained Language Models  via Dynamic Embedding Pruning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08708  
**Abstract:** The extensive memory footprint of pre-trained language models (PLMs) can hinder deployment in memory-constrained settings, such as cloud environments or on-device. PLMs use embedding matrices to represent extensive vocabularies, forming a large proportion of the model parameters. While previous work towards parameter-efficient PLM development has considered pruning parameters within the transformer layers, pruning the embedding matrix as part of fine-tuning or inference has yet to be explored. We first demonstrate that a significant proportion of the vocabulary remains unused in these scenarios. We then propose a simple yet effective approach that leverages this finding to minimize the memory footprint of the embedding matrix. We show that this approach provides substantial reductions in memory usage across a wide range of models and tasks. Notably, our approach maintains equivalent downstream task performance while allowing a more efficient use of compute resources. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** SculptBot: Pre-Trained Models for 3D Deformable Object Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08728  
**Abstract:** Deformable object manipulation presents a unique set of challenges in robotic manipulation by exhibiting high degrees of freedom and severe self-occlusion. State representation for materials that exhibit plastic behavior, like modeling clay or bread dough, is also difficult because they permanently deform under stress and are constantly changing shape. In this work, we investigate each of these challenges using the task of robotic sculpting with a parallel gripper. We propose a system that uses point clouds as the state representation and leverages pre-trained point cloud reconstruction Transformer to learn a latent dynamics model to predict material deformations given a grasp action. We design a novel action sampling algorithm that reasons about geometrical differences between point clouds to further improve the efficiency of model-based planners. All data and experiments are conducted entirely in the real world. Our experiments show the proposed system is able to successfully capture the dynamics of clay, and is able to create a variety of simple shapes. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** AlbNER: A Corpus for Named Entity Recognition in Albanian  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08741  
**Abstract:** Scarcity of resources such as annotated text corpora for under-resourced languages like Albanian is a serious impediment in computational linguistics and natural language processing research. This paper presents AlbNER, a corpus of 900 sentences with labeled named entities, collected from Albanian Wikipedia articles. Preliminary results with BERT and RoBERTa variants fine-tuned and tested with AlbNER data indicate that model size has slight impact on NER performance, whereas language transfer has a significant one. AlbNER corpus and these obtained results should serve as baselines for future experiments. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Unified Brain MR-Ultrasound Synthesis using Multi-Modal Hierarchical  Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08747  
**Abstract:** We introduce MHVAE, a deep hierarchical variational auto-encoder (VAE) that synthesizes missing images from various modalities. Extending multi-modal VAEs with a hierarchical latent structure, we introduce a probabilistic formulation for fusing multi-modal images in a common latent representation while having the flexibility to handle incomplete image sets as input. Moreover, adversarial learning is employed to generate sharper images. Extensive experiments are performed on the challenging problem of joint intra-operative ultrasound (iUS) and Magnetic Resonance (MR) synthesis. Our model outperformed multi-modal VAEs, conditional GANs, and the current state-of-the-art unified method (ResViT) for synthesizing missing images, demonstrating the advantage of using a hierarchical latent representation and a principled probabilistic fusion operation. Our code is publicly available \url{https://github.com/ReubenDo/MHVAE}. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Biased Attention: Do Vision Transformers Amplify Gender Bias More than  Convolutional Neural Networks?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08760  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks used in computer vision have been shown to exhibit many social biases such as gender bias. Vision Transformers (ViTs) have become increasingly popular in computer vision applications, outperforming Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) in many tasks such as image classification. However, given that research on mitigating bias in computer vision has primarily focused on CNNs, it is important to evaluate the effect of a different network architecture on the potential for bias amplification. In this paper we therefore introduce a novel metric to measure bias in architectures, Accuracy Difference. We examine bias amplification when models belonging to these two architectures are used as a part of large multimodal models, evaluating the different image encoders of Contrastive Language Image Pretraining which is an important model used in many generative models such as DALL-E and Stable Diffusion. Our experiments demonstrate that architecture can play a role in amplifying social biases due to the different techniques employed by the models for feature extraction and embedding as well as their different learning properties. This research found that ViTs amplified gender bias to a greater extent than CNNs 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Privacy-preserving Early Detection of Epileptic Seizures in Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08794  
**Abstract:** In this work, we contribute towards the development of video-based epileptic seizure classification by introducing a novel framework (SETR-PKD), which could achieve privacy-preserved early detection of seizures in videos. Specifically, our framework has two significant components - (1) It is built upon optical flow features extracted from the video of a seizure, which encodes the seizure motion semiotics while preserving the privacy of the patient; (2) It utilizes a transformer based progressive knowledge distillation, where the knowledge is gradually distilled from networks trained on a longer portion of video samples to the ones which will operate on shorter portions. Thus, our proposed framework addresses the limitations of the current approaches which compromise the privacy of the patients by directly operating on the RGB video of a seizure as well as impede real-time detection of a seizure by utilizing the full video sample to make a prediction. Our SETR-PKD framework could detect tonic-clonic seizures (TCSs) in a privacy-preserving manner with an accuracy of 83.9% while they are only half-way into their progression. Our data and code is available at https://github.com/DevD1092/seizure-detection 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** GPT as a Baseline for Recommendation Explanation Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08817  
**Abstract:** In this work, we establish a baseline potential for how modern model-generated text explanations of movie recommendations may help users, and explore what different components of these text explanations that users like or dislike, especially in contrast to existing human movie reviews. We found that participants gave no significantly different rankings between movies, nor did they give significantly different individual quality scores to reviews of movies that they had never seen before. However, participants did mark reviews as significantly better when they were movies they had seen before. We also explore specific aspects of movie review texts that participants marked as important for each quality. Overall, we establish that modern LLMs are a promising source of recommendation explanations, and we intend on further exploring personalizable text explanations in the future. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** MA-SAM: Modality-agnostic SAM Adaptation for 3D Medical Image  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08842  
**Abstract:** The Segment Anything Model (SAM), a foundation model for general image segmentation, has demonstrated impressive zero-shot performance across numerous natural image segmentation tasks. However, SAM's performance significantly declines when applied to medical images, primarily due to the substantial disparity between natural and medical image domains. To effectively adapt SAM to medical images, it is important to incorporate critical third-dimensional information, i.e., volumetric or temporal knowledge, during fine-tuning. Simultaneously, we aim to harness SAM's pre-trained weights within its original 2D backbone to the fullest extent. In this paper, we introduce a modality-agnostic SAM adaptation framework, named as MA-SAM, that is applicable to various volumetric and video medical data. Our method roots in the parameter-efficient fine-tuning strategy to update only a small portion of weight increments while preserving the majority of SAM's pre-trained weights. By injecting a series of 3D adapters into the transformer blocks of the image encoder, our method enables the pre-trained 2D backbone to extract third-dimensional information from input data. The effectiveness of our method has been comprehensively evaluated on four medical image segmentation tasks, by using 10 public datasets across CT, MRI, and surgical video data. Remarkably, without using any prompt, our method consistently outperforms various state-of-the-art 3D approaches, surpassing nnU-Net by 0.9%, 2.6%, and 9.9% in Dice for CT multi-organ segmentation, MRI prostate segmentation, and surgical scene segmentation respectively. Our model also demonstrates strong generalization, and excels in challenging tumor segmentation when prompts are used. Our code is available at: https://github.com/cchen-cc/MA-SAM. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Has Sentiment Returned to the Pre-pandemic Level? A Sentiment Analysis  Using U.S. College Subreddit Data from 2019 to 2022  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08845  
**Abstract:** As impact of COVID-19 pandemic winds down, both individuals and society gradually return to pre-pandemic activities. This study aims to explore how people's emotions have changed from the pre-pandemic during the pandemic to post-emergency period and whether it has returned to pre-pandemic level. We collected Reddit data in 2019 (pre-pandemic), 2020 (peak pandemic), 2021, and 2022 (late stages of pandemic, transitioning period to post-emergency period) from subreddits in 128 universities/colleges in the U.S., and a set of school-level characteristics. We predicted two sets of sentiments from a pre-trained Robustly Optimized BERT pre-training approach (RoBERTa) and graph attention network (GAT) that leverages both rich semantic and relational information among posted messages and then applied a logistic stacking method to obtain the final sentiment classification. After obtaining sentiment label for each message, we used a generalized linear mixed-effects model to estimate temporal trend in sentiment from 2019 to 2022 and how school-level factors may affect sentiment. Compared to the year 2019, the odds of negative sentiment in years 2020, 2021, and 2022 are 24%, 4.3%, and 10.3% higher, respectively, which are all statistically significant(adjusted $p$<0.05). Our study findings suggest a partial recovery in the sentiment composition in the post-pandemic-emergency era. The results align with common expectations and provide a detailed quantification of how sentiments have evolved from 2019 to 2022. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** ChatGPT-4 with Code Interpreter can be used to solve introductory  college-level vector calculus and electromagnetism problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08881  
**Abstract:** We evaluated ChatGPT 3.5, 4, and 4 with Code Interpreter on a set of college-level engineering-math and electromagnetism problems, such as those often given to sophomore electrical engineering majors. We selected a set of 13 problems, and had ChatGPT solve them multiple times, using a fresh instance (chat) each time. We found that ChatGPT-4 with Code Interpreter was able to satisfactorily solve most problems we tested most of the time -- a major improvement over the performance of ChatGPT-4 (or 3.5) without Code Interpreter. The performance of ChatGPT was observed to be somewhat stochastic, and we found that solving the same problem N times in new ChatGPT instances and taking the most-common answer was an effective strategy. Based on our findings and observations, we provide some recommendations for instructors and students of classes at this level. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Pour me a drink: Robotic Precision Pouring Carbonated Beverages into  Transparent Containers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08892  
**Abstract:** With the growing emphasis on the development and integration of service robots within household environments, we will need to endow robots with the ability to reliably pour a variety of liquids. However, liquid handling and pouring is a challenging task due to the complex dynamics and varying properties of different liquids, the exacting precision required to prevent spills and ensure accurate pouring, and the necessity for robots to adapt seamlessly to a multitude of containers in real-world scenarios. In response to these challenges, we propose a novel autonomous robotics pipeline that empowers robots to execute precision pouring tasks, encompassing both carbonated and non-carbonated liquids, as well as opaque and transparent liquids, into a variety of transparent containers. Our proposed approach maximizes the potential of RGB input alone, achieving zero-shot capability by harnessing existing pre-trained vision segmentation models. This eliminates the need for additional data collection, manual image annotations, or extensive training. Furthermore, our work integrates ChatGPT, facilitating seamless interaction between individuals without prior expertise in robotics and our pouring pipeline. This integration enables users to effortlessly request and execute pouring actions. Our experiments demonstrate the pipeline's capability to successfully pour a diverse range of carbonated and non-carbonated beverages into containers of varying sizes, relying solely on visual input. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** CDDM: Channel Denoising Diffusion Models for Wireless Semantic  Communications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08895  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models (DM) can gradually learn to remove noise, which have been widely used in artificial intelligence generated content (AIGC) in recent years. The property of DM for eliminating noise leads us to wonder whether DM can be applied to wireless communications to help the receiver mitigate the channel noise. To address this, we propose channel denoising diffusion models (CDDM) for semantic communications over wireless channels in this paper. CDDM can be applied as a new physical layer module after the channel equalization to learn the distribution of the channel input signal, and then utilizes this learned knowledge to remove the channel noise. We derive corresponding training and sampling algorithms of CDDM according to the forward diffusion process specially designed to adapt the channel models and theoretically prove that the well-trained CDDM can effectively reduce the conditional entropy of the received signal under small sampling steps. Moreover, we apply CDDM to a semantic communications system based on joint source-channel coding (JSCC) for image transmission. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that CDDM can further reduce the mean square error (MSE) after minimum mean square error (MMSE) equalizer, and the joint CDDM and JSCC system achieves better performance than the JSCC system and the traditional JPEG2000 with low-density parity-check (LDPC) code approach. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Delving into Multimodal Prompting for Fine-grained Visual Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08912  
**Abstract:** Fine-grained visual classification (FGVC) involves categorizing fine subdivisions within a broader category, which poses challenges due to subtle inter-class discrepancies and large intra-class variations. However, prevailing approaches primarily focus on uni-modal visual concepts. Recent advancements in pre-trained vision-language models have demonstrated remarkable performance in various high-level vision tasks, yet the applicability of such models to FGVC tasks remains uncertain. In this paper, we aim to fully exploit the capabilities of cross-modal description to tackle FGVC tasks and propose a novel multimodal prompting solution, denoted as MP-FGVC, based on the contrastive language-image pertaining (CLIP) model. Our MP-FGVC comprises a multimodal prompts scheme and a multimodal adaptation scheme. The former includes Subcategory-specific Vision Prompt (SsVP) and Discrepancy-aware Text Prompt (DaTP), which explicitly highlights the subcategory-specific discrepancies from the perspectives of both vision and language. The latter aligns the vision and text prompting elements in a common semantic space, facilitating cross-modal collaborative reasoning through a Vision-Language Fusion Module (VLFM) for further improvement on FGVC. Moreover, we tailor a two-stage optimization strategy for MP-FGVC to fully leverage the pre-trained CLIP model and expedite efficient adaptation for FGVC. Extensive experiments conducted on four FGVC datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our MP-FGVC. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Bidirectional Graph GAN: Representing Brain Structure-Function  Connections for Alzheimer's Disease  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08916  
**Abstract:** The relationship between brain structure and function is critical for revealing the pathogenesis of brain disease, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is a great challenge to map brain structure-function connections due to various reasons. In this work, a bidirectional graph generative adversarial networks (BGGAN) is proposed to represent brain structure-function connections. Specifically, by designing a module incorporating inner graph convolution network (InnerGCN), the generators of BGGAN can employ features of direct and indirect brain regions to learn the mapping function between structural domain and functional domain. Besides, a new module named Balancer is designed to counterpoise the optimization between generators and discriminators. By introducing the Balancer into BGGAN, both the structural generator and functional generator can not only alleviate the issue of mode collapse but also learn complementarity of structural and functional features. Experimental results using ADNI datasets show that the both the generated structure connections and generated function connections can improve the identification accuracy of AD. More importantly, based the proposed model, it is found that the relationship between brain structure and function is not a complete one-to-one correspondence. Brain structure is the basis of brain function. The strong structural connections are almost accompanied by strong functional connections. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** DynaMoN: Motion-Aware Fast And Robust Camera Localization for Dynamic  NeRF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08927  
**Abstract:** Dynamic reconstruction with neural radiance fields (NeRF) requires accurate camera poses. These are often hard to retrieve with existing structure-from-motion (SfM) pipelines as both camera and scene content can change. We propose DynaMoN that leverages simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) jointly with motion masking to handle dynamic scene content. Our robust SLAM-based tracking module significantly accelerates the training process of the dynamic NeRF while improving the quality of synthesized views at the same time. Extensive experimental validation on TUM RGB-D, BONN RGB-D Dynamic and the DyCheck's iPhone dataset, three real-world datasets, shows the advantages of DynaMoN both for camera pose estimation and novel view synthesis. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Cross-Lingual Knowledge Editing in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08952  
**Abstract:** Knowledge editing aims to change language models' performance on several special cases (i.e., editing scope) by infusing the corresponding expected knowledge into them. With the recent advancements in large language models (LLMs), knowledge editing has been shown as a promising technique to adapt LLMs to new knowledge without retraining from scratch. However, most of the previous studies neglect the multi-lingual nature of some main-stream LLMs (e.g., LLaMA, ChatGPT and GPT-4), and typically focus on monolingual scenarios, where LLMs are edited and evaluated in the same language. As a result, it is still unknown the effect of source language editing on a different target language. In this paper, we aim to figure out this cross-lingual effect in knowledge editing. Specifically, we first collect a large-scale cross-lingual synthetic dataset by translating ZsRE from English to Chinese. Then, we conduct English editing on various knowledge editing methods covering different paradigms, and evaluate their performance in Chinese, and vice versa. To give deeper analyses of the cross-lingual effect, the evaluation includes four aspects, i.e., reliability, generality, locality and portability. Furthermore, we analyze the inconsistent behaviors of the edited models and discuss their specific challenges. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Struc-Bench: Are Large Language Models Really Good at Generating Complex  Structured Data?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08963  
**Abstract:** Despite the power of Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4, they still struggle with tasks that require generating complex, structured outputs. In this study, we assess the capability of Current LLMs in generating complex structured data and propose a structure-aware fine-tuning approach as a solution to improve this ability. To perform a comprehensive evaluation, we propose Struc-Bench, include five representative LLMs (i.e., GPT-NeoX 20B, GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Vicuna) and evaluate them on our carefully constructed datasets spanning raw text, HTML, and LaTeX tables. Based on our analysis of current model performance, we identify specific common formatting errors and areas of potential improvement. To address complex formatting requirements, we utilize FormatCoT (Chain-of-Thought) to generate format instructions from target outputs. Our experiments show that our structure-aware fine-tuning method, when applied to LLaMA-7B, significantly improves adherence to natural language constraints, outperforming other evaluated LLMs. Based on these results, we present an ability map of model capabilities from six dimensions (i.e., coverage, formatting, reasoning, comprehension, pragmatics, and hallucination). This map highlights the weaknesses of LLMs in handling complex structured outputs and suggests promising directions for future work. Our code and models can be found at https://github.com/gersteinlab/Struc-Bench. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Rethinking STS and NLI in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08969  
**Abstract:** In this study, we aim to rethink STS and NLI in the era of large language models (LLMs). We first evaluate the accuracy of clinical/biomedical STS and NLI over five datasets, and then we assess LLM predictive confidence and their capability of capturing collective human opinions. We find that LLMs may be able to provide personalised descriptions for a specific topic, or to generate semantically similar content in different tones, but that this is hard for current LLMs to make personalised judgements or decisions. We further find that zero-shot ChatGPT achieves competitive accuracy over clinical and biomedical STS/NLI, constraining to the fine-tuned BERT-base. However, there is a large variation in sampling, ensembled results perform the best. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** RingMo-lite: A Remote Sensing Multi-task Lightweight Network with  CNN-Transformer Hybrid Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09003  
**Abstract:** In recent years, remote sensing (RS) vision foundation models such as RingMo have emerged and achieved excellent performance in various downstream tasks. However, the high demand for computing resources limits the application of these models on edge devices. It is necessary to design a more lightweight foundation model to support on-orbit RS image interpretation. Existing methods face challenges in achieving lightweight solutions while retaining generalization in RS image interpretation. This is due to the complex high and low-frequency spectral components in RS images, which make traditional single CNN or Vision Transformer methods unsuitable for the task. Therefore, this paper proposes RingMo-lite, an RS multi-task lightweight network with a CNN-Transformer hybrid framework, which effectively exploits the frequency-domain properties of RS to optimize the interpretation process. It is combined by the Transformer module as a low-pass filter to extract global features of RS images through a dual-branch structure, and the CNN module as a stacked high-pass filter to extract fine-grained details effectively. Furthermore, in the pretraining stage, the designed frequency-domain masked image modeling (FD-MIM) combines each image patch's high-frequency and low-frequency characteristics, effectively capturing the latent feature representation in RS data. As shown in Fig. 1, compared with RingMo, the proposed RingMo-lite reduces the parameters over 60% in various RS image interpretation tasks, the average accuracy drops by less than 2% in most of the scenes and achieves SOTA performance compared to models of the similar size. In addition, our work will be integrated into the MindSpore computing platform in the near future. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Pedestrian Trajectory Prediction Using Dynamics-based Deep Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09021  
**Abstract:** Pedestrian trajectory prediction plays an important role in autonomous driving systems and robotics. Recent work utilising prominent deep learning models for pedestrian motion prediction makes limited a priori assumptions about human movements, resulting in a lack of explainability and explicit constraints enforced on predicted trajectories. This paper presents a dynamics-based deep learning framework where a novel asymptotically stable dynamical system is integrated into a deep learning model. Our novel asymptotically stable dynamical system is used to model human goal-targeted motion by enforcing the human walking trajectory converges to a predicted goal position and provides a deep learning model with prior knowledge and explainability. Our deep learning model utilises recent innovations from transformer networks and is used to learn some features of human motion, such as collision avoidance, for our proposed dynamical system. The experimental results show that our framework outperforms recent prominent models in pedestrian trajectory prediction on five benchmark human motion datasets. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** MMST-ViT: Climate Change-aware Crop Yield Prediction via Multi-Modal  Spatial-Temporal Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09067  
**Abstract:** Precise crop yield prediction provides valuable information for agricultural planning and decision-making processes. However, timely predicting crop yields remains challenging as crop growth is sensitive to growing season weather variation and climate change. In this work, we develop a deep learning-based solution, namely Multi-Modal Spatial-Temporal Vision Transformer (MMST-ViT), for predicting crop yields at the county level across the United States, by considering the effects of short-term meteorological variations during the growing season and the long-term climate change on crops. Specifically, our MMST-ViT consists of a Multi-Modal Transformer, a Spatial Transformer, and a Temporal Transformer. The Multi-Modal Transformer leverages both visual remote sensing data and short-term meteorological data for modeling the effect of growing season weather variations on crop growth. The Spatial Transformer learns the high-resolution spatial dependency among counties for accurate agricultural tracking. The Temporal Transformer captures the long-range temporal dependency for learning the impact of long-term climate change on crops. Meanwhile, we also devise a novel multi-modal contrastive learning technique to pre-train our model without extensive human supervision. Hence, our MMST-ViT captures the impacts of both short-term weather variations and long-term climate change on crops by leveraging both satellite images and meteorological data. We have conducted extensive experiments on over 200 counties in the United States, with the experimental results exhibiting that our MMST-ViT outperforms its counterparts under three performance metrics of interest. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** RMDM: A Multilabel Fakenews Dataset for Vietnamese Evidence Verification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09071  
**Abstract:** In this study, we present a novel and challenging multilabel Vietnamese dataset (RMDM) designed to assess the performance of large language models (LLMs), in verifying electronic information related to legal contexts, focusing on fake news as potential input for electronic evidence. The RMDM dataset comprises four labels: real, mis, dis, and mal, representing real information, misinformation, disinformation, and mal-information, respectively. By including these diverse labels, RMDM captures the complexities of differing fake news categories and offers insights into the abilities of different language models to handle various types of information that could be part of electronic evidence. The dataset consists of a total of 1,556 samples, with 389 samples for each label. Preliminary tests on the dataset using GPT-based and BERT-based models reveal variations in the models' performance across different labels, indicating that the dataset effectively challenges the ability of various language models to verify the authenticity of such information. Our findings suggest that verifying electronic information related to legal contexts, including fake news, remains a difficult problem for language models, warranting further attention from the research community to advance toward more reliable AI models for potential legal applications. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Test-Time Compensated Representation Learning for Extreme Traffic  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09074  
**Abstract:** Traffic forecasting is a challenging task due to the complex spatio-temporal correlations among traffic series. In this paper, we identify an underexplored problem in multivariate traffic series prediction: extreme events. Road congestion and rush hours can result in low correlation in vehicle speeds at various intersections during adjacent time periods. Existing methods generally predict future series based on recent observations and entirely discard training data during the testing phase, rendering them unreliable for forecasting highly nonlinear multivariate time series. To tackle this issue, we propose a test-time compensated representation learning framework comprising a spatio-temporal decomposed data bank and a multi-head spatial transformer model (CompFormer). The former component explicitly separates all training data along the temporal dimension according to periodicity characteristics, while the latter component establishes a connection between recent observations and historical series in the data bank through a spatial attention matrix. This enables the CompFormer to transfer robust features to overcome anomalous events while using fewer computational resources. Our modules can be flexibly integrated with existing forecasting methods through end-to-end training, and we demonstrate their effectiveness on the METR-LA and PEMS-BAY benchmarks. Extensive experimental results show that our method is particularly important in extreme events, and can achieve significant improvements over six strong baselines, with an overall improvement of up to 28.2%. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Music Generation based on Generative Adversarial Networks with  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09075  
**Abstract:** Autoregressive models based on Transformers have become the prevailing approach for generating music compositions that exhibit comprehensive musical structure. These models are typically trained by minimizing the negative log-likelihood (NLL) of the observed sequence in an autoregressive manner. However, when generating long sequences, the quality of samples from these models tends to significantly deteriorate due to exposure bias. To address this issue, we leverage classifiers trained to differentiate between real and sampled sequences to identify these failures. This observation motivates our exploration of adversarial losses as a complement to the NLL objective. We employ a pre-trained Span-BERT model as the discriminator in the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) framework, which enhances training stability in our experiments. To optimize discrete sequences within the GAN framework, we utilize the Gumbel-Softmax trick to obtain a differentiable approximation of the sampling process. Additionally, we partition the sequences into smaller chunks to ensure that memory constraints are met. Through human evaluations and the introduction of a novel discriminative metric, we demonstrate that our approach outperforms a baseline model trained solely on likelihood maximization. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** FrameRS: A Video Frame Compression Model Composed by Self supervised  Video Frame Reconstructor and Key Frame Selector  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09083  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present frame reconstruction model: FrameRS. It consists self-supervised video frame reconstructor and key frame selector. The frame reconstructor, FrameMAE, is developed by adapting the principles of the Masked Autoencoder for Images (MAE) for video context. The key frame selector, Frame Selector, is built on CNN architecture. By taking the high-level semantic information from the encoder of FrameMAE as its input, it can predicted the key frames with low computation costs. Integrated with our bespoke Frame Selector, FrameMAE can effectively compress a video clip by retaining approximately 30% of its pivotal frames. Performance-wise, our model showcases computational efficiency and competitive accuracy, marking a notable improvement over traditional Key Frame Extract algorithms. The implementation is available on Github 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Enhancing GAN-Based Vocoders with Contrastive Learning Under  Data-limited Condition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09088  
**Abstract:** Vocoder models have recently achieved substantial progress in generating authentic audio comparable to human quality while significantly reducing memory requirement and inference time. However, these data-hungry generative models require large-scale audio data for learning good representations. In this paper, we apply contrastive learning methods in training the vocoder to improve the perceptual quality of the vocoder without modifying its architecture or adding more data. We design an auxiliary task with mel-spectrogram contrastive learning to enhance the utterance-level quality of the vocoder model under data-limited conditions. We also extend the task to include waveforms to improve the multi-modality comprehension of the model and address the discriminator overfitting problem. We optimize the additional task simultaneously with GAN training objectives. Our result shows that the tasks improve model performance substantially in data-limited settings. Our analysis based on the result indicates that the proposed design successfully alleviates discriminator overfitting and produces audio of higher fidelity. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Contrastive Decoding Improves Reasoning in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09117  
**Abstract:** We demonstrate that Contrastive Decoding -- a simple, computationally light, and training-free text generation method proposed by Li et al 2022 -- achieves large out-of-the-box improvements over greedy decoding on a variety of reasoning tasks. Originally shown to improve the perceived quality of long-form text generation, Contrastive Decoding searches for strings that maximize a weighted difference in likelihood between strong and weak models. We show that Contrastive Decoding leads LLaMA-65B to outperform LLaMA 2, GPT-3.5 and PaLM 2-L on the HellaSwag commonsense reasoning benchmark, and to outperform LLaMA 2, GPT-3.5 and PaLM-540B on the GSM8K math word reasoning benchmark, in addition to improvements on a collection of other tasks. Analysis suggests that Contrastive Decoding improves over existing methods by preventing some abstract reasoning errors, as well as by avoiding simpler modes such as copying sections of the input during chain-of-thought. Overall, Contrastive Decoding outperforms nucleus sampling for long-form generation and greedy decoding for reasoning tasks, making it a powerful general purpose method for generating text from language models. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Public Perceptions of Gender Bias in Large Language Models: Cases of  ChatGPT and Ernie  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09120  
**Abstract:** Large language models are quickly gaining momentum, yet are found to demonstrate gender bias in their responses. In this paper, we conducted a content analysis of social media discussions to gauge public perceptions of gender bias in LLMs which are trained in different cultural contexts, i.e., ChatGPT, a US-based LLM, or Ernie, a China-based LLM. People shared both observations of gender bias in their personal use and scientific findings about gender bias in LLMs. A difference between the two LLMs was seen -- ChatGPT was more often found to carry implicit gender bias, e.g., associating men and women with different profession titles, while explicit gender bias was found in Ernie's responses, e.g., overly promoting women's pursuit of marriage over career. Based on the findings, we reflect on the impact of culture on gender bias and propose governance recommendations to regulate gender bias in LLMs. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** How much can ChatGPT really help Computational Biologists in  Programming?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09126  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT, a recently developed product by openAI, is successfully leaving its mark as a multi-purpose natural language based chatbot. In this paper, we are more interested in analyzing its potential in the field of computational biology. A major share of work done by computational biologists these days involve coding up Bioinformatics algorithms, analyzing data, creating pipelining scripts and even machine learning modeling & feature extraction. This paper focuses on the potential influence (both positive and negative) of ChatGPT in the mentioned aspects with illustrative examples from different perspectives. Compared to other fields of Computer Science, Computational Biology has - (1) less coding resources, (2) more sensitivity and bias issues (deals with medical data) and (3) more necessity of coding assistance (people from diverse background come to this field). Keeping such issues in mind, we cover use cases such as code writing, reviewing, debugging, converting, refactoring and pipelining using ChatGPT from the perspective of computational biologists in this paper. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Trajectory Prediction for Robot Navigation using Flow-Guided Markov  Neural Operator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09137  
**Abstract:** Predicting pedestrian movements remains a complex and persistent challenge in robot navigation research. We must evaluate several factors to achieve accurate predictions, such as pedestrian interactions, the environment, crowd density, and social and cultural norms. Accurate prediction of pedestrian paths is vital for ensuring safe human-robot interaction, especially in robot navigation. Furthermore, this research has potential applications in autonomous vehicles, pedestrian tracking, and human-robot collaboration. Therefore, in this paper, we introduce \textbf{FlowMNO}, an Optical Flow-Integrated Markov Neural Operator designed to capture pedestrian behavior across diverse scenarios. Our paper models trajectory prediction as a Markovian process, where future pedestrian coordinates depend solely on the current state. This problem formulation eliminates the need to store previous states. We conducted experiments using standard benchmark datasets like ETH, HOTEL, ZARA1, ZARA2, UCY, and RGB-D pedestrian datasets. Our study demonstrates that FlowMNO outperforms some of the state-of-the-art deep learning methods like LSTM, GAN, and CNN-based approaches, by approximately 86.46\% when predicting pedestrian trajectories. Thus, we show that FlowMNO can seamlessly integrate into robot navigation systems, enhancing their ability to navigate crowded areas smoothly. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** From Cooking Recipes to Robot Task Trees -- Improving Planning  Correctness and Task Efficiency by Leveraging LLMs with a Knowledge Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09181  
**Abstract:** Task planning for robotic cooking involves generating a sequence of actions for a robot to prepare a meal successfully. This paper introduces a novel task tree generation pipeline producing correct planning and efficient execution for cooking tasks. Our method first uses a large language model (LLM) to retrieve recipe instructions and then utilizes a fine-tuned GPT-3 to convert them into a task tree, capturing sequential and parallel dependencies among subtasks. The pipeline then mitigates the uncertainty and unreliable features of LLM outputs using task tree retrieval. We combine multiple LLM task tree outputs into a graph and perform a task tree retrieval to avoid questionable nodes and high-cost nodes to improve planning correctness and improve execution efficiency. Our evaluation results show its superior performance compared to previous works in task planning accuracy and efficiency. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** CLIPUNetr: Assisting Human-robot Interface for Uncalibrated Visual  Servoing Control with CLIP-driven Referring Expression Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09183  
**Abstract:** The classical human-robot interface in uncalibrated image-based visual servoing (UIBVS) relies on either human annotations or semantic segmentation with categorical labels. Both methods fail to match natural human communication and convey rich semantics in manipulation tasks as effectively as natural language expressions. In this paper, we tackle this problem by using referring expression segmentation, which is a prompt-based approach, to provide more in-depth information for robot perception. To generate high-quality segmentation predictions from referring expressions, we propose CLIPUNetr - a new CLIP-driven referring expression segmentation network. CLIPUNetr leverages CLIP's strong vision-language representations to segment regions from referring expressions, while utilizing its ``U-shaped'' encoder-decoder architecture to generate predictions with sharper boundaries and finer structures. Furthermore, we propose a new pipeline to integrate CLIPUNetr into UIBVS and apply it to control robots in real-world environments. In experiments, our method improves boundary and structure measurements by an average of 120% and can successfully assist real-world UIBVS control in an unstructured manipulation environment. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Using Artificial Neural Networks to Determine Ontologies Most Relevant  to Scientific Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09203  
**Abstract:** This paper provides an insight into the possibility of how to find ontologies most relevant to scientific texts using artificial neural networks. The basic idea of the presented approach is to select a representative paragraph from a source text file, embed it to a vector space by a pre-trained fine-tuned transformer, and classify the embedded vector according to its relevance to a target ontology. We have considered different classifiers to categorize the output from the transformer, in particular random forest, support vector machine, multilayer perceptron, k-nearest neighbors, and Gaussian process classifiers. Their suitability has been evaluated in a use case with ontologies and scientific texts concerning catalysis research. From results we can say the worst results have random forest. The best results in this task brought support vector machine classifier. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Image-level supervision and self-training for transformer-based  cross-modality tumor segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09246  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks are commonly used for automated medical image segmentation, but models will frequently struggle to generalize well across different imaging modalities. This issue is particularly problematic due to the limited availability of annotated data, making it difficult to deploy these models on a larger scale. To overcome these challenges, we propose a new semi-supervised training strategy called MoDATTS. Our approach is designed for accurate cross-modality 3D tumor segmentation on unpaired bi-modal datasets. An image-to-image translation strategy between imaging modalities is used to produce annotated pseudo-target volumes and improve generalization to the unannotated target modality. We also use powerful vision transformer architectures and introduce an iterative self-training procedure to further close the domain gap between modalities. MoDATTS additionally allows the possibility to extend the training to unannotated target data by exploiting image-level labels with an unsupervised objective that encourages the model to perform 3D diseased-to-healthy translation by disentangling tumors from the background. The proposed model achieves superior performance compared to other methods from participating teams in the CrossMoDA 2022 challenge, as evidenced by its reported top Dice score of 0.87+/-0.04 for the VS segmentation. MoDATTS also yields consistent improvements in Dice scores over baselines on a cross-modality brain tumor segmentation task composed of four different contrasts from the BraTS 2020 challenge dataset, where 95% of a target supervised model performance is reached. We report that 99% and 100% of this maximum performance can be attained if 20% and 50% of the target data is additionally annotated, which further demonstrates that MoDATTS can be leveraged to reduce the annotation burden. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** LiteTrack: Layer Pruning with Asynchronous Feature Extraction for  Lightweight and Efficient Visual Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09249  
**Abstract:** The recent advancements in transformer-based visual trackers have led to significant progress, attributed to their strong modeling capabilities. However, as performance improves, running latency correspondingly increases, presenting a challenge for real-time robotics applications, especially on edge devices with computational constraints. In response to this, we introduce LiteTrack, an efficient transformer-based tracking model optimized for high-speed operations across various devices. It achieves a more favorable trade-off between accuracy and efficiency than the other lightweight trackers. The main innovations of LiteTrack encompass: 1) asynchronous feature extraction and interaction between the template and search region for better feature fushion and cutting redundant computation, and 2) pruning encoder layers from a heavy tracker to refine the balnace between performance and speed. As an example, our fastest variant, LiteTrack-B4, achieves 65.2% AO on the GOT-10k benchmark, surpassing all preceding efficient trackers, while running over 100 fps with ONNX on the Jetson Orin NX edge device. Moreover, our LiteTrack-B9 reaches competitive 72.2% AO on GOT-10k and 82.4% AUC on TrackingNet, and operates at 171 fps on an NVIDIA 2080Ti GPU. The code and demo materials will be available at https://github.com/TsingWei/LiteTrack. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** LiDAR Data Synthesis with Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09256  
**Abstract:** Generative modeling of 3D LiDAR data is an emerging task with promising applications for autonomous mobile robots, such as scalable simulation, scene manipulation, and sparse-to-dense completion of LiDAR point clouds. Existing approaches have shown the feasibility of image-based LiDAR data generation using deep generative models while still struggling with the fidelity of generated data and training instability. In this work, we present R2DM, a novel generative model for LiDAR data that can generate diverse and high-fidelity 3D scene point clouds based on the image representation of range and reflectance intensity. Our method is based on the denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs), which have demonstrated impressive results among generative model frameworks and have been significantly progressing in recent years. To effectively train DDPMs on the LiDAR domain, we first conduct an in-depth analysis regarding data representation, training objective, and spatial inductive bias. Based on our designed model R2DM, we also introduce a flexible LiDAR completion pipeline using the powerful properties of DDPMs. We demonstrate that our method outperforms the baselines on the generation task of KITTI-360 and KITTI-Raw datasets and the upsampling task of KITTI-360 datasets. Our code and pre-trained weights will be available at https://github.com/kazuto1011/r2dm. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Leveraging Large Language Models for Sequential Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09261  
**Abstract:** Sequential recommendation problems have received increasing attention in research during the past few years, leading to the inception of a large variety of algorithmic approaches. In this work, we explore how large language models (LLMs), which are nowadays introducing disruptive effects in many AI-based applications, can be used to build or improve sequential recommendation approaches. Specifically, we devise and evaluate three approaches to leverage the power of LLMs in different ways. Our results from experiments on two datasets show that initializing the state-of-the-art sequential recommendation model BERT4Rec with embeddings obtained from an LLM improves NDCG by 15-20% compared to the vanilla BERT4Rec model. Furthermore, we find that a simple approach that leverages LLM embeddings for producing recommendations, can provide competitive performance by highlighting semantically related items. We publicly share the code and data of our experiments to ensure reproducibility. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Code quality assessment using transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09264  
**Abstract:** Automatically evaluate the correctness of programming assignments is rather straightforward using unit and integration tests. However, programming tasks can be solved in multiple ways, many of which, although correct, are inelegant. For instance, excessive branching, poor naming or repetitiveness make the code hard to understand and maintain. These subjective qualities of code are hard to automatically assess using current techniques. In this work we investigate the use of CodeBERT to automatically assign quality score to Java code. We experiment with different models and training paradigms. We explore the accuracy of the models on a novel dataset for code quality assessment. Finally, we assess the quality of the predictions using saliency maps. We find that code quality to some extent is predictable and that transformer based models using task adapted pre-training can solve the task more efficiently than other techniques. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Deep Neighbor Layer Aggregation for Lightweight Self-Supervised  Monocular Depth Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09272  
**Abstract:** With the frequent use of self-supervised monocular depth estimation in robotics and autonomous driving, the model's efficiency is becoming increasingly important. Most current approaches apply much larger and more complex networks to improve the precision of depth estimation. Some researchers incorporated Transformer into self-supervised monocular depth estimation to achieve better performance. However, this method leads to high parameters and high computation. We present a fully convolutional depth estimation network using contextual feature fusion. Compared to UNet++ and HRNet, we use high-resolution and low-resolution features to reserve information on small targets and fast-moving objects instead of long-range fusion. We further promote depth estimation results employing lightweight channel attention based on convolution in the decoder stage. Our method reduces the parameters without sacrificing accuracy. Experiments on the KITTI benchmark show that our method can get better results than many large models, such as Monodepth2, with only 30 parameters. The source code is available at https://github.com/boyagesmile/DNA-Depth. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** MVP: Meta Visual Prompt Tuning for Few-Shot Remote Sensing Image Scene  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09276  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformer (ViT) models have recently emerged as powerful and versatile models for various visual tasks. Recently, a work called PMF has achieved promising results in few-shot image classification by utilizing pre-trained vision transformer models. However, PMF employs full fine-tuning for learning the downstream tasks, leading to significant overfitting and storage issues, especially in the remote sensing domain. In order to tackle these issues, we turn to the recently proposed parameter-efficient tuning methods, such as VPT, which updates only the newly added prompt parameters while keeping the pre-trained backbone frozen. Inspired by VPT, we propose the Meta Visual Prompt Tuning (MVP) method. Specifically, we integrate the VPT method into the meta-learning framework and tailor it to the remote sensing domain, resulting in an efficient framework for Few-Shot Remote Sensing Scene Classification (FS-RSSC). Furthermore, we introduce a novel data augmentation strategy based on patch embedding recombination to enhance the representation and diversity of scenes for classification purposes. Experiment results on the FS-RSSC benchmark demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed MVP over existing methods in various settings, such as various-way-various-shot, various-way-one-shot, and cross-domain adaptation. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** LivelySpeaker: Towards Semantic-Aware Co-Speech Gesture Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09294  
**Abstract:** Gestures are non-verbal but important behaviors accompanying people's speech. While previous methods are able to generate speech rhythm-synchronized gestures, the semantic context of the speech is generally lacking in the gesticulations. Although semantic gestures do not occur very regularly in human speech, they are indeed the key for the audience to understand the speech context in a more immersive environment. Hence, we introduce LivelySpeaker, a framework that realizes semantics-aware co-speech gesture generation and offers several control handles. In particular, our method decouples the task into two stages: script-based gesture generation and audio-guided rhythm refinement. Specifically, the script-based gesture generation leverages the pre-trained CLIP text embeddings as the guidance for generating gestures that are highly semantically aligned with the script. Then, we devise a simple but effective diffusion-based gesture generation backbone simply using pure MLPs, that is conditioned on only audio signals and learns to gesticulate with realistic motions. We utilize such powerful prior to rhyme the script-guided gestures with the audio signals, notably in a zero-shot setting. Our novel two-stage generation framework also enables several applications, such as changing the gesticulation style, editing the co-speech gestures via textual prompting, and controlling the semantic awareness and rhythm alignment with guided diffusion. Extensive experiments demonstrate the advantages of the proposed framework over competing methods. In addition, our core diffusion-based generative model also achieves state-of-the-art performance on two benchmarks. The code and model will be released to facilitate future research. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** NeRF-VINS: A Real-time Neural Radiance Field Map-based Visual-Inertial  Navigation System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09295  
**Abstract:** Achieving accurate, efficient, and consistent localization within an a priori environment map remains a fundamental challenge in robotics and computer vision. Conventional map-based keyframe localization often suffers from sub-optimal viewpoints due to limited field of view (FOV), thus degrading its performance. To address this issue, in this paper, we design a real-time tightly-coupled Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF)-aided visual-inertial navigation system (VINS), termed NeRF-VINS. By effectively leveraging NeRF's potential to synthesize novel views, essential for addressing limited viewpoints, the proposed NeRF-VINS optimally fuses IMU and monocular image measurements along with synthetically rendered images within an efficient filter-based framework. This tightly coupled integration enables 3D motion tracking with bounded error. We extensively compare the proposed NeRF-VINS against the state-of-the-art methods that use prior map information, which is shown to achieve superior performance. We also demonstrate the proposed method is able to perform real-time estimation at 15 Hz, on a resource-constrained Jetson AGX Orin embedded platform with impressive accuracy. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** RenderIH: A Large-scale Synthetic Dataset for 3D Interacting Hand Pose  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09301  
**Abstract:** The current interacting hand (IH) datasets are relatively simplistic in terms of background and texture, with hand joints being annotated by a machine annotator, which may result in inaccuracies, and the diversity of pose distribution is limited. However, the variability of background, pose distribution, and texture can greatly influence the generalization ability. Therefore, we present a large-scale synthetic dataset RenderIH for interacting hands with accurate and diverse pose annotations. The dataset contains 1M photo-realistic images with varied backgrounds, perspectives, and hand textures. To generate natural and diverse interacting poses, we propose a new pose optimization algorithm. Additionally, for better pose estimation accuracy, we introduce a transformer-based pose estimation network, TransHand, to leverage the correlation between interacting hands and verify the effectiveness of RenderIH in improving results. Our dataset is model-agnostic and can improve more accuracy of any hand pose estimation method in comparison to other real or synthetic datasets. Experiments have shown that pretraining on our synthetic data can significantly decrease the error from 6.76mm to 5.79mm, and our Transhand surpasses contemporary methods. Our dataset and code are available at https://github.com/adwardlee/RenderIH. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Effective Image Tampering Localization via Enhanced Transformer and  Co-attention Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09306  
**Abstract:** Powerful manipulation techniques have made digital image forgeries be easily created and widespread without leaving visual anomalies. The blind localization of tampered regions becomes quite significant for image forensics. In this paper, we propose an effective image tampering localization network (EITLNet) based on a two-branch enhanced transformer encoder with attention-based feature fusion. Specifically, a feature enhancement module is designed to enhance the feature representation ability of the transformer encoder. The features extracted from RGB and noise streams are fused effectively by the coordinate attention-based fusion module at multiple scales. Extensive experimental results verify that the proposed scheme achieves the state-of-the-art generalization ability and robustness in various benchmark datasets. Code will be public at https://github.com/multimediaFor/EITLNet. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** UGC: Unified GAN Compression for Efficient Image-to-Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09310  
**Abstract:** Recent years have witnessed the prevailing progress of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) in image-to-image translation. However, the success of these GAN models hinges on ponderous computational costs and labor-expensive training data. Current efficient GAN learning techniques often fall into two orthogonal aspects: i) model slimming via reduced calculation costs; ii)data/label-efficient learning with fewer training data/labels. To combine the best of both worlds, we propose a new learning paradigm, Unified GAN Compression (UGC), with a unified optimization objective to seamlessly prompt the synergy of model-efficient and label-efficient learning. UGC sets up semi-supervised-driven network architecture search and adaptive online semi-supervised distillation stages sequentially, which formulates a heterogeneous mutual learning scheme to obtain an architecture-flexible, label-efficient, and performance-excellent model. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Enhancing Knee Osteoarthritis severity level classification using  diffusion augmented images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09328  
**Abstract:** This research paper explores the classification of knee osteoarthritis (OA) severity levels using advanced computer vision models and augmentation techniques. The study investigates the effectiveness of data preprocessing, including Contrast-Limited Adaptive Histogram Equalization (CLAHE), and data augmentation using diffusion models. Three experiments were conducted: training models on the original dataset, training models on the preprocessed dataset, and training models on the augmented dataset. The results show that data preprocessing and augmentation significantly improve the accuracy of the models. The EfficientNetB3 model achieved the highest accuracy of 84\% on the augmented dataset. Additionally, attention visualization techniques, such as Grad-CAM, are utilized to provide detailed attention maps, enhancing the understanding and trustworthiness of the models. These findings highlight the potential of combining advanced models with augmented data and attention visualization for accurate knee OA severity classification. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** A Few-Shot Approach to Dysarthric Speech Intelligibility Level  Classification Using Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09329  
**Abstract:** Dysarthria is a speech disorder that hinders communication due to difficulties in articulating words. Detection of dysarthria is important for several reasons as it can be used to develop a treatment plan and help improve a person's quality of life and ability to communicate effectively. Much of the literature focused on improving ASR systems for dysarthric speech. The objective of the current work is to develop models that can accurately classify the presence of dysarthria and also give information about the intelligibility level using limited data by employing a few-shot approach using a transformer model. This work also aims to tackle the data leakage that is present in previous studies. Our whisper-large-v2 transformer model trained on a subset of the UASpeech dataset containing medium intelligibility level patients achieved an accuracy of 85%, precision of 0.92, recall of 0.8 F1-score of 0.85, and specificity of 0.91. Experimental results also demonstrate that the model trained using the 'words' dataset performed better compared to the model trained on the 'letters' and 'digits' dataset. Moreover, the multiclass model achieved an accuracy of 67%. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Performance of the Pre-Trained Large Language Model GPT-4 on Automated  Short Answer Grading  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09338  
**Abstract:** Automated Short Answer Grading (ASAG) has been an active area of machine-learning research for over a decade. It promises to let educators grade and give feedback on free-form responses in large-enrollment courses in spite of limited availability of human graders. Over the years, carefully trained models have achieved increasingly higher levels of performance. More recently, pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) emerged as a commodity, and an intriguing question is how a general-purpose tool without additional training compares to specialized models. We studied the performance of GPT-4 on the standard benchmark 2-way and 3-way datasets SciEntsBank and Beetle, where in addition to the standard task of grading the alignment of the student answer with a reference answer, we also investigated withholding the reference answer. We found that overall, the performance of the pre-trained general-purpose GPT-4 LLM is comparable to hand-engineered models, but worse than pre-trained LLMs that had specialized training. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Speech-Gesture GAN: Gesture Generation for Robots and Embodied Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09346  
**Abstract:** Embodied agents, in the form of virtual agents or social robots, are rapidly becoming more widespread. In human-human interactions, humans use nonverbal behaviours to convey their attitudes, feelings, and intentions. Therefore, this capability is also required for embodied agents in order to enhance the quality and effectiveness of their interactions with humans. In this paper, we propose a novel framework that can generate sequences of joint angles from the speech text and speech audio utterances. Based on a conditional Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), our proposed neural network model learns the relationships between the co-speech gestures and both semantic and acoustic features from the speech input. In order to train our neural network model, we employ a public dataset containing co-speech gestures with corresponding speech audio utterances, which were captured from a single male native English speaker. The results from both objective and subjective evaluations demonstrate the efficacy of our gesture-generation framework for Robots and Embodied Agents. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Embrace Divergence for Richer Insights: A Multi-document Summarization  Benchmark and a Case Study on Summarizing Diverse Information from News  Articles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09369  
**Abstract:** Previous research in multi-document news summarization has typically concentrated on collating information that all sources agree upon. However, to our knowledge, the summarization of diverse information dispersed across multiple articles about an event has not been previously investigated. The latter imposes a different set of challenges for a summarization model. In this paper, we propose a new task of summarizing diverse information encountered in multiple news articles encompassing the same event. To facilitate this task, we outlined a data collection schema for identifying diverse information and curated a dataset named DiverseSumm. The dataset includes 245 news stories, with each story comprising 10 news articles and paired with a human-validated reference. Moreover, we conducted a comprehensive analysis to pinpoint the position and verbosity biases when utilizing Large Language Model (LLM)-based metrics for evaluating the coverage and faithfulness of the summaries, as well as their correlation with human assessments. We applied our findings to study how LLMs summarize multiple news articles by analyzing which type of diverse information LLMs are capable of identifying. Our analyses suggest that despite the extraordinary capabilities of LLMs in single-document summarization, the proposed task remains a complex challenge for them mainly due to their limited coverage, with GPT-4 only able to cover less than 40% of the diverse information on average. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Numerical analysis of a spherical harmonic discontinuous Galerkin method  for scaled radiative transfer equations with isotropic scattering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09394  
**Abstract:** In highly diffusion regimes when the mean free path $\varepsilon$ tends to zero, the radiative transfer equation has an asymptotic behavior which is governed by a diffusion equation and the corresponding boundary condition. Generally, a numerical scheme for solving this problem has the truncation error containing an $\varepsilon^{-1}$ contribution, that leads to a nonuniform convergence for small $\varepsilon$. Such phenomenons require high resolutions of discretizations, which degrades the performance of the numerical scheme in the diffusion limit. In this paper, we first provide a--priori estimates for the scaled spherical harmonic ($P_N$) radiative transfer equation. Then we present an error analysis for the spherical harmonic discontinuous Galerkin (DG) method of the scaled radiative transfer equation showing that, under some mild assumptions, its solutions converge uniformly in $\varepsilon$ to the solution of the scaled radiative transfer equation. We further present an optimal convergence result for the DG method with the upwind flux on Cartesian grids. Error estimates of $\left(1+\mathcal{O}(\varepsilon)\right)h^{k+1}$ (where $h$ is the maximum element length) are obtained when tensor product polynomials of degree at most $k$ are used. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Do Large GPT Models Discover Moral Dimensions in Language  Representations? A Topological Study Of Sentence Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09397  
**Abstract:** As Large Language Models are deployed within Artificial Intelligence systems, that are increasingly integrated with human society, it becomes more important than ever to study their internal structures. Higher level abilities of LLMs such as GPT-3.5 emerge in large part due to informative language representations they induce from raw text data during pre-training on trillions of words. These embeddings exist in vector spaces of several thousand dimensions, and their processing involves mapping between multiple vector spaces, with total number of parameters on the order of trillions. Furthermore, these language representations are induced by gradient optimization, resulting in a black box system that is hard to interpret. In this paper, we take a look at the topological structure of neuronal activity in the "brain" of Chat-GPT's foundation language model, and analyze it with respect to a metric representing the notion of fairness. We develop a novel approach to visualize GPT's moral dimensions. We first compute a fairness metric, inspired by social psychology literature, to identify factors that typically influence fairness assessments in humans, such as legitimacy, need, and responsibility. Subsequently, we summarize the manifold's shape using a lower-dimensional simplicial complex, whose topology is derived from this metric. We color it with a heat map associated with this fairness metric, producing human-readable visualizations of the high-dimensional sentence manifold. Our results show that sentence embeddings based on GPT-3.5 can be decomposed into two submanifolds corresponding to fair and unfair moral judgments. This indicates that GPT-based language models develop a moral dimension within their representation spaces and induce an understanding of fairness during their training process. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** ChatGPT Hallucinates when Attributing Answers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09401  
**Abstract:** Can ChatGPT provide evidence to support its answers? Does the evidence it suggests actually exist and does it really support its answer? We investigate these questions using a collection of domain-specific knowledge-based questions, specifically prompting ChatGPT to provide both an answer and supporting evidence in the form of references to external sources. We also investigate how different prompts impact answers and evidence. We find that ChatGPT provides correct or partially correct answers in about half of the cases (50.6% of the times), but its suggested references only exist 14% of the times. We further provide insights on the generated references that reveal common traits among the references that ChatGPT generates, and show how even if a reference provided by the model does exist, this reference often does not support the claims ChatGPT attributes to it. Our findings are important because (1) they are the first systematic analysis of the references created by ChatGPT in its answers; (2) they suggest that the model may leverage good quality information in producing correct answers, but is unable to attribute real evidence to support its answers. Prompts, raw result files and manual analysis are made publicly available. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Does Video Summarization Require Videos? Quantifying the Effectiveness  of Language in Video Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09405  
**Abstract:** Video summarization remains a huge challenge in computer vision due to the size of the input videos to be summarized. We propose an efficient, language-only video summarizer that achieves competitive accuracy with high data efficiency. Using only textual captions obtained via a zero-shot approach, we train a language transformer model and forego image representations. This method allows us to perform filtration amongst the representative text vectors and condense the sequence. With our approach, we gain explainability with natural language that comes easily for human interpretation and textual summaries of the videos. An ablation study that focuses on modality and data compression shows that leveraging text modality only effectively reduces input data processing while retaining comparable results. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** FactoFormer: Factorized Hyperspectral Transformers with Self-Supervised  Pre-Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09431  
**Abstract:** Hyperspectral images (HSIs) contain rich spectral and spatial information. Motivated by the success of transformers in the field of natural language processing and computer vision where they have shown the ability to learn long range dependencies within input data, recent research has focused on using transformers for HSIs. However, current state-of-the-art hyperspectral transformers only tokenize the input HSI sample along the spectral dimension, resulting in the under-utilization of spatial information. Moreover, transformers are known to be data-hungry and their performance relies heavily on large-scale pre-training, which is challenging due to limited annotated hyperspectral data. Therefore, the full potential of HSI transformers has not been fully realized. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel factorized spectral-spatial transformer that incorporates factorized self-supervised pre-training procedures, leading to significant improvements in performance. The factorization of the inputs allows the spectral and spatial transformers to better capture the interactions within the hyperspectral data cubes. Inspired by masked image modeling pre-training, we also devise efficient masking strategies for pre-training each of the spectral and spatial transformers. We conduct experiments on three publicly available datasets for HSI classification task and demonstrate that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance in all three datasets. The code for our model will be made available at https://github.com/csiro-robotics/factoformer. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Progressive Text-to-Image Diffusion with Soft Latent Direction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09466  
**Abstract:** In spite of the rapidly evolving landscape of text-to-image generation, the synthesis and manipulation of multiple entities while adhering to specific relational constraints pose enduring challenges. This paper introduces an innovative progressive synthesis and editing operation that systematically incorporates entities into the target image, ensuring their adherence to spatial and relational constraints at each sequential step. Our key insight stems from the observation that while a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model adeptly handles one or two entities, it often falters when dealing with a greater number. To address this limitation, we propose harnessing the capabilities of a Large Language Model (LLM) to decompose intricate and protracted text descriptions into coherent directives adhering to stringent formats. To facilitate the execution of directives involving distinct semantic operations-namely insertion, editing, and erasing-we formulate the Stimulus, Response, and Fusion (SRF) framework. Within this framework, latent regions are gently stimulated in alignment with each operation, followed by the fusion of the responsive latent components to achieve cohesive entity manipulation. Our proposed framework yields notable advancements in object synthesis, particularly when confronted with intricate and lengthy textual inputs. Consequently, it establishes a new benchmark for text-to-image generation tasks, further elevating the field's performance standards. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Target-aware Bi-Transformer for Few-shot Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09492  
**Abstract:** Traditional semantic segmentation tasks require a large number of labels and are difficult to identify unlearned categories. Few-shot semantic segmentation (FSS) aims to use limited labeled support images to identify the segmentation of new classes of objects, which is very practical in the real world. Previous researches were primarily based on prototypes or correlations. Due to colors, textures, and styles are similar in the same image, we argue that the query image can be regarded as its own support image. In this paper, we proposed the Target-aware Bi-Transformer Network (TBTNet) to equivalent treat of support images and query image. A vigorous Target-aware Transformer Layer (TTL) also be designed to distill correlations and force the model to focus on foreground information. It treats the hypercorrelation as a feature, resulting a significant reduction in the number of feature channels. Benefit from this characteristic, our model is the lightest up to now with only 0.4M learnable parameters. Futhermore, TBTNet converges in only 10% to 25% of the training epochs compared to traditional methods. The excellent performance on standard FSS benchmarks of PASCAL-5i and COCO-20i proves the efficiency of our method. Extensive ablation studies were also carried out to evaluate the effectiveness of Bi-Transformer architecture and TTL. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** CLIP-based Synergistic Knowledge Transfer for Text-based Person  Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09496  
**Abstract:** Text-based Person Retrieval aims to retrieve the target person images given a textual query. The primary challenge lies in bridging the substantial gap between vision and language modalities, especially when dealing with limited large-scale datasets. In this paper, we introduce a CLIP-based Synergistic Knowledge Transfer(CSKT) approach for TBPR. Specifically, to explore the CLIP's knowledge on input side, we first propose a Bidirectional Prompts Transferring (BPT) module constructed by text-to-image and image-to-text bidirectional prompts and coupling projections. Secondly, Dual Adapters Transferring (DAT) is designed to transfer knowledge on output side of Multi-Head Self-Attention (MHSA) in vision and language. This synergistic two-way collaborative mechanism promotes the early-stage feature fusion and efficiently exploits the existing knowledge of CLIP. CSKT outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches across three benchmark datasets when the training parameters merely account for 7.4% of the entire model, demonstrating its remarkable efficiency, effectiveness and generalization. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** PromptST: Prompt-Enhanced Spatio-Temporal Multi-Attribute Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09500  
**Abstract:** In the era of information explosion, spatio-temporal data mining serves as a critical part of urban management. Considering the various fields demanding attention, e.g., traffic state, human activity, and social event, predicting multiple spatio-temporal attributes simultaneously can alleviate regulatory pressure and foster smart city construction. However, current research can not handle the spatio-temporal multi-attribute prediction well due to the complex relationships between diverse attributes. The key challenge lies in how to address the common spatio-temporal patterns while tackling their distinctions. In this paper, we propose an effective solution for spatio-temporal multi-attribute prediction, PromptST. We devise a spatio-temporal transformer and a parameter-sharing training scheme to address the common knowledge among different spatio-temporal attributes. Then, we elaborate a spatio-temporal prompt tuning strategy to fit the specific attributes in a lightweight manner. Through the pretrain and prompt tuning phases, our PromptST is able to enhance the specific spatio-temoral characteristic capture by prompting the backbone model to fit the specific target attribute while maintaining the learned common knowledge. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets verify that our PromptST attains state-of-the-art performance. Furthermore, we also prove PromptST owns good transferability on unseen spatio-temporal attributes, which brings promising application potential in urban computing. The implementation code is available to ease reproducibility. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Discovering Sounding Objects by Audio Queries for Audio Visual  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09501  
**Abstract:** Audio visual segmentation (AVS) aims to segment the sounding objects for each frame of a given video. To distinguish the sounding objects from silent ones, both audio-visual semantic correspondence and temporal interaction are required. The previous method applies multi-frame cross-modal attention to conduct pixel-level interactions between audio features and visual features of multiple frames simultaneously, which is both redundant and implicit. In this paper, we propose an Audio-Queried Transformer architecture, AQFormer, where we define a set of object queries conditioned on audio information and associate each of them to particular sounding objects. Explicit object-level semantic correspondence between audio and visual modalities is established by gathering object information from visual features with predefined audio queries. Besides, an Audio-Bridged Temporal Interaction module is proposed to exchange sounding object-relevant information among multiple frames with the bridge of audio features. Extensive experiments are conducted on two AVS benchmarks to show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performances, especially 7.1% M_J and 7.6% M_F gains on the MS3 setting. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** RenderOcc: Vision-Centric 3D Occupancy Prediction with 2D Rendering  Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09502  
**Abstract:** 3D occupancy prediction holds significant promise in the fields of robot perception and autonomous driving, which quantifies 3D scenes into grid cells with semantic labels. Recent works mainly utilize complete occupancy labels in 3D voxel space for supervision. However, the expensive annotation process and sometimes ambiguous labels have severely constrained the usability and scalability of 3D occupancy models. To address this, we present RenderOcc, a novel paradigm for training 3D occupancy models only using 2D labels. Specifically, we extract a NeRF-style 3D volume representation from multi-view images, and employ volume rendering techniques to establish 2D renderings, thus enabling direct 3D supervision from 2D semantics and depth labels. Additionally, we introduce an Auxiliary Ray method to tackle the issue of sparse viewpoints in autonomous driving scenarios, which leverages sequential frames to construct comprehensive 2D rendering for each object. To our best knowledge, RenderOcc is the first attempt to train multi-view 3D occupancy models only using 2D labels, reducing the dependence on costly 3D occupancy annotations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that RenderOcc achieves comparable performance to models fully supervised with 3D labels, underscoring the significance of this approach in real-world applications. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Selective Volume Mixup for Video Action Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09534  
**Abstract:** The recent advances in Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Vision Transformers have convincingly demonstrated high learning capability for video action recognition on large datasets. Nevertheless, deep models often suffer from the overfitting effect on small-scale datasets with a limited number of training videos. A common solution is to exploit the existing image augmentation strategies for each frame individually including Mixup, Cutmix, and RandAugment, which are not particularly optimized for video data. In this paper, we propose a novel video augmentation strategy named Selective Volume Mixup (SV-Mix) to improve the generalization ability of deep models with limited training videos. SV-Mix devises a learnable selective module to choose the most informative volumes from two videos and mixes the volumes up to achieve a new training video. Technically, we propose two new modules, i.e., a spatial selective module to select the local patches for each spatial position, and a temporal selective module to mix the entire frames for each timestamp and maintain the spatial pattern. At each time, we randomly choose one of the two modules to expand the diversity of training samples. The selective modules are jointly optimized with the video action recognition framework to find the optimal augmentation strategy. We empirically demonstrate the merits of the SV-Mix augmentation on a wide range of video action recognition benchmarks and consistently boot the performances of both CNN-based and transformer-based models. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** A performance characteristic curve for model evaluation: the application  in information diffusion prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09537  
**Abstract:** The information diffusion prediction on social networks aims to predict future recipients of a message, with practical applications in marketing and social media. While different prediction models all claim to perform well, general frameworks for performance evaluation remain limited. Here, we aim to identify a performance characteristic curve for a model, which captures its performance on tasks of different complexity. We propose a metric based on information entropy to quantify the randomness in diffusion data, then identify a scaling pattern between the randomness and the prediction accuracy of the model. Data points in the patterns by different sequence lengths, system sizes, and randomness all collapse into a single curve, capturing a model's inherent capability of making correct predictions against increased uncertainty. Given that this curve has such important properties that it can be used to evaluate the model, we define it as the performance characteristic curve of the model. The validity of the curve is tested by three prediction models in the same family, reaching conclusions in line with existing studies. Also, the curve is successfully applied to evaluate two distinct models from the literature. Our work reveals a pattern underlying the data randomness and prediction accuracy. The performance characteristic curve provides a new way to systematically evaluate models' performance, and sheds light on future studies on other frameworks for model evaluation. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Causal-Story: Local Causal Attention Utilizing Parameter-Efficient  Tuning For Visual Story Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09553  
**Abstract:** The excellent text-to-image synthesis capability of diffusion models has driven progress in synthesizing coherent visual stories. The current state-of-the-art method combines the features of historical captions, historical frames, and the current captions as conditions for generating the current frame. However, this method treats each historical frame and caption as the same contribution. It connects them in order with equal weights, ignoring that not all historical conditions are associated with the generation of the current frame. To address this issue, we propose Causal-Story. This model incorporates a local causal attention mechanism that considers the causal relationship between previous captions, frames, and current captions. By assigning weights based on this relationship, Causal-Story generates the current frame, thereby improving the global consistency of story generation. We evaluated our model on the PororoSV and FlintstonesSV datasets and obtained state-of-the-art FID scores, and the generated frames also demonstrate better storytelling in visuals. The source code of Causal-Story can be obtained from https://github.com/styufo/Causal-Story. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Heterogeneous Generative Knowledge Distillation with Masked Image  Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09571  
**Abstract:** Small CNN-based models usually require transferring knowledge from a large model before they are deployed in computationally resource-limited edge devices. Masked image modeling (MIM) methods achieve great success in various visual tasks but remain largely unexplored in knowledge distillation for heterogeneous deep models. The reason is mainly due to the significant discrepancy between the Transformer-based large model and the CNN-based small network. In this paper, we develop the first Heterogeneous Generative Knowledge Distillation (H-GKD) based on MIM, which can efficiently transfer knowledge from large Transformer models to small CNN-based models in a generative self-supervised fashion. Our method builds a bridge between Transformer-based models and CNNs by training a UNet-style student with sparse convolution, which can effectively mimic the visual representation inferred by a teacher over masked modeling. Our method is a simple yet effective learning paradigm to learn the visual representation and distribution of data from heterogeneous teacher models, which can be pre-trained using advanced generative methods. Extensive experiments show that it adapts well to various models and sizes, consistently achieving state-of-the-art performance in image classification, object detection, and semantic segmentation tasks. For example, in the Imagenet 1K dataset, H-GKD improves the accuracy of Resnet50 (sparse) from 76.98% to 80.01%. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Multi-Semantic Fusion Model for Generalized Zero-Shot Skeleton-Based  Action Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09592  
**Abstract:** Generalized zero-shot skeleton-based action recognition (GZSSAR) is a new challenging problem in computer vision community, which requires models to recognize actions without any training samples. Previous studies only utilize the action labels of verb phrases as the semantic prototypes for learning the mapping from skeleton-based actions to a shared semantic space. However, the limited semantic information of action labels restricts the generalization ability of skeleton features for recognizing unseen actions. In order to solve this dilemma, we propose a multi-semantic fusion (MSF) model for improving the performance of GZSSAR, where two kinds of class-level textual descriptions (i.e., action descriptions and motion descriptions), are collected as auxiliary semantic information to enhance the learning efficacy of generalizable skeleton features. Specially, a pre-trained language encoder takes the action descriptions, motion descriptions and original class labels as inputs to obtain rich semantic features for each action class, while a skeleton encoder is implemented to extract skeleton features. Then, a variational autoencoder (VAE) based generative module is performed to learn a cross-modal alignment between skeleton and semantic features. Finally, a classification module is built to recognize the action categories of input samples, where a seen-unseen classification gate is adopted to predict whether the sample comes from seen action classes or not in GZSSAR. The superior performance in comparisons with previous models validates the effectiveness of the proposed MSF model on GZSSAR. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Mutual Information-calibrated Conformal Feature Fusion for  Uncertainty-Aware Multimodal 3D Object Detection at the Edge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09593  
**Abstract:** In the expanding landscape of AI-enabled robotics, robust quantification of predictive uncertainties is of great importance. Three-dimensional (3D) object detection, a critical robotics operation, has seen significant advancements; however, the majority of current works focus only on accuracy and ignore uncertainty quantification. Addressing this gap, our novel study integrates the principles of conformal inference (CI) with information theoretic measures to perform lightweight, Monte Carlo-free uncertainty estimation within a multimodal framework. Through a multivariate Gaussian product of the latent variables in a Variational Autoencoder (VAE), features from RGB camera and LiDAR sensor data are fused to improve the prediction accuracy. Normalized mutual information (NMI) is leveraged as a modulator for calibrating uncertainty bounds derived from CI based on a weighted loss function. Our simulation results show an inverse correlation between inherent predictive uncertainty and NMI throughout the model's training. The framework demonstrates comparable or better performance in KITTI 3D object detection benchmarks to similar methods that are not uncertainty-aware, making it suitable for real-time edge robotics. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Proposition from the Perspective of Chinese Language: A Chinese  Proposition Classification Evaluation Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09602  
**Abstract:** Existing propositions often rely on logical constants for classification. Compared with Western languages that lean towards hypotaxis such as English, Chinese often relies on semantic or logical understanding rather than logical connectives in daily expressions, exhibiting the characteristics of parataxis. However, existing research has rarely paid attention to this issue. And accurately classifying these propositions is crucial for natural language understanding and reasoning. In this paper, we put forward the concepts of explicit and implicit propositions and propose a comprehensive multi-level proposition classification system based on linguistics and logic. Correspondingly, we create a large-scale Chinese proposition dataset PEACE from multiple domains, covering all categories related to propositions. To evaluate the Chinese proposition classification ability of existing models and explore their limitations, We conduct evaluations on PEACE using several different methods including the Rule-based method, SVM, BERT, RoBERTA, and ChatGPT. Results show the importance of properly modeling the semantic features of propositions. BERT has relatively good proposition classification capability, but lacks cross-domain transferability. ChatGPT performs poorly, but its classification ability can be improved by providing more proposition information. Many issues are still far from being resolved and require further study. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Gradpaint: Gradient-Guided Inpainting with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09614  
**Abstract:** Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) have recently achieved remarkable results in conditional and unconditional image generation. The pre-trained models can be adapted without further training to different downstream tasks, by guiding their iterative denoising process at inference time to satisfy additional constraints. For the specific task of image inpainting, the current guiding mechanism relies on copying-and-pasting the known regions from the input image at each denoising step. However, diffusion models are strongly conditioned by the initial random noise, and therefore struggle to harmonize predictions inside the inpainting mask with the real parts of the input image, often producing results with unnatural artifacts. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** HiT: Building Mapping with Hierarchical Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09643  
**Abstract:** Deep learning-based methods have been extensively explored for automatic building mapping from high-resolution remote sensing images over recent years. While most building mapping models produce vector polygons of buildings for geographic and mapping systems, dominant methods typically decompose polygonal building extraction in some sub-problems, including segmentation, polygonization, and regularization, leading to complex inference procedures, low accuracy, and poor generalization. In this paper, we propose a simple and novel building mapping method with Hierarchical Transformers, called HiT, improving polygonal building mapping quality from high-resolution remote sensing images. HiT builds on a two-stage detection architecture by adding a polygon head parallel to classification and bounding box regression heads. HiT simultaneously outputs building bounding boxes and vector polygons, which is fully end-to-end trainable. The polygon head formulates a building polygon as serialized vertices with the bidirectional characteristic, a simple and elegant polygon representation avoiding the start or end vertex hypothesis. Under this new perspective, the polygon head adopts a transformer encoder-decoder architecture to predict serialized vertices supervised by the designed bidirectional polygon loss. Furthermore, a hierarchical attention mechanism combined with convolution operation is introduced in the encoder of the polygon head, providing more geometric structures of building polygons at vertex and edge levels. Comprehensive experiments on two benchmarks (the CrowdAI and Inria datasets) demonstrate that our method achieves a new state-of-the-art in terms of instance segmentation and polygonal metrics compared with state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, qualitative results verify the superiority and effectiveness of our model under complex scenes. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Speeding Up Speech Synthesis In Diffusion Models By Reducing Data  Distribution Recovery Steps Via Content Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09652  
**Abstract:** Diffusion based vocoders have been criticised for being slow due to the many steps required during sampling. Moreover, the model's loss function that is popularly implemented is designed such that the target is the original input $x_0$ or error $\epsilon_0$. For early time steps of the reverse process, this results in large prediction errors, which can lead to speech distortions and increase the learning time. We propose a setup where the targets are the different outputs of forward process time steps with a goal to reduce the magnitude of prediction errors and reduce the training time. We use the different layers of a neural network (NN) to perform denoising by training them to learn to generate representations similar to the noised outputs in the forward process of the diffusion. The NN layers learn to progressively denoise the input in the reverse process until finally the final layer estimates the clean speech. To avoid 1:1 mapping between layers of the neural network and the forward process steps, we define a skip parameter $\tau>1$ such that an NN layer is trained to cumulatively remove the noise injected in the $\tau$ steps in the forward process. This significantly reduces the number of data distribution recovery steps and, consequently, the time to generate speech. We show through extensive evaluation that the proposed technique generates high-fidelity speech in competitive time that outperforms current state-of-the-art tools. The proposed technique is also able to generalize well to unseen speech. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** A Novel Method of Fuzzy Topic Modeling based on Transformer Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09658  
**Abstract:** Topic modeling is admittedly a convenient way to monitor markets trend. Conventionally, Latent Dirichlet Allocation, LDA, is considered a must-do model to gain this type of information. By given the merit of deducing keyword with token conditional probability in LDA, we can know the most possible or essential topic. However, the results are not intuitive because the given topics cannot wholly fit human knowledge. LDA offers the first possible relevant keywords, which also brings out another problem of whether the connection is reliable based on the statistic possibility. It is also hard to decide the topic number manually in advance. As the booming trend of using fuzzy membership to cluster and using transformers to embed words, this work presents the fuzzy topic modeling based on soft clustering and document embedding from state-of-the-art transformer-based model. In our practical application in a press release monitoring, the fuzzy topic modeling gives a more natural result than the traditional output from LDA. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** High-order BDF convolution quadrature for fractional evolution equations  with hyper-singular source term  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09664  
**Abstract:** Anomalous diffusion in the presence or absence of an external force field is often modelled in terms of the fractional evolution equations, which can involve the hyper-singular source term. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Unified Frequency-Assisted Transformer Framework for Detecting and  Grounding Multi-Modal Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09667  
**Abstract:** Detecting and grounding multi-modal media manipulation (DGM^4) has become increasingly crucial due to the widespread dissemination of face forgery and text misinformation. In this paper, we present the Unified Frequency-Assisted transFormer framework, named UFAFormer, to address the DGM^4 problem. Unlike previous state-of-the-art methods that solely focus on the image (RGB) domain to describe visual forgery features, we additionally introduce the frequency domain as a complementary viewpoint. By leveraging the discrete wavelet transform, we decompose images into several frequency sub-bands, capturing rich face forgery artifacts. Then, our proposed frequency encoder, incorporating intra-band and inter-band self-attentions, explicitly aggregates forgery features within and across diverse sub-bands. Moreover, to address the semantic conflicts between image and frequency domains, the forgery-aware mutual module is developed to further enable the effective interaction of disparate image and frequency features, resulting in aligned and comprehensive visual forgery representations. Finally, based on visual and textual forgery features, we propose a unified decoder that comprises two symmetric cross-modal interaction modules responsible for gathering modality-specific forgery information, along with a fusing interaction module for aggregation of both modalities. The proposed unified decoder formulates our UFAFormer as a unified framework, ultimately simplifying the overall architecture and facilitating the optimization process. Experimental results on the DGM^4 dataset, containing several perturbations, demonstrate the superior performance of our framework compared to previous methods, setting a new benchmark in the field. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Conditioning Latent-Space Clusters for Real-World Anomaly Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09676  
**Abstract:** Anomalies in the domain of autonomous driving are a major hindrance to the large-scale deployment of autonomous vehicles. In this work, we focus on high-resolution camera data from urban scenes that include anomalies of various types and sizes. Based on a Variational Autoencoder, we condition its latent space to classify samples as either normal data or anomalies. In order to emphasize especially small anomalies, we perform experiments where we provide the VAE with a discrepancy map as an additional input, evaluating its impact on the detection performance. Our method separates normal data and anomalies into isolated clusters while still reconstructing high-quality images, leading to meaningful latent representations. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** CATR: Combinatorial-Dependence Audio-Queried Transformer for  Audio-Visual Video Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09709  
**Abstract:** Audio-visual video segmentation~(AVVS) aims to generate pixel-level maps of sound-producing objects within image frames and ensure the maps faithfully adhere to the given audio, such as identifying and segmenting a singing person in a video. However, existing methods exhibit two limitations: 1) they address video temporal features and audio-visual interactive features separately, disregarding the inherent spatial-temporal dependence of combined audio and video, and 2) they inadequately introduce audio constraints and object-level information during the decoding stage, resulting in segmentation outcomes that fail to comply with audio directives. To tackle these issues, we propose a decoupled audio-video transformer that combines audio and video features from their respective temporal and spatial dimensions, capturing their combined dependence. To optimize memory consumption, we design a block, which, when stacked, enables capturing audio-visual fine-grained combinatorial-dependence in a memory-efficient manner. Additionally, we introduce audio-constrained queries during the decoding phase. These queries contain rich object-level information, ensuring the decoded mask adheres to the sounds. Experimental results confirm our approach's effectiveness, with our framework achieving a new SOTA performance on all three datasets using two backbones. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/aspirinone/CATR.github.io} 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** Facilitating NSFW Text Detection in Open-Domain Dialogue Systems via  Knowledge Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09749  
**Abstract:** NSFW (Not Safe for Work) content, in the context of a dialogue, can have severe side effects on users in open-domain dialogue systems. However, research on detecting NSFW language, especially sexually explicit content, within a dialogue context has significantly lagged behind. To address this issue, we introduce CensorChat, a dialogue monitoring dataset aimed at NSFW dialogue detection. Leveraging knowledge distillation techniques involving GPT-4 and ChatGPT, this dataset offers a cost-effective means of constructing NSFW content detectors. The process entails collecting real-life human-machine interaction data and breaking it down into single utterances and single-turn dialogues, with the chatbot delivering the final utterance. ChatGPT is employed to annotate unlabeled data, serving as a training set. Rationale validation and test sets are constructed using ChatGPT and GPT-4 as annotators, with a self-criticism strategy for resolving discrepancies in labeling. A BERT model is fine-tuned as a text classifier on pseudo-labeled data, and its performance is assessed. The study emphasizes the importance of AI systems prioritizing user safety and well-being in digital conversations while respecting freedom of expression. The proposed approach not only advances NSFW content detection but also aligns with evolving user protection needs in AI-driven dialogues. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Application-driven Validation of Posteriors in Inverse Problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09764  
**Abstract:** Current deep learning-based solutions for image analysis tasks are commonly incapable of handling problems to which multiple different plausible solutions exist. In response, posterior-based methods such as conditional Diffusion Models and Invertible Neural Networks have emerged; however, their translation is hampered by a lack of research on adequate validation. In other words, the way progress is measured often does not reflect the needs of the driving practical application. Closing this gap in the literature, we present the first systematic framework for the application-driven validation of posterior-based methods in inverse problems. As a methodological novelty, it adopts key principles from the field of object detection validation, which has a long history of addressing the question of how to locate and match multiple object instances in an image. Treating modes as instances enables us to perform mode-centric validation, using well-interpretable metrics from the application perspective. We demonstrate the value of our framework through instantiations for a synthetic toy example and two medical vision use cases: pose estimation in surgery and imaging-based quantification of functional tissue parameters for diagnostics. Our framework offers key advantages over common approaches to posterior validation in all three examples and could thus revolutionize performance assessment in inverse problems. 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** DriveDreamer: Towards Real-world-driven World Models for Autonomous  Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09777  
**Abstract:** World models, especially in autonomous driving, are trending and drawing extensive attention due to their capacity for comprehending driving environments. The established world model holds immense potential for the generation of high-quality driving videos, and driving policies for safe maneuvering. However, a critical limitation in relevant research lies in its predominant focus on gaming environments or simulated settings, thereby lacking the representation of real-world driving scenarios. Therefore, we introduce DriveDreamer, a pioneering world model entirely derived from real-world driving scenarios. Regarding that modeling the world in intricate driving scenes entails an overwhelming search space, we propose harnessing the powerful diffusion model to construct a comprehensive representation of the complex environment. Furthermore, we introduce a two-stage training pipeline. In the initial phase, DriveDreamer acquires a deep understanding of structured traffic constraints, while the subsequent stage equips it with the ability to anticipate future states. The proposed DriveDreamer is the first world model established from real-world driving scenarios. We instantiate DriveDreamer on the challenging nuScenes benchmark, and extensive experiments verify that DriveDreamer empowers precise, controllable video generation that faithfully captures the structural constraints of real-world traffic scenarios. Additionally, DriveDreamer enables the generation of realistic and reasonable driving policies, opening avenues for interaction and practical applications. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** Grasp-Anything: Large-scale Grasp Dataset from Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09818  
**Abstract:** Foundation models such as ChatGPT have made significant strides in robotic tasks due to their universal representation of real-world domains. In this paper, we leverage foundation models to tackle grasp detection, a persistent challenge in robotics with broad industrial applications. Despite numerous grasp datasets, their object diversity remains limited compared to real-world figures. Fortunately, foundation models possess an extensive repository of real-world knowledge, including objects we encounter in our daily lives. As a consequence, a promising solution to the limited representation in previous grasp datasets is to harness the universal knowledge embedded in these foundation models. We present Grasp-Anything, a new large-scale grasp dataset synthesized from foundation models to implement this solution. Grasp-Anything excels in diversity and magnitude, boasting 1M samples with text descriptions and more than 3M objects, surpassing prior datasets. Empirically, we show that Grasp-Anything successfully facilitates zero-shot grasp detection on vision-based tasks and real-world robotic experiments. Our dataset and code are available at https://grasp-anything-2023.github.io. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Bias of AI-Generated Content: An Examination of News Produced by Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09825  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have the potential to transform our lives and work through the content they generate, known as AI-Generated Content (AIGC). To harness this transformation, we need to understand the limitations of LLMs. Here, we investigate the bias of AIGC produced by seven representative LLMs, including ChatGPT and LLaMA. We collect news articles from The New York Times and Reuters, both known for delivering relatively unbiased news. We then apply each examined LLM to generate news content with headlines of these news articles as prompts, and evaluate the gender and racial biases of the AIGC produced by the LLM by comparing the AIGC and the original news articles. We further analyze the gender bias of each LLM under biased prompts by adding gender-biased messages to prompts constructed from these news headlines. Our study reveals that the AIGC produced by each examined LLM demonstrates substantial gender and racial biases. Moreover, the AIGC generated by each LLM exhibits notable discrimination against females and individuals of the Black race. Among the LLMs, the AIGC generated by ChatGPT demonstrates the lowest level of bias, and ChatGPT is the sole model capable of declining content generation when provided with biased prompts. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** Efficient Avoidance of Vulnerabilities in Auto-completed Smart Contract  Code Using Vulnerability-constrained Decoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09826  
**Abstract:** Auto-completing code enables developers to speed up coding significantly. Recent advances in transformer-based large language model (LLM) technologies have been applied to code synthesis. However, studies show that many of such synthesized codes contain vulnerabilities. We propose a novel vulnerability-constrained decoding approach to reduce the amount of vulnerable code generated by such models. Using a small dataset of labeled vulnerable lines of code, we fine-tune an LLM to include vulnerability labels when generating code, acting as an embedded classifier. Then, during decoding, we deny the model to generate these labels to avoid generating vulnerable code. To evaluate the method, we chose to automatically complete Ethereum Blockchain smart contracts (SCs) as the case study due to the strict requirements of SC security. We first fine-tuned the 6-billion-parameter GPT-J model using 186,397 Ethereum SCs after removing the duplication from 2,217,692 SCs. The fine-tuning took more than one week using ten GPUs. The results showed that our fine-tuned model could synthesize SCs with an average BLEU (BiLingual Evaluation Understudy) score of 0.557. However, many codes in the auto-completed SCs were vulnerable. Using the code before the vulnerable line of 176 SCs containing different types of vulnerabilities to auto-complete the code, we found that more than 70% of the auto-completed codes were insecure. Thus, we further fine-tuned the model on other 941 vulnerable SCs containing the same types of vulnerabilities and applied vulnerability-constrained decoding. The fine-tuning took only one hour with four GPUs. We then auto-completed the 176 SCs again and found that our approach could identify 62% of the code to be generated as vulnerable and avoid generating 67% of them, indicating the approach could efficiently and effectively avoid vulnerabilities in the auto-completed code. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** Unsupervised Open-Vocabulary Object Localization in Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09858  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we show that recent advances in video representation learning and pre-trained vision-language models allow for substantial improvements in self-supervised video object localization. We propose a method that first localizes objects in videos via a slot attention approach and then assigns text to the obtained slots. The latter is achieved by an unsupervised way to read localized semantic information from the pre-trained CLIP model. The resulting video object localization is entirely unsupervised apart from the implicit annotation contained in CLIP, and it is effectively the first unsupervised approach that yields good results on regular video benchmarks. 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** EGFE: End-to-end Grouping of Fragmented Elements in UI Designs with  Multimodal Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09867  
**Abstract:** When translating UI design prototypes to code in industry, automatically generating code from design prototypes can expedite the development of applications and GUI iterations. However, in design prototypes without strict design specifications, UI components may be composed of fragmented elements. Grouping these fragmented elements can greatly improve the readability and maintainability of the generated code. Current methods employ a two-stage strategy that introduces hand-crafted rules to group fragmented elements. Unfortunately, the performance of these methods is not satisfying due to visually overlapped and tiny UI elements. In this study, we propose EGFE, a novel method for automatically End-to-end Grouping Fragmented Elements via UI sequence prediction. To facilitate the UI understanding, we innovatively construct a Transformer encoder to model the relationship between the UI elements with multi-modal representation learning. The evaluation on a dataset of 4606 UI prototypes collected from professional UI designers shows that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines in the precision (by 29.75\%), recall (by 31.07\%), and F1-score (by 30.39\%) at edit distance threshold of 4. In addition, we conduct an empirical study to assess the improvement of the generated front-end code. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a real software engineering application. Our end-to-end fragmented elements grouping method creates opportunities for improving UI-related software engineering tasks. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** Towards Ontology Construction with Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09898  
**Abstract:** We present a method for automatically constructing a concept hierarchy for a given domain by querying a large language model. We apply this method to various domains using OpenAI's GPT 3.5. Our experiments indicate that LLMs can be of considerable help for constructing concept hierarchies. 

**ID:** 94  
**Title:** What is a Fair Diffusion Model? Designing Generative Text-To-Image  Models to Incorporate Various Worldviews  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09944  
**Abstract:** Generative text-to-image (GTI) models produce high-quality images from short textual descriptions and are widely used in academic and creative domains. However, GTI models frequently amplify biases from their training data, often producing prejudiced or stereotypical images. Yet, current bias mitigation strategies are limited and primarily focus on enforcing gender parity across occupations. To enhance GTI bias mitigation, we introduce DiffusionWorldViewer, a tool to analyze and manipulate GTI models' attitudes, values, stories, and expectations of the world that impact its generated images. Through an interactive interface deployed as a web-based GUI and Jupyter Notebook plugin, DiffusionWorldViewer categorizes existing demographics of GTI-generated images and provides interactive methods to align image demographics with user worldviews. In a study with 13 GTI users, we find that DiffusionWorldViewer allows users to represent their varied viewpoints about what GTI outputs are fair and, in doing so, challenges current notions of fairness that assume a universal worldview. 

**ID:** 95  
**Title:** Generating and Imputing Tabular Data via Diffusion and Flow-based  Gradient-Boosted Trees  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09968  
**Abstract:** Tabular data is hard to acquire and is subject to missing values. This paper proposes a novel approach to generate and impute mixed-type (continuous and categorical) tabular data using score-based diffusion and conditional flow matching. Contrary to previous work that relies on neural networks as function approximators, we instead utilize XGBoost, a popular Gradient-Boosted Tree (GBT) method. In addition to being elegant, we empirically show on various datasets that our method i) generates highly realistic synthetic data when the training dataset is either clean or tainted by missing data and ii) generates diverse plausible data imputations. Our method often outperforms deep-learning generation methods and can trained in parallel using CPUs without the need for a GPU. To make it easily accessible, we release our code through a Python library on PyPI and an R package on CRAN. 

**ID:** 96  
**Title:** General In-Hand Object Rotation with Vision and Touch  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09979  
**Abstract:** We introduce RotateIt, a system that enables fingertip-based object rotation along multiple axes by leveraging multimodal sensory inputs. Our system is trained in simulation, where it has access to ground-truth object shapes and physical properties. Then we distill it to operate on realistic yet noisy simulated visuotactile and proprioceptive sensory inputs. These multimodal inputs are fused via a visuotactile transformer, enabling online inference of object shapes and physical properties during deployment. We show significant performance improvements over prior methods and the importance of visual and tactile sensing. 

**ID:** 97  
**Title:** Quantifying Credit Portfolio sensitivity to asset correlations with  interpretable generative neural networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08652  
**Abstract:** In this research, we propose a novel approach for the quantification of credit portfolio Value-at-Risk (VaR) sensitivity to asset correlations with the use of synthetic financial correlation matrices generated with deep learning models. In previous work Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) were employed to demonstrate the generation of plausible correlation matrices, that capture the essential characteristics observed in empirical correlation matrices estimated on asset returns. Instead of GANs, we employ Variational Autoencoders (VAE) to achieve a more interpretable latent space representation. Through our analysis, we reveal that the VAE latent space can be a useful tool to capture the crucial factors impacting portfolio diversification, particularly in relation to credit portfolio sensitivity to asset correlations changes. 

**ID:** 98  
**Title:** Mining Patents with Large Language Models Demonstrates Congruence of  Functional Labels and Chemical Structures  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08765  
**Abstract:** Predicting chemical function from structure is a major goal of the chemical sciences, from the discovery and repurposing of novel drugs to the creation of new materials. Recently, new machine learning algorithms are opening up the possibility of general predictive models spanning many different chemical functions. Here, we consider the challenge of applying large language models to chemical patents in order to consolidate and leverage the information about chemical functionality captured by these resources. Chemical patents contain vast knowledge on chemical function, but their usefulness as a dataset has historically been neglected due to the impracticality of extracting high-quality functional labels. Using a scalable ChatGPT-assisted patent summarization and word-embedding label cleaning pipeline, we derive a Chemical Function (CheF) dataset, containing 100K molecules and their patent-derived functional labels. The functional labels were validated to be of high quality, allowing us to detect a strong relationship between functional label and chemical structural spaces. Further, we find that the co-occurrence graph of the functional labels contains a robust semantic structure, which allowed us in turn to examine functional relatedness among the compounds. We then trained a model on the CheF dataset, allowing us to assign new functional labels to compounds. Using this model, we were able to retrodict approved Hepatitis C antivirals, uncover an antiviral mechanism undisclosed in the patent, and identify plausible serotonin-related drugs. The CheF dataset and associated model offers a promising new approach to predict chemical functionality. 

**ID:** 99  
**Title:** BioinspiredLLM: Conversational Large Language Model for the Mechanics of  Biological and Bio-inspired Materials  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08788  
**Abstract:** The study of biological materials and bio-inspired materials science is well established; however, surprisingly little knowledge has been systematically translated to engineering solutions. To accelerate discovery and guide insights, an open-source autoregressive transformer large language model, BioinspiredLLM, is reported. The model was finetuned with a corpus of over a thousand peer-reviewed articles in the field of structural biological and bio-inspired materials and can be prompted to actively and interactively recall information, assist with research tasks, and function as an engine for creativity. The model has proven by example that it is not only able to accurately recall information about biological materials when queried but also formulate biomaterials questions and answers that can evaluate its own performance. BioinspiredLLM also has been shown to develop sound hypotheses regarding biological materials design and remarkably so for materials that have never been explicitly studied before. Lastly, the model showed impressive promise in collaborating with other generative artificial intelligence models in a workflow that can reshape the traditional materials design process. This collaborative generative artificial intelligence method can stimulate and enhance bio-inspired materials design workflows. Biological materials is at a critical intersection of multiple scientific fields and models like BioinspiredLLM help to connect knowledge domains. 

**ID:** 100  
**Title:** Decoder-only Architecture for Speech Recognition with CTC Prompts and  Text Data Augmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.08876  
**Abstract:** Collecting audio-text pairs is expensive; however, it is much easier to access text-only data. Unless using shallow fusion, end-to-end automatic speech recognition (ASR) models require architecture modifications or additional training schemes to use text-only data. Inspired by recent advances in decoder-only language models (LMs), such as GPT-3 and PaLM adopted for speech-processing tasks, we propose using a decoder-only architecture for ASR with simple text augmentation. To provide audio information, encoder features compressed by CTC prediction are used as prompts for the decoder, which can be regarded as refining CTC prediction using the decoder-only model. Because the decoder architecture is the same as an autoregressive LM, it is simple to enhance the model by leveraging external text data with LM training. An experimental comparison using LibriSpeech and Switchboard shows that our proposed models with text augmentation training reduced word error rates from ordinary CTC by 0.3% and 1.4% on LibriSpeech test-clean and testother set, respectively, and 2.9% and 5.0% on Switchboard and CallHome. The proposed model had advantage on computational efficiency compared with conventional encoder-decoder ASR models with a similar parameter setup, and outperformed them on the LibriSpeech 100h and Switchboard training scenarios. 

**ID:** 101  
**Title:** PromptVC: Flexible Stylistic Voice Conversion in Latent Space Driven by  Natural Language Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09262  
**Abstract:** Style voice conversion aims to transform the style of source speech to a desired style according to real-world application demands. However, the current style voice conversion approach relies on pre-defined labels or reference speech to control the conversion process, which leads to limitations in style diversity or falls short in terms of the intuitive and interpretability of style representation. In this study, we propose PromptVC, a novel style voice conversion approach that employs a latent diffusion model to generate a style vector driven by natural language prompts. Specifically, the style vector is extracted by a style encoder during training, and then the latent diffusion model is trained independently to sample the style vector from noise, with this process being conditioned on natural language prompts. To improve style expressiveness, we leverage HuBERT to extract discrete tokens and replace them with the K-Means center embedding to serve as the linguistic content, which minimizes residual style information. Additionally, we deduplicate the same discrete token and employ a differentiable duration predictor to re-predict the duration of each token, which can adapt the duration of the same linguistic content to different styles. The subjective and objective evaluation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed system. 

**ID:** 102  
**Title:** Enhancing Multilingual Speech Recognition through Language Prompt Tuning  and Frame-Level Language Adapter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09443  
**Abstract:** Multilingual intelligent assistants, such as ChatGPT, have recently gained popularity. To further expand the applications of multilingual artificial intelligence assistants and facilitate international communication, it is essential to enhance the performance of multilingual speech recognition, which is a crucial component of speech interaction. In this paper, we propose two simple and parameter-efficient methods: language prompt tuning and frame-level language adapter, to respectively enhance language-configurable and language-agnostic multilingual speech recognition. Additionally, we explore the feasibility of integrating these two approaches using parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods. Our experiments demonstrate significant performance improvements across seven languages using our proposed methods. 

**ID:** 103  
**Title:** Self-supervised TransUNet for Ultrasound regional segmentation of the  distal radius in children  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09490  
**Abstract:** Supervised deep learning offers great promise to automate analysis of medical images from segmentation to diagnosis. However, their performance highly relies on the quality and quantity of the data annotation. Meanwhile, curating large annotated datasets for medical images requires a high level of expertise, which is time-consuming and expensive. Recently, to quench the thirst for large data sets with high-quality annotation, self-supervised learning (SSL) methods using unlabeled domain-specific data, have attracted attention. Therefore, designing an SSL method that relies on minimal quantities of labeled data has far-reaching significance in medical images. This paper investigates the feasibility of deploying the Masked Autoencoder for SSL (SSL-MAE) of TransUNet, for segmenting bony regions from children's wrist ultrasound scans. We found that changing the embedding and loss function in SSL-MAE can produce better downstream results compared to the original SSL-MAE. In addition, we determined that only pretraining TransUNet embedding and encoder with SSL-MAE does not work as well as TransUNet without SSL-MAE pretraining on downstream segmentation tasks. 

**ID:** 104  
**Title:** HiFTNet: A Fast High-Quality Neural Vocoder with Harmonic-plus-Noise  Filter and Inverse Short Time Fourier Transform  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09493  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in speech synthesis have leveraged GAN-based networks like HiFi-GAN and BigVGAN to produce high-fidelity waveforms from mel-spectrograms. However, these networks are computationally expensive and parameter-heavy. iSTFTNet addresses these limitations by integrating inverse short-time Fourier transform (iSTFT) into the network, achieving both speed and parameter efficiency. In this paper, we introduce an extension to iSTFTNet, termed HiFTNet, which incorporates a harmonic-plus-noise source filter in the time-frequency domain that uses a sinusoidal source from the fundamental frequency (F0) inferred via a pre-trained F0 estimation network for fast inference speed. Subjective evaluations on LJSpeech show that our model significantly outperforms both iSTFTNet and HiFi-GAN, achieving ground-truth-level performance. HiFTNet also outperforms BigVGAN-base on LibriTTS for unseen speakers and achieves comparable performance to BigVGAN while being four times faster with only $1/6$ of the parameters. Our work sets a new benchmark for efficient, high-quality neural vocoding, paving the way for real-time applications that demand high quality speech synthesis. 

**ID:** 105  
**Title:** Single and Few-step Diffusion for Generative Speech Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09677  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have shown promising results in speech enhancement, using a task-adapted diffusion process for the conditional generation of clean speech given a noisy mixture. However, at test time, the neural network used for score estimation is called multiple times to solve the iterative reverse process. This results in a slow inference process and causes discretization errors that accumulate over the sampling trajectory. In this paper, we address these limitations through a two-stage training approach. In the first stage, we train the diffusion model the usual way using the generative denoising score matching loss. In the second stage, we compute the enhanced signal by solving the reverse process and compare the resulting estimate to the clean speech target using a predictive loss. We show that using this second training stage enables achieving the same performance as the baseline model using only 5 function evaluations instead of 60 function evaluations. While the performance of usual generative diffusion algorithms drops dramatically when lowering the number of function evaluations (NFEs) to obtain single-step diffusion, we show that our proposed method keeps a steady performance and therefore largely outperforms the diffusion baseline in this setting and also generalizes better than its predictive counterpart. 

**ID:** 106  
**Title:** RECAP: Retrieval-Augmented Audio Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09836  
**Abstract:** We present RECAP (REtrieval-Augmented Audio CAPtioning), a novel and effective audio captioning system that generates captions conditioned on an input audio and other captions similar to the audio retrieved from a datastore. Additionally, our proposed method can transfer to any domain without the need for any additional fine-tuning. To generate a caption for an audio sample, we leverage an audio-text model CLAP to retrieve captions similar to it from a replaceable datastore, which are then used to construct a prompt. Next, we feed this prompt to a GPT-2 decoder and introduce cross-attention layers between the CLAP encoder and GPT-2 to condition the audio for caption generation. Experiments on two benchmark datasets, Clotho and AudioCaps, show that RECAP achieves competitive performance in in-domain settings and significant improvements in out-of-domain settings. Additionally, due to its capability to exploit a large text-captions-only datastore in a \textit{training-free} fashion, RECAP shows unique capabilities of captioning novel audio events never seen during training and compositional audios with multiple events. To promote research in this space, we also release 150,000+ new weakly labeled captions for AudioSet, AudioCaps, and Clotho. 

**ID:** 107  
**Title:** Distilling HuBERT with LSTMs via Decoupled Knowledge Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09920  
**Abstract:** Much research effort is being applied to the task of compressing the knowledge of self-supervised models, which are powerful, yet large and memory consuming. In this work, we show that the original method of knowledge distillation (and its more recently proposed extension, decoupled knowledge distillation) can be applied to the task of distilling HuBERT. In contrast to methods that focus on distilling internal features, this allows for more freedom in the network architecture of the compressed model. We thus propose to distill HuBERT's Transformer layers into an LSTM-based distilled model that reduces the number of parameters even below DistilHuBERT and at the same time shows improved performance in automatic speech recognition. 

