**ID:** 1  
**Title:** OpenAI Cribbed Our Tax Example, But Can GPT-4 Really Do Tax?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09992  
**Abstract:** The authors explain where OpenAI got the tax law example in its livestream demonstration of GPT-4, why GPT-4 got the wrong answer, and how it fails to reliably calculate taxes. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Detecting covariate drift in text data using document embeddings and  dimensionality reduction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10000  
**Abstract:** Detecting covariate drift in text data is essential for maintaining the reliability and performance of text analysis models. In this research, we investigate the effectiveness of different document embeddings, dimensionality reduction techniques, and drift detection methods for identifying covariate drift in text data. We explore three popular document embeddings: term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) using Latent semantic analysis(LSA) for dimentionality reduction and Doc2Vec, and BERT embeddings, with and without using principal component analysis (PCA) for dimensionality reduction. To quantify the divergence between training and test data distributions, we employ the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) statistic and the Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) test as drift detection methods. Experimental results demonstrate that certain combinations of embeddings, dimensionality reduction techniques, and drift detection methods outperform others in detecting covariate drift. Our findings contribute to the advancement of reliable text analysis models by providing insights into effective approaches for addressing covariate drift in text data. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** A novel approach to measuring patent claim scope based on probabilities  obtained from (large) language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10003  
**Abstract:** This work proposes to measure the scope of a patent claim as the reciprocal of the self-information contained in this claim. Grounded in information theory, this approach is based on the assumption that a rare concept is more informative than a usual concept, inasmuch as it is more surprising. The self-information is calculated from the probability of occurrence of that claim, where the probability is calculated in accordance with a language model. Five language models are considered, ranging from the simplest models (each word or character is drawn from a uniform distribution) to intermediate models (using average word or character frequencies), to a large language model (GPT2). Interestingly, the simplest language models reduce the scope measure to the reciprocal of the word or character count, a metric already used in previous works. Application is made to nine series of patent claims directed to distinct inventions, where the claims in each series have a gradually decreasing scope. The performance of the language models is then assessed with respect to several ad hoc tests. The more sophisticated the model, the better the results. The GPT2 model outperforms models based on word and character frequencies, which are themselves ahead of models based on word and character counts. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Instant Photorealistic Style Transfer: A Lightweight and Adaptive  Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10011  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose an Instant Photorealistic Style Transfer (IPST) approach, designed to achieve instant photorealistic style transfer on super-resolution inputs without the need for pre-training on pair-wise datasets or imposing extra constraints. Our method utilizes a lightweight StyleNet to enable style transfer from a style image to a content image while preserving non-color information. To further enhance the style transfer process, we introduce an instance-adaptive optimization to prioritize the photorealism of outputs and accelerate the convergence of the style network, leading to a rapid training completion within seconds. Moreover, IPST is well-suited for multi-frame style transfer tasks, as it retains temporal and multi-view consistency of the multi-frame inputs such as video and Neural Radiance Field (NeRF). Experimental results demonstrate that IPST requires less GPU memory usage, offers faster multi-frame transfer speed, and generates photorealistic outputs, making it a promising solution for various photorealistic transfer applications. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Looking through the past: better knowledge retention for generative  replay in continual learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10012  
**Abstract:** In this work, we improve the generative replay in a continual learning setting to perform well on challenging scenarios. Current generative rehearsal methods are usually benchmarked on small and simple datasets as they are not powerful enough to generate more complex data with a greater number of classes. We notice that in VAE-based generative replay, this could be attributed to the fact that the generated features are far from the original ones when mapped to the latent space. Therefore, we propose three modifications that allow the model to learn and generate complex data. More specifically, we incorporate the distillation in latent space between the current and previous models to reduce feature drift. Additionally, a latent matching for the reconstruction and original data is proposed to improve generated features alignment. Further, based on the observation that the reconstructions are better for preserving knowledge, we add the cycling of generations through the previously trained model to make them closer to the original data. Our method outperforms other generative replay methods in various scenarios. Code available at https://github.com/valeriya-khan/looking-through-the-past. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Prognosis of Multivariate Battery State of Performance and Health via  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10014  
**Abstract:** Batteries are an essential component in a deeply decarbonized future. Understanding battery performance and "useful life" as a function of design and use is of paramount importance to accelerating adoption. Historically, battery state of health (SOH) was summarized by a single parameter, the fraction of a battery's capacity relative to its initial state. A more useful approach, however, is a comprehensive characterization of its state and complexities, using an interrelated set of descriptors including capacity, energy, ionic and electronic impedances, open circuit voltages, and microstructure metrics. Indeed, predicting across an extensive suite of properties as a function of battery use is a "holy grail" of battery science; it can provide unprecedented insights toward the design of better batteries with reduced experimental effort, and de-risking energy storage investments that are necessary to meet CO2 reduction targets. In this work, we present a first step in that direction via deep transformer networks for the prediction of 28 battery state of health descriptors using two cycling datasets representing six lithium-ion cathode chemistries (LFP, NMC111, NMC532, NMC622, HE5050, and 5Vspinel), multiple electrolyte/anode compositions, and different charge-discharge scenarios. The accuracy of these predictions versus battery life (with an unprecedented mean absolute error of 19 cycles in predicting end of life for an LFP fast-charging dataset) illustrates the promise of deep learning towards providing deeper understanding and control of battery health. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** SYNDICOM: Improving Conversational Commonsense with Error-Injection and  Natural Language Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10015  
**Abstract:** Commonsense reasoning is a critical aspect of human communication. Despite recent advances in conversational AI driven by large language models, commonsense reasoning remains a challenging task. In this work, we introduce SYNDICOM - a method for improving commonsense in dialogue response generation. SYNDICOM consists of two components. The first component is a dataset composed of commonsense dialogues created from a knowledge graph and synthesized into natural language. This dataset includes both valid and invalid responses to dialogue contexts, along with natural language feedback (NLF) for the invalid responses. The second contribution is a two-step procedure: training a model to predict natural language feedback (NLF) for invalid responses, and then training a response generation model conditioned on the predicted NLF, the invalid response, and the dialogue. SYNDICOM is scalable and does not require reinforcement learning. Empirical results on three tasks are evaluated using a broad range of metrics. SYNDICOM achieves a relative improvement of 53% over ChatGPT on ROUGE1, and human evaluators prefer SYNDICOM over ChatGPT 57% of the time. We will publicly release the code and the full dataset. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Evaluation of GPT-3 for Anti-Cancer Drug Sensitivity Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10016  
**Abstract:** In this study, we investigated the potential of GPT-3 for the anti-cancer drug sensitivity prediction task using structured pharmacogenomics data across five tissue types and evaluated its performance with zero-shot prompting and fine-tuning paradigms. The drug's smile representation and cell line's genomic mutation features were predictive of the drug response. The results from this study have the potential to pave the way for designing more efficient treatment protocols in precision oncology. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Parameter-Efficient Long-Tailed Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10019  
**Abstract:** The "pre-training and fine-tuning" paradigm in addressing long-tailed recognition tasks has sparked significant interest since the emergence of large vision-language models like the contrastive language-image pre-training (CLIP). While previous studies have shown promise in adapting pre-trained models for these tasks, they often undesirably require extensive training epochs or additional training data to maintain good performance. In this paper, we propose PEL, a fine-tuning method that can effectively adapt pre-trained models to long-tailed recognition tasks in fewer than 20 epochs without the need for extra data. We first empirically find that commonly used fine-tuning methods, such as full fine-tuning and classifier fine-tuning, suffer from overfitting, resulting in performance deterioration on tail classes. To mitigate this issue, PEL introduces a small number of task-specific parameters by adopting the design of any existing parameter-efficient fine-tuning method. Additionally, to expedite convergence, PEL presents a novel semantic-aware classifier initialization technique derived from the CLIP textual encoder without adding any computational overhead. Our experimental results on four long-tailed datasets demonstrate that PEL consistently outperforms previous state-of-the-art approaches. The source code is available at https://github.com/shijxcs/PEL. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** What does ChatGPT know about natural science and engineering?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10048  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a powerful language model from OpenAI that is arguably able to comprehend and generate text. ChatGPT is expected to have a large impact on society, research, and education. An essential step to understand ChatGPT's expected impact is to study its domain-specific answering capabilities. Here, we perform a systematic empirical assessment of its abilities to answer questions across the natural science and engineering domains. We collected 594 questions from 198 faculty members across 5 faculties at Delft University of Technology. After collecting the answers from ChatGPT, the participants assessed the quality of the answers using a systematic scheme. Our results show that the answers from ChatGPT are on average perceived as ``mostly correct''. Two major trends are that the rating of the ChatGPT answers significantly decreases (i) as the complexity level of the question increases and (ii) as we evaluate skills beyond scientific knowledge, e.g., critical attitude. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Evaluating the Impact of ChatGPT on Exercises of a Software Security  Course  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10085  
**Abstract:** Along with the development of large language models (LLMs), e.g., ChatGPT, many existing approaches and tools for software security are changing. It is, therefore, essential to understand how security-aware these models are and how these models impact software security practices and education. In exercises of a software security course at our university, we ask students to identify and fix vulnerabilities we insert in a web application using state-of-the-art tools. After ChatGPT, especially the GPT-4 version of the model, we want to know how the students can possibly use ChatGPT to complete the exercise tasks. We input the vulnerable code to ChatGPT and measure its accuracy in vulnerability identification and fixing. In addition, we investigated whether ChatGPT can provide a proper source of information to support its outputs. Results show that ChatGPT can identify 20 of the 28 vulnerabilities we inserted in the web application in a white-box setting, reported three false positives, and found four extra vulnerabilities beyond the ones we inserted. ChatGPT makes nine satisfactory penetration testing and fixing recommendations for the ten vulnerabilities we want students to fix and can often point to related sources of information. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Unified Coarse-to-Fine Alignment for Video-Text Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10091  
**Abstract:** The canonical approach to video-text retrieval leverages a coarse-grained or fine-grained alignment between visual and textual information. However, retrieving the correct video according to the text query is often challenging as it requires the ability to reason about both high-level (scene) and low-level (object) visual clues and how they relate to the text query. To this end, we propose a Unified Coarse-to-fine Alignment model, dubbed UCoFiA. Specifically, our model captures the cross-modal similarity information at different granularity levels. To alleviate the effect of irrelevant visual clues, we also apply an Interactive Similarity Aggregation module (ISA) to consider the importance of different visual features while aggregating the cross-modal similarity to obtain a similarity score for each granularity. Finally, we apply the Sinkhorn-Knopp algorithm to normalize the similarities of each level before summing them, alleviating over- and under-representation issues at different levels. By jointly considering the crossmodal similarity of different granularity, UCoFiA allows the effective unification of multi-grained alignments. Empirically, UCoFiA outperforms previous state-of-the-art CLIP-based methods on multiple video-text retrieval benchmarks, achieving 2.4%, 1.4% and 1.3% improvements in text-to-video retrieval R@1 on MSR-VTT, Activity-Net, and DiDeMo, respectively. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/Ziyang412/UCoFiA. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Understanding Catastrophic Forgetting in Language Models via Implicit  Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10105  
**Abstract:** Fine-tuning (via methods such as instruction-tuning or reinforcement learning from human feedback) is a crucial step in training language models to robustly carry out tasks of interest. However, we lack a systematic understanding of the effects of fine-tuning, particularly on tasks outside the narrow fine-tuning distribution. In a simplified scenario, we demonstrate that improving performance on tasks within the fine-tuning data distribution comes at the expense of suppressing model capabilities on other tasks. This degradation is especially pronounced for tasks "closest" to the fine-tuning distribution. We hypothesize that language models implicitly infer the task of the prompt corresponds, and the fine-tuning process predominantly skews this task inference towards tasks in the fine-tuning distribution. To test this hypothesis, we propose Conjugate Prompting to see if we can recover pretrained capabilities. Conjugate prompting artificially makes the task look farther from the fine-tuning distribution while requiring the same capability. We find that conjugate prompting systematically recovers some of the pretraining capabilities on our synthetic setup. We then apply conjugate prompting to real-world LLMs using the observation that fine-tuning distributions are typically heavily skewed towards English. We find that simply translating the prompts to different languages can cause the fine-tuned models to respond like their pretrained counterparts instead. This allows us to recover the in-context learning abilities lost via instruction tuning, and more concerningly, to recover harmful content generation suppressed by safety fine-tuning in chatbots like ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Deep smoothness WENO scheme for two-dimensional hyperbolic conservation  laws: A deep learning approach for learning smoothness indicators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10117  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce an improved version of the fifth-order weighted essentially non-oscillatory (WENO) shock-capturing scheme by incorporating deep learning techniques. The established WENO algorithm is improved by training a compact neural network to adjust the smoothness indicators within the WENO scheme. This modification enhances the accuracy of the numerical results, particularly near abrupt shocks. Unlike previous deep learning-based methods, no additional post-processing steps are necessary for maintaining consistency. We demonstrate the superiority of our new approach using several examples from the literature for the two-dimensional Euler equations of gas dynamics. Through intensive study of these test problems, which involve various shocks and rarefaction waves, the new technique is shown to outperform traditional fifth-order WENO schemes, especially in cases where the numerical solutions exhibit excessive diffusion or overshoot around shocks. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Pre-training on Synthetic Driving Data for Trajectory Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10121  
**Abstract:** Accumulating substantial volumes of real-world driving data proves pivotal in the realm of trajectory forecasting for autonomous driving. Given the heavy reliance of current trajectory forecasting models on data-driven methodologies, we aim to tackle the challenge of learning general trajectory forecasting representations under limited data availability. We propose to augment both HD maps and trajectories and apply pre-training strategies on top of them. Specifically, we take advantage of graph representations of HD-map and apply vector transformations to reshape the maps, to easily enrich the limited number of scenes. Additionally, we employ a rule-based model to generate trajectories based on augmented scenes; thus enlarging the trajectories beyond the collected real ones. To foster the learning of general representations within this augmented dataset, we comprehensively explore the different pre-training strategies, including extending the concept of a Masked AutoEncoder (MAE) for trajectory forecasting. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our data expansion and pre-training strategies, which outperform the baseline prediction model by large margins, e.g. 5.04\%, 3.84\% and 8.30\% in terms of $MR_6$, $minADE_6$ and $minFDE_6$. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Deep Prompt Tuning for Graph Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10131  
**Abstract:** Graph transformers have gained popularity in various graph-based tasks by addressing challenges faced by traditional Graph Neural Networks. However, the quadratic complexity of self-attention operations and the extensive layering in graph transformer architectures present challenges when applying them to graph based prediction tasks. Fine-tuning, a common approach, is resource-intensive and requires storing multiple copies of large models. We propose a novel approach called deep graph prompt tuning as an alternative to fine-tuning for leveraging large graph transformer models in downstream graph based prediction tasks. Our method introduces trainable feature nodes to the graph and pre-pends task-specific tokens to the graph transformer, enhancing the model's expressive power. By freezing the pre-trained parameters and only updating the added tokens, our approach reduces the number of free parameters and eliminates the need for multiple model copies, making it suitable for small datasets and scalable to large graphs. Through extensive experiments on various-sized datasets, we demonstrate that deep graph prompt tuning achieves comparable or even superior performance to fine-tuning, despite utilizing significantly fewer task-specific parameters. Our contributions include the introduction of prompt tuning for graph transformers, its application to both graph transformers and message passing graph neural networks, improved efficiency and resource utilization, and compelling experimental results. This work brings attention to a promising approach to leverage pre-trained models in graph based prediction tasks and offers new opportunities for exploring and advancing graph representation learning. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Q-Transformer: Scalable Offline Reinforcement Learning via  Autoregressive Q-Functions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10150  
**Abstract:** In this work, we present a scalable reinforcement learning method for training multi-task policies from large offline datasets that can leverage both human demonstrations and autonomously collected data. Our method uses a Transformer to provide a scalable representation for Q-functions trained via offline temporal difference backups. We therefore refer to the method as Q-Transformer. By discretizing each action dimension and representing the Q-value of each action dimension as separate tokens, we can apply effective high-capacity sequence modeling techniques for Q-learning. We present several design decisions that enable good performance with offline RL training, and show that Q-Transformer outperforms prior offline RL algorithms and imitation learning techniques on a large diverse real-world robotic manipulation task suite. The project's website and videos can be found at https://q-transformer.github.io 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** PolicyGPT: Automated Analysis of Privacy Policies with Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10238  
**Abstract:** Privacy policies serve as the primary conduit through which online service providers inform users about their data collection and usage procedures. However, in a bid to be comprehensive and mitigate legal risks, these policy documents are often quite verbose. In practical use, users tend to click the Agree button directly rather than reading them carefully. This practice exposes users to risks of privacy leakage and legal issues. Recently, the advent of Large Language Models (LLM) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 has opened new possibilities for text analysis, especially for lengthy documents like privacy policies. In this study, we investigate a privacy policy text analysis framework PolicyGPT based on the LLM. This framework was tested using two datasets. The first dataset comprises of privacy policies from 115 websites, which were meticulously annotated by legal experts, categorizing each segment into one of 10 classes. The second dataset consists of privacy policies from 304 popular mobile applications, with each sentence manually annotated and classified into one of another 10 categories. Under zero-shot learning conditions, PolicyGPT demonstrated robust performance. For the first dataset, it achieved an accuracy rate of 97%, while for the second dataset, it attained an 87% accuracy rate, surpassing that of the baseline machine learning and neural network models. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** What is the Best Automated Metric for Text to Motion Generation?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10248  
**Abstract:** There is growing interest in generating skeleton-based human motions from natural language descriptions. While most efforts have focused on developing better neural architectures for this task, there has been no significant work on determining the proper evaluation metric. Human evaluation is the ultimate accuracy measure for this task, and automated metrics should correlate well with human quality judgments. Since descriptions are compatible with many motions, determining the right metric is critical for evaluating and designing effective generative models. This paper systematically studies which metrics best align with human evaluations and proposes new metrics that align even better. Our findings indicate that none of the metrics currently used for this task show even a moderate correlation with human judgments on a sample level. However, for assessing average model performance, commonly used metrics such as R-Precision and less-used coordinate errors show strong correlations. Additionally, several recently developed metrics are not recommended due to their low correlation compared to alternatives. We also introduce a novel metric based on a multimodal BERT-like model, MoBERT, which offers strongly human-correlated sample-level evaluations while maintaining near-perfect model-level correlation. Our results demonstrate that this new metric exhibits extensive benefits over all current alternatives. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** GPTFUZZER : Red Teaming Large Language Models with Auto-Generated  Jailbreak Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10253  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have recently experienced tremendous popularity and are widely used from casual conversations to AI-driven programming. However, despite their considerable success, LLMs are not entirely reliable and can give detailed guidance on how to conduct harmful or illegal activities. While safety measures can reduce the risk of such outputs, adversarial "jailbreak" attacks can still exploit LLMs to produce harmful content. These jailbreak templates are typically manually crafted, making large-scale testing challenging. In this paper, we introduce \fuzzer, a novel black-box jailbreak fuzzing framework inspired by AFL fuzzing framework. Instead of manual engineering, \fuzzer automates the generation of jailbreak templates for red-teaming LLMs. At its core, \fuzzer starts with human-written templates as seeds, then mutates them using mutate operators to produce new templates. We detail three key components of \fuzzer: a seed selection strategy for balancing efficiency and variability, metamorphic relations for creating semantically equivalent or similar sentences, and a judgment model to assess the success of a jailbreak attack. We tested \fuzzer on various commercial and open-source LLMs, such as ChatGPT, LLaMa-2, and Claude2, under diverse attack scenarios. Our results indicate that \fuzzer consistently produces jailbreak templates with a high success rate, even in settings where all human-crafted templates fail. Notably, even starting with suboptimal seed templates, \fuzzer maintains over 90\% attack success rate against ChatGPT and Llama-2 models. We believe \fuzzer will aid researchers and practitioners in assessing LLM robustness and will spur further research into LLM safety. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** LLM Platform Security: Applying a Systematic Evaluation Framework to  OpenAI's ChatGPT Plugins  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10254  
**Abstract:** Large language model (LLM) platforms, such as ChatGPT, have recently begun offering a plugin ecosystem to interface with third-party services on the internet. While these plugins extend the capabilities of LLM platforms, they are developed by arbitrary third parties and thus cannot be implicitly trusted. Plugins also interface with LLM platforms and users using natural language, which can have imprecise interpretations. In this paper, we propose a framework that lays a foundation for LLM platform designers to analyze and improve the security, privacy, and safety of current and future plugin-integrated LLM platforms. Our framework is a formulation of an attack taxonomy that is developed by iteratively exploring how LLM platform stakeholders could leverage their capabilities and responsibilities to mount attacks against each other. As part of our iterative process, we apply our framework in the context of OpenAI's plugin ecosystem. We uncover plugins that concretely demonstrate the potential for the types of issues that we outline in our attack taxonomy. We conclude by discussing novel challenges and by providing recommendations to improve the security, privacy, and safety of present and future LLM-based computing platforms. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Mixed-Distil-BERT: Code-mixed Language Modeling for Bangla, English, and  Hindi  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10272  
**Abstract:** One of the most popular downstream tasks in the field of Natural Language Processing is text classification. Text classification tasks have become more daunting when the texts are code-mixed. Though they are not exposed to such text during pre-training, different BERT models have demonstrated success in tackling Code-Mixed NLP challenges. Again, in order to enhance their performance, Code-Mixed NLP models have depended on combining synthetic data with real-world data. It is crucial to understand how the BERT models' performance is impacted when they are pretrained using corresponding code-mixed languages. In this paper, we introduce Tri-Distil-BERT, a multilingual model pre-trained on Bangla, English, and Hindi, and Mixed-Distil-BERT, a model fine-tuned on code-mixed data. Both models are evaluated across multiple NLP tasks and demonstrate competitive performance against larger models like mBERT and XLM-R. Our two-tiered pre-training approach offers efficient alternatives for multilingual and code-mixed language understanding, contributing to advancements in the field. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Crowdotic: Transformer-based Occupancy Estimation for Hospital Waiting  Rooms with Non-speech Audio and Differential Privacy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10280  
**Abstract:** Privacy-preserving crowd density analysis finds application across a wide range of scenarios, substantially enhancing smart building operation and management while upholding privacy expectations in various spaces. We propose a non-speech audio-based approach for crowd analytics, leveraging a transformer-based model. Our results demonstrate that non-speech audio alone can be used to conduct such analysis with remarkable accuracy. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time when non-speech audio signals are proposed for predicting occupancy. As far as we know, there has been no other similar approach of its kind prior to this. To accomplish this, we deployed our sensor-based platform in the waiting room of a large hospital with IRB approval over a period of several months to capture non-speech audio and thermal images for the training and evaluation of our models. The proposed non-speech-based approach outperformed the thermal camera-based model and all other baselines. In addition to demonstrating superior performance without utilizing speech audio, we conduct further analysis using differential privacy techniques to provide additional privacy guarantees. Overall, our work demonstrates the viability of employing non-speech audio data for accurate occupancy estimation, while also ensuring the exclusion of speech-related content and providing robust privacy protections through differential privacy guarantees. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Julia as a unifying end-to-end workflow language on the Frontier  exascale system  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10292  
**Abstract:** We evaluate using Julia as a single language and ecosystem paradigm powered by LLVM to develop workflow components for high-performance computing. We run a Gray-Scott, 2-variable diffusion-reaction application using a memory-bound, 7-point stencil kernel on Frontier, the US Department of Energy's first exascale supercomputer. We evaluate the feasibility, performance, scaling, and trade-offs of (i) the computational kernel on AMD's MI250x GPUs, (ii) weak scaling up to 4,096 MPI processes/GPUs or 512 nodes, (iii) parallel I/O writes using the ADIOS2 library bindings, and (iv) Jupyter Notebooks for interactive data analysis. Our results suggest that although Julia generates a reasonable LLVM-IR kernel, a nearly 50\% performance difference exists vs. native AMD HIP stencil codes when running on the GPUs. As expected, we observed near-zero overhead when using MPI and parallel I/O bindings for system-wide installed implementations. Consequently, Julia emerges as a compelling high-performance and high-productivity workflow composition strategy, as measured on the fastest supercomputer in the world. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Leveraging Speech PTM, Text LLM, and Emotional TTS for Speech Emotion  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10294  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we explored how to boost speech emotion recognition (SER) with the state-of-the-art speech pre-trained model (PTM), data2vec, text generation technique, GPT-4, and speech synthesis technique, Azure TTS. First, we investigated the representation ability of different speech self-supervised pre-trained models, and we found that data2vec has a good representation ability on the SER task. Second, we employed a powerful large language model (LLM), GPT-4, and emotional text-to-speech (TTS) model, Azure TTS, to generate emotionally congruent text and speech. We carefully designed the text prompt and dataset construction, to obtain the synthetic emotional speech data with high quality. Third, we studied different ways of data augmentation to promote the SER task with synthetic speech, including random mixing, adversarial training, transfer learning, and curriculum learning. Experiments and ablation studies on the IEMOCAP dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, compared with other data augmentation methods, and data augmentation with other synthetic data. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Rigorously Assessing Natural Language Explanations of Neurons  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10312  
**Abstract:** Natural language is an appealing medium for explaining how large language models process and store information, but evaluating the faithfulness of such explanations is challenging. To help address this, we develop two modes of evaluation for natural language explanations that claim individual neurons represent a concept in a text input. In the observational mode, we evaluate claims that a neuron $a$ activates on all and only input strings that refer to a concept picked out by the proposed explanation $E$. In the intervention mode, we construe $E$ as a claim that the neuron $a$ is a causal mediator of the concept denoted by $E$. We apply our framework to the GPT-4-generated explanations of GPT-2 XL neurons of Bills et al. (2023) and show that even the most confident explanations have high error rates and little to no causal efficacy. We close the paper by critically assessing whether natural language is a good choice for explanations and whether neurons are the best level of analysis. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Investigating the Catastrophic Forgetting in Multimodal Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10313  
**Abstract:** Following the success of GPT4, there has been a surge in interest in multimodal large language model (MLLM) research. This line of research focuses on developing general-purpose LLMs through fine-tuning pre-trained LLMs and vision models. However, catastrophic forgetting, a notorious phenomenon where the fine-tuned model fails to retain similar performance compared to the pre-trained model, still remains an inherent problem in multimodal LLMs (MLLM). In this paper, we introduce EMT: Evaluating MulTimodality for evaluating the catastrophic forgetting in MLLMs, by treating each MLLM as an image classifier. We first apply EMT to evaluate several open-source fine-tuned MLLMs and we discover that almost all evaluated MLLMs fail to retain the same performance levels as their vision encoders on standard image classification tasks. Moreover, we continue fine-tuning LLaVA, an MLLM and utilize EMT to assess performance throughout the fine-tuning. Interestingly, our results suggest that early-stage fine-tuning on an image dataset improves performance across other image datasets, by enhancing the alignment of text and visual features. However, as fine-tuning proceeds, the MLLMs begin to hallucinate, resulting in a significant loss of generalizability, even when the image encoder remains frozen. Our results suggest that MLLMs have yet to demonstrate performance on par with their vision models on standard image classification tasks and the current MLLM fine-tuning procedure still has room for improvement. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** FedWOA: A Federated Learning Model that uses the Whale Optimization  Algorithm for Renewable Energy Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10337  
**Abstract:** Privacy is important when dealing with sensitive personal information in machine learning models, which require large data sets for training. In the energy field, access to household prosumer energy data is crucial for energy predictions to support energy grid management and large-scale adoption of renewables however citizens are often hesitant to grant access to cloud-based machine learning models. Federated learning has been proposed as a solution to privacy challenges however report issues in generating the global prediction model due to data heterogeneity, variations in generation patterns, and the high number of parameters leading to even lower prediction accuracy. This paper addresses these challenges by introducing FedWOA a novel federated learning model that employs the Whale Optimization Algorithm to aggregate global prediction models from the weights of local LTSM neural network models trained on prosumer energy data. The proposed solution identifies the optimal vector of weights in the search spaces of the local models to construct the global shared model and then is subsequently transmitted to the local nodes to improve the prediction quality at the prosumer site while for handling non-IID data K-Means was used for clustering prosumers with similar scale of energy data. The evaluation results on prosumers energy data have shown that FedWOA can effectively enhance the accuracy of energy prediction models accuracy by 25% for MSE and 16% for MAE compared to FedAVG while demonstrating good convergence and reduced loss. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** KoBigBird-large: Transformation of Transformer for Korean Language  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10339  
**Abstract:** This work presents KoBigBird-large, a large size of Korean BigBird that achieves state-of-the-art performance and allows long sequence processing for Korean language understanding. Without further pretraining, we only transform the architecture and extend the positional encoding with our proposed Tapered Absolute Positional Encoding Representations (TAPER). In experiments, KoBigBird-large shows state-of-the-art overall performance on Korean language understanding benchmarks and the best performance on document classification and question answering tasks for longer sequences against the competitive baseline models. We publicly release our model here. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Language Guided Adversarial Purification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10348  
**Abstract:** Adversarial purification using generative models demonstrates strong adversarial defense performance. These methods are classifier and attack-agnostic, making them versatile but often computationally intensive. Recent strides in diffusion and score networks have improved image generation and, by extension, adversarial purification. Another highly efficient class of adversarial defense methods known as adversarial training requires specific knowledge of attack vectors, forcing them to be trained extensively on adversarial examples. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a new framework, namely Language Guided Adversarial Purification (LGAP), utilizing pre-trained diffusion models and caption generators to defend against adversarial attacks. Given an input image, our method first generates a caption, which is then used to guide the adversarial purification process through a diffusion network. Our approach has been evaluated against strong adversarial attacks, proving its effectiveness in enhancing adversarial robustness. Our results indicate that LGAP outperforms most existing adversarial defense techniques without requiring specialized network training. This underscores the generalizability of models trained on large datasets, highlighting a promising direction for further research. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** RoadFormer: Duplex Transformer for RGB-Normal Semantic Road Scene  Parsing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10356  
**Abstract:** The recent advancements in deep convolutional neural networks have shown significant promise in the domain of road scene parsing. Nevertheless, the existing works focus primarily on freespace detection, with little attention given to hazardous road defects that could compromise both driving safety and comfort. In this paper, we introduce RoadFormer, a novel Transformer-based data-fusion network developed for road scene parsing. RoadFormer utilizes a duplex encoder architecture to extract heterogeneous features from both RGB images and surface normal information. The encoded features are subsequently fed into a novel heterogeneous feature synergy block for effective feature fusion and recalibration. The pixel decoder then learns multi-scale long-range dependencies from the fused and recalibrated heterogeneous features, which are subsequently processed by a Transformer decoder to produce the final semantic prediction. Additionally, we release SYN-UDTIRI, the first large-scale road scene parsing dataset that contains over 10,407 RGB images, dense depth images, and the corresponding pixel-level annotations for both freespace and road defects of different shapes and sizes. Extensive experimental evaluations conducted on our SYN-UDTIRI dataset, as well as on three public datasets, including KITTI road, CityScapes, and ORFD, demonstrate that RoadFormer outperforms all other state-of-the-art networks for road scene parsing. Specifically, RoadFormer ranks first on the KITTI road benchmark. Our source code, created dataset, and demo video are publicly available at mias.group/RoadFormer. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Improving CLIP Robustness with Knowledge Distillation and Self-Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10361  
**Abstract:** This paper examines the robustness of a multi-modal computer vision model, CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining), in the context of unsupervised learning. The main objective is twofold: first, to evaluate the robustness of CLIP, and second, to explore strategies for augmenting its robustness. To achieve this, we introduce a novel approach named LP-CLIP. This technique involves the distillation of CLIP features through the incorporation of a linear probing layer positioned atop its encoding structure. This newly added layer is trained utilizing pseudo-labels produced by CLIP, coupled with a self-training strategy. The LP-CLIP technique offers a promising approach to enhance the robustness of CLIP without the need for annotations. By leveraging a simple linear probing layer, we aim to improve the model's ability to withstand various uncertainties and challenges commonly encountered in real-world scenarios. Importantly, our approach does not rely on annotated data, which makes it particularly valuable in situations where labeled data might be scarce or costly to obtain. Our proposed approach increases the robustness of CLIP with SOTA results compared to supervised technique on various datasets. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Generative AI vs. AGI: The Cognitive Strengths and Weaknesses of Modern  LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10371  
**Abstract:** A moderately detailed consideration of interactive LLMs as cognitive systems is given, focusing on LLMs circa mid-2023 such as ChatGPT, GPT-4, Bard, Llama, etc.. Cognitive strengths of these systems are reviewed, and then careful attention is paid to the substantial differences between the sort of cognitive system these LLMs are, and the sort of cognitive systems human beings are. It is found that many of the practical weaknesses of these AI systems can be tied specifically to lacks in the basic cognitive architectures according to which these systems are built. It is argued that incremental improvement of such LLMs is not a viable approach to working toward human-level AGI, in practical terms given realizable amounts of compute resources. This does not imply there is nothing to learn about human-level AGI from studying and experimenting with LLMs, nor that LLMs cannot form significant parts of human-level AGI architectures that also incorporate other ideas. Social and ethical matters regarding LLMs are very briefly touched from this perspective, which implies that while care should be taken regarding misinformation and other issues, and economic upheavals will need their own social remedies based on their unpredictable course as with any powerfully impactful technology, overall the sort of policy needed as regards modern LLMs is quite different than would be the case if a more credible approximation to human-level AGI were at hand. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** SideGAN: 3D-Aware Generative Model for Improved Side-View Image  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10388  
**Abstract:** While recent 3D-aware generative models have shown photo-realistic image synthesis with multi-view consistency, the synthesized image quality degrades depending on the camera pose (e.g., a face with a blurry and noisy boundary at a side viewpoint). Such degradation is mainly caused by the difficulty of learning both pose consistency and photo-realism simultaneously from a dataset with heavily imbalanced poses. In this paper, we propose SideGAN, a novel 3D GAN training method to generate photo-realistic images irrespective of the camera pose, especially for faces of side-view angles. To ease the challenging problem of learning photo-realistic and pose-consistent image synthesis, we split the problem into two subproblems, each of which can be solved more easily. Specifically, we formulate the problem as a combination of two simple discrimination problems, one of which learns to discriminate whether a synthesized image looks real or not, and the other learns to discriminate whether a synthesized image agrees with the camera pose. Based on this, we propose a dual-branched discriminator with two discrimination branches. We also propose a pose-matching loss to learn the pose consistency of 3D GANs. In addition, we present a pose sampling strategy to increase learning opportunities for steep angles in a pose-imbalanced dataset. With extensive validation, we demonstrate that our approach enables 3D GANs to generate high-quality geometries and photo-realistic images irrespective of the camera pose. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Augmenting Tactile Simulators with Real-like and Zero-Shot Capabilities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10409  
**Abstract:** Simulating tactile perception could potentially leverage the learning capabilities of robotic systems in manipulation tasks. However, the reality gap of simulators for high-resolution tactile sensors remains large. Models trained on simulated data often fail in zero-shot inference and require fine-tuning with real data. In addition, work on high-resolution sensors commonly focus on ones with flat surfaces while 3D round sensors are essential for dexterous manipulation. In this paper, we propose a bi-directional Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) termed SightGAN. SightGAN relies on the early CycleGAN while including two additional loss components aimed to accurately reconstruct background and contact patterns including small contact traces. The proposed SightGAN learns real-to-sim and sim-to-real processes over difference images. It is shown to generate real-like synthetic images while maintaining accurate contact positioning. The generated images can be used to train zero-shot models for newly fabricated sensors. Consequently, the resulted sim-to-real generator could be built on top of the tactile simulator to provide a real-world framework. Potentially, the framework can be used to train, for instance, reinforcement learning policies of manipulation tasks. The proposed model is verified in extensive experiments with test data collected from real sensors and also shown to maintain embedded force information within the tactile images. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Learning from Teaching Assistants to Program with Subgoals: Exploring  the Potential for AI Teaching Assistants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10419  
**Abstract:** With recent advances in generative AI, conversational models like ChatGPT have become feasible candidates for TAs. We investigate the practicality of using generative AI as TAs in introductory programming education by examining novice learners' interaction with TAs in a subgoal learning environment. To compare the learners' interaction and perception of the AI and human TAs, we conducted a between-subject study with 20 novice programming learners. Learners solve programming tasks by producing subgoals and subsolutions with the guidance of a TA. Our study shows that learners can solve tasks faster with comparable scores with AI TAs. Learners' perception of the AI TA is on par with that of human TAs in terms of speed and comprehensiveness of the replies and helpfulness, difficulty, and satisfaction of the conversation. Finally, we suggest guidelines to better design and utilize generative AI as TAs in programming education from the result of our chat log analysis. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Writer-Defined AI Personas for On-Demand Feedback Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10433  
**Abstract:** Compelling writing is tailored to its audience. This is challenging, as writers may struggle to empathize with readers, get feedback in time, or gain access to the target group. We propose a concept that generates on-demand feedback, based on writer-defined AI personas of any target audience. We explore this concept with a prototype (using GPT-3.5) in two user studies (N=5 and N=11): Writers appreciated the concept and strategically used personas for getting different perspectives. The feedback was seen as helpful and inspired revisions of text and personas, although it was often verbose and unspecific. We discuss the impact of on-demand feedback, the limited representativity of contemporary AI systems, and further ideas for defining AI personas. This work contributes to the vision of supporting writers with AI by expanding the socio-technical perspective in AI tool design: To empower creators, we also need to keep in mind their relationship to an audience. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** AutoDiffusion: Training-Free Optimization of Time Steps and  Architectures for Automated Diffusion Model Acceleration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10438  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are emerging expressive generative models, in which a large number of time steps (inference steps) are required for a single image generation. To accelerate such tedious process, reducing steps uniformly is considered as an undisputed principle of diffusion models. We consider that such a uniform assumption is not the optimal solution in practice; i.e., we can find different optimal time steps for different models. Therefore, we propose to search the optimal time steps sequence and compressed model architecture in a unified framework to achieve effective image generation for diffusion models without any further training. Specifically, we first design a unified search space that consists of all possible time steps and various architectures. Then, a two stage evolutionary algorithm is introduced to find the optimal solution in the designed search space. To further accelerate the search process, we employ FID score between generated and real samples to estimate the performance of the sampled examples. As a result, the proposed method is (i).training-free, obtaining the optimal time steps and model architecture without any training process; (ii). orthogonal to most advanced diffusion samplers and can be integrated to gain better sample quality. (iii). generalized, where the searched time steps and architectures can be directly applied on different diffusion models with the same guidance scale. Experimental results show that our method achieves excellent performance by using only a few time steps, e.g. 17.86 FID score on ImageNet 64 $\times$ 64 with only four steps, compared to 138.66 with DDIM. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Posterior sampling algorithms for unsupervised speech enhancement with  recurrent variational autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10439  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we address the unsupervised speech enhancement problem based on recurrent variational autoencoder (RVAE). This approach offers promising generalization performance over the supervised counterpart. Nevertheless, the involved iterative variational expectation-maximization (VEM) process at test time, which relies on a variational inference method, results in high computational complexity. To tackle this issue, we present efficient sampling techniques based on Langevin dynamics and Metropolis-Hasting algorithms, adapted to the EM-based speech enhancement with RVAE. By directly sampling from the intractable posterior distribution within the EM process, we circumvent the intricacies of variational inference. We conduct a series of experiments, comparing the proposed methods with VEM and a state-of-the-art supervised speech enhancement approach based on diffusion models. The results reveal that our sampling-based algorithms significantly outperform VEM, not only in terms of computational efficiency but also in overall performance. Furthermore, when compared to the supervised baseline, our methods showcase robust generalization performance in mismatched test conditions. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Exploring Self-Reinforcement for Improving Learnersourced  Multiple-Choice Question Explanations with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10444  
**Abstract:** Learnersourcing involves students generating and sharing learning resources with their peers. When learnersourcing multiple-choice questions, creating explanations for the generated questions is a crucial step as it facilitates a deeper understanding of the related concepts. However, it is often difficult for students to craft effective explanations due to limited subject understanding and a tendency to merely restate the question stem, distractors, and correct answer. To help scaffold this task, in this work we propose a self-reinforcement large-language-model framework, with the goal of generating and evaluating explanations automatically. Comprising three modules, the framework generates student-aligned explanations, evaluates these explanations to ensure their quality and iteratively enhances the explanations. If an explanation's evaluation score falls below a defined threshold, the framework iteratively refines and reassesses the explanation. Importantly, our framework emulates the manner in which students compose explanations at the relevant grade level. For evaluation, we had a human subject-matter expert compare the explanations generated by students with the explanations created by the open-source large language model Vicuna-13B, a version of Vicuna-13B that had been fine-tuned using our method, and by GPT-4. We observed that, when compared to other large language models, GPT-4 exhibited a higher level of creativity in generating explanations. We also found that explanations generated by GPT-4 were ranked higher by the human expert than both those created by the other models and the original student-created explanations. Our findings represent a significant advancement in enriching the learnersourcing experience for students and enhancing the capabilities of large language models in educational applications. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Unsupervised speech enhancement with diffusion-based generative models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10450  
**Abstract:** Recently, conditional score-based diffusion models have gained significant attention in the field of supervised speech enhancement, yielding state-of-the-art performance. However, these methods may face challenges when generalising to unseen conditions. To address this issue, we introduce an alternative approach that operates in an unsupervised manner, leveraging the generative power of diffusion models. Specifically, in a training phase, a clean speech prior distribution is learnt in the short-time Fourier transform (STFT) domain using score-based diffusion models, allowing it to unconditionally generate clean speech from Gaussian noise. Then, we develop a posterior sampling methodology for speech enhancement by combining the learnt clean speech prior with a noise model for speech signal inference. The noise parameters are simultaneously learnt along with clean speech estimation through an iterative expectationmaximisation (EM) approach. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work exploring diffusion-based generative models for unsupervised speech enhancement, demonstrating promising results compared to a recent variational auto-encoder (VAE)-based unsupervised approach and a state-of-the-art diffusion-based supervised method. It thus opens a new direction for future research in unsupervised speech enhancement. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Diffusion-based speech enhancement with a weighted generative-supervised  learning loss  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10457  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based generative models have recently gained attention in speech enhancement (SE), providing an alternative to conventional supervised methods. These models transform clean speech training samples into Gaussian noise centered at noisy speech, and subsequently learn a parameterized model to reverse this process, conditionally on noisy speech. Unlike supervised methods, generative-based SE approaches usually rely solely on an unsupervised loss, which may result in less efficient incorporation of conditioned noisy speech. To address this issue, we propose augmenting the original diffusion training objective with a mean squared error (MSE) loss, measuring the discrepancy between estimated enhanced speech and ground-truth clean speech at each reverse process iteration. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methodology. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Exploring the Dark Side of AI: Advanced Phishing Attack Design and  Deployment Using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10463  
**Abstract:** This paper explores the possibility of using ChatGPT to develop advanced phishing attacks and automate their large-scale deployment. We make ChatGPT generate the following parts of a phishing attack: i) cloning a targeted website, ii) integrating code for stealing credentials, iii) obfuscating code, iv) automating website deployment on a hosting provider, v) registering a phishing domain name, and vi) integrating the website with a reverse proxy. The initial assessment of the automatically generated phishing kits highlights their rapid generation and deployment process as well as the close resemblance of the resulting pages to the target website. More broadly, we demonstrate that recent advances in AI underscore the potential risks of its misuse in phishing attacks, which can lead to their increased prevalence and severity. This highlights the necessity for enhanced countermeasures within AI systems. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** LineMarkNet: Line Landmark Detection for Valet Parking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10475  
**Abstract:** We aim for accurate and efficient line landmark detection for valet parking, which is a long-standing yet unsolved problem in autonomous driving. To this end, we present a deep line landmark detection system where we carefully design the modules to be lightweight. Specifically, we first empirically design four general line landmarks including three physical lines and one novel mental line. The four line landmarks are effective for valet parking. We then develop a deep network (LineMarkNet) to detect line landmarks from surround-view cameras where we, via the pre-calibrated homography, fuse context from four separate cameras into the unified bird-eye-view (BEV) space, specifically we fuse the surroundview features and BEV features, then employ the multi-task decoder to detect multiple line landmarks where we apply the center-based strategy for object detection task, and design our graph transformer to enhance the vision transformer with hierarchical level graph reasoning for semantic segmentation task. At last, we further parameterize the detected line landmarks (e.g., intercept-slope form) whereby a novel filtering backend incorporates temporal and multi-view consistency to achieve smooth and stable detection. Moreover, we annotate a large-scale dataset to validate our method. Experimental results show that our framework achieves the enhanced performance compared with several line detection methods and validate the multi-task network's efficiency about the real-time line landmark detection on the Qualcomm 820A platform while meantime keeps superior accuracy, with our deep line landmark detection system. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** DCPT: Darkness Clue-Prompted Tracking in Nighttime UAVs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10491  
**Abstract:** Existing nighttime unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) trackers follow an "Enhance-then-Track" architecture - first using a light enhancer to brighten the nighttime video, then employing a daytime tracker to locate the object. This separate enhancement and tracking fails to build an end-to-end trainable vision system. To address this, we propose a novel architecture called Darkness Clue-Prompted Tracking (DCPT) that achieves robust UAV tracking at night by efficiently learning to generate darkness clue prompts. Without a separate enhancer, DCPT directly encodes anti-dark capabilities into prompts using a darkness clue prompter (DCP). Specifically, DCP iteratively learns emphasizing and undermining projections for darkness clues. It then injects these learned visual prompts into a daytime tracker with fixed parameters across transformer layers. Moreover, a gated feature aggregation mechanism enables adaptive fusion between prompts and between prompts and the base model. Extensive experiments show state-of-the-art performance for DCPT on multiple dark scenario benchmarks. The unified end-to-end learning of enhancement and tracking in DCPT enables a more trainable system. The darkness clue prompting efficiently injects anti-dark knowledge without extra modules. Code and models will be released. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** An Evaluation of GPT-4 on the ETHICS Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10492  
**Abstract:** This report summarizes a short study of the performance of GPT-4 on the ETHICS dataset. The ETHICS dataset consists of five sub-datasets covering different fields of ethics: Justice, Deontology, Virtue Ethics, Utilitarianism, and Commonsense Ethics. The moral judgments were curated so as to have a high degree of agreement with the aim of representing shared human values rather than moral dilemmas. GPT-4's performance is much better than that of previous models and suggests that learning to work with common human values is not the hard problem for AI ethics. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** A Configurable Library for Generating and Manipulating Maze Datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10498  
**Abstract:** Understanding how machine learning models respond to distributional shifts is a key research challenge. Mazes serve as an excellent testbed due to varied generation algorithms offering a nuanced platform to simulate both subtle and pronounced distributional shifts. To enable systematic investigations of model behavior on out-of-distribution data, we present $\texttt{maze-dataset}$, a comprehensive library for generating, processing, and visualizing datasets consisting of maze-solving tasks. With this library, researchers can easily create datasets, having extensive control over the generation algorithm used, the parameters fed to the algorithm of choice, and the filters that generated mazes must satisfy. Furthermore, it supports multiple output formats, including rasterized and text-based, catering to convolutional neural networks and autoregressive transformer models. These formats, along with tools for visualizing and converting between them, ensure versatility and adaptability in research applications. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Steganography for Neural Radiance Fields by Backdooring  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10503  
**Abstract:** The utilization of implicit representation for visual data (such as images, videos, and 3D models) has recently gained significant attention in computer vision research. In this letter, we propose a novel model steganography scheme with implicit neural representation. The message sender leverages Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) and its viewpoint synthesis capabilities by introducing a viewpoint as a key. The NeRF model generates a secret viewpoint image, which serves as a backdoor. Subsequently, we train a message extractor using overfitting to establish a one-to-one mapping between the secret message and the secret viewpoint image. The sender delivers the trained NeRF model and the message extractor to the receiver over the open channel, and the receiver utilizes the key shared by both parties to obtain the rendered image in the secret view from the NeRF model, and then obtains the secret message through the message extractor. The inherent complexity of the viewpoint information prevents attackers from stealing the secret message accurately. Experimental results demonstrate that the message extractor trained in this letter achieves high-capacity steganography with fast performance, achieving a 100\% accuracy in message extraction. Furthermore, the extensive viewpoint key space of NeRF ensures the security of the steganography scheme. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Learning End-to-End Channel Coding with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10505  
**Abstract:** The training of neural encoders via deep learning necessitates a differentiable channel model due to the backpropagation algorithm. This requirement can be sidestepped by approximating either the channel distribution or its gradient through pilot signals in real-world scenarios. The initial approach draws upon the latest advancements in image generation, utilizing generative adversarial networks (GANs) or their enhanced variants to generate channel distributions. In this paper, we address this channel approximation challenge with diffusion models, which have demonstrated high sample quality in image generation. We offer an end-to-end channel coding framework underpinned by diffusion models and propose an efficient training algorithm. Our simulations with various channel models establish that our diffusion models learn the channel distribution accurately, thereby achieving near-optimal end-to-end symbol error rates (SERs). We also note a significant advantage of diffusion models: A robust generalization capability in high signal-to-noise ratio regions, in contrast to GAN variants that suffer from error floor. Furthermore, we examine the trade-off between sample quality and sampling speed, when an accelerated sampling algorithm is deployed, and investigate the effect of the noise scheduling on this trade-off. With an apt choice of noise scheduling, sampling time can be significantly reduced with a minor increase in SER. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Model Leeching: An Extraction Attack Targeting LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10544  
**Abstract:** Model Leeching is a novel extraction attack targeting Large Language Models (LLMs), capable of distilling task-specific knowledge from a target LLM into a reduced parameter model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our attack by extracting task capability from ChatGPT-3.5-Turbo, achieving 73% Exact Match (EM) similarity, and SQuAD EM and F1 accuracy scores of 75% and 87%, respectively for only $50 in API cost. We further demonstrate the feasibility of adversarial attack transferability from an extracted model extracted via Model Leeching to perform ML attack staging against a target LLM, resulting in an 11% increase to attack success rate when applied to ChatGPT-3.5-Turbo. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Towards Generative Modeling of Urban Flow through Knowledge-enhanced  Denoising Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10547  
**Abstract:** Although generative AI has been successful in many areas, its ability to model geospatial data is still underexplored. Urban flow, a typical kind of geospatial data, is critical for a wide range of urban applications. Existing studies mostly focus on predictive modeling of urban flow that predicts the future flow based on historical flow data, which may be unavailable in data-sparse areas or newly planned regions. Some other studies aim to predict OD flow among regions but they fail to model dynamic changes of urban flow over time. In this work, we study a new problem of urban flow generation that generates dynamic urban flow for regions without historical flow data. To capture the effect of multiple factors on urban flow, such as region features and urban environment, we employ diffusion model to generate urban flow for regions under different conditions. We first construct an urban knowledge graph (UKG) to model the urban environment and relationships between regions, based on which we design a knowledge-enhanced spatio-temporal diffusion model (KSTDiff) to generate urban flow for each region. Specifically, to accurately generate urban flow for regions with different flow volumes, we design a novel diffusion process guided by a volume estimator, which is learnable and customized for each region. Moreover, we propose a knowledge-enhanced denoising network to capture the spatio-temporal dependencies of urban flow as well as the impact of urban environment in the denoising process. Extensive experiments on four real-world datasets validate the superiority of our model over state-of-the-art baselines in urban flow generation. Further in-depth studies demonstrate the utility of generated urban flow data and the ability of our model for long-term flow generation and urban flow prediction. Our code is released at: https://github.com/tsinghua-fib-lab/KSTDiff-Urban-flow-generation. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Forgedit: Text Guided Image Editing via Learning and Forgetting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10556  
**Abstract:** Text guided image editing on real images given only the image and the target text prompt as inputs, is a very general and challenging problem, which requires the editing model to reason by itself which part of the image should be edited, to preserve the characteristics of original image, and also to perform complicated non-rigid editing. Previous fine-tuning based solutions are time-consuming and vulnerable to overfitting, limiting their editing capabilities. To tackle these issues, we design a novel text guided image editing method, Forgedit. First, we propose a novel fine-tuning framework which learns to reconstruct the given image in less than one minute by vision language joint learning. Then we introduce vector subtraction and vector projection to explore the proper text embedding for editing. We also find a general property of UNet structures in Diffusion Models and inspired by such a finding, we design forgetting strategies to diminish the fatal overfitting issues and significantly boost the editing abilities of Diffusion Models. Our method, Forgedit, implemented with Stable Diffusion, achieves new state-of-the-art results on the challenging text guided image editing benchmark TEdBench, surpassing the previous SOTA method Imagic with Imagen, in terms of both CLIP score and LPIPS score. Codes are available at https://github.com/witcherofresearch/Forgedit. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** A Hierarchical Neural Framework for Classification and its Explanation  in Large Unstructured Legal Documents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10563  
**Abstract:** Automatic legal judgment prediction and its explanation suffer from the problem of long case documents exceeding tens of thousands of words, in general, and having a non-uniform structure. Predicting judgments from such documents and extracting their explanation becomes a challenging task, more so on documents with no structural annotation. We define this problem as "scarce annotated legal documents" and explore their lack of structural information and their long lengths with a deep learning-based classification framework which we call MESc; "Multi-stage Encoder-based Supervised with-clustering"; for judgment prediction. Specifically, we divide a document into parts to extract their embeddings from the last four layers of a custom fine-tuned Large Language Model, and try to approximate their structure through unsupervised clustering. Which we use in another set of transformer encoder layers to learn the inter-chunk representations. We explore the adaptability of LLMs with multi-billion parameters (GPT-Neo, and GPT-J) to legal texts and their intra-domain(legal) transfer learning capacity. Alongside this, we compare their performance with MESc and the impact of combining embeddings from their last layers. For such hierarchical models, we also propose an explanation extraction algorithm named ORSE; Occlusion sensitivity-based Relevant Sentence Extractor; 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** CFGPT: Chinese Financial Assistant with Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10654  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated great potential in natural language processing tasks within the financial domain. In this work, we present a Chinese Financial Generative Pre-trained Transformer framework, named CFGPT, which includes a dataset~(CFData) for pre-training and supervised fine-tuning, a financial LLM~(CFLLM) to adeptly manage financial texts, and a deployment framework~(CFAPP) designed to navigate real-world financial applications. The CFData comprising both a pre-training dataset and a supervised fine-tuning dataset, where the pre-training dataset collates Chinese financial data and analytics, alongside a smaller subset of general-purpose text with 584M documents and 141B tokens in total, and the supervised fine-tuning dataset is tailored for six distinct financial tasks, embodying various facets of financial analysis and decision-making with 1.5M instruction pairs and 1.5B tokens in total. The CFLLM, which is based on InternLM-7B to balance the model capability and size, is trained on CFData in two stage, continued pre-training and supervised fine-tuning. The CFAPP is centered on large language models (LLMs) and augmented with additional modules to ensure multifaceted functionality in real-world application. Our codes are released at https://github.com/TongjiFinLab/CFGPT. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Locally Stylized Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10684  
**Abstract:** In recent years, there has been increasing interest in applying stylization on 3D scenes from a reference style image, in particular onto neural radiance fields (NeRF). While performing stylization directly on NeRF guarantees appearance consistency over arbitrary novel views, it is a challenging problem to guide the transfer of patterns from the style image onto different parts of the NeRF scene. In this work, we propose a stylization framework for NeRF based on local style transfer. In particular, we use a hash-grid encoding to learn the embedding of the appearance and geometry components, and show that the mapping defined by the hash table allows us to control the stylization to a certain extent. Stylization is then achieved by optimizing the appearance branch while keeping the geometry branch fixed. To support local style transfer, we propose a new loss function that utilizes a segmentation network and bipartite matching to establish region correspondences between the style image and the content images obtained from volume rendering. Our experiments show that our method yields plausible stylization results with novel view synthesis while having flexible controllability via manipulating and customizing the region correspondences. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** MINT: Evaluating LLMs in Multi-turn Interaction with Tools and Language  Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10691  
**Abstract:** To solve complex tasks, large language models (LLMs) often require multiple rounds of interactions with the user, sometimes assisted by external tools. However, current evaluation paradigms often focus solely on benchmark performance with single-turn exchanges, neglecting the intricate interactions among the user, LLMs, and external tools, creating a discrepancy between benchmark evaluation and real-world use cases. We introduce MINT benchmark to evaluate LLMs' ability to solve tasks with multi-turn interactions by (1) using tools and (2) leveraging natural language feedback. To ensure reproducibility, we provide an evaluation framework where LLMs can access tools by executing Python code and receive natural language feedback from the user simulated with GPT-4. We repurpose a diverse set of established datasets and tasks focusing on reasoning, coding, and decision-making and carefully curate them into a compact subset of instances for efficient evaluation. Our analysis of 20 open- and closed-source LLMs offers intriguing findings. (1) LLMs generally benefit from tool interactions and language feedback, with performance gains (absolute, same below) of 1--8% per additional turn with tool use and 2--17% with natural language feedback. (2) Better single-turn performance does not guarantee better multi-turn performance. (3) Surprisingly, on LLMs we evaluated, we found supervised instruction-finetuning (SIFT) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) generally hurt multi-turn capabilities. We hope MINT can help measure progress and incentivize research in improving LLMs' capabilities in multi-turn interactions, especially for open-source communities where multi-turn human evaluation has been less accessible compared to commercial LLMs with a larger user base. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** From "Let's Google" to "Let's ChatGPT": Student and Instructor  Perspectives on the influence of LLMs on Undergraduate Engineering Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10694  
**Abstract:** The rise in popularity of Large Language Models (LLMs) has prompted discussions in academic circles, with students exploring LLM-based tools for coursework inquiries and instructors exploring them for teaching and research. Even though a lot of work is underway to create LLM-based tools tailored for students and instructors, there is a lack of comprehensive user studies that capture the perspectives of students and instructors regarding LLMs. This paper addresses this gap by conducting surveys and interviews within undergraduate engineering universities in India. Using 1306 survey responses among students, 112 student interviews, and 27 instructor interviews around the academic usage of ChatGPT (a popular LLM), this paper offers insights into the current usage patterns, perceived benefits, threats, and challenges, as well as recommendations for enhancing the adoption of LLMs among students and instructors. These insights are further utilized to discuss the practical implications of LLMs in undergraduate engineering education and beyond. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Interpret Vision Transformers as ConvNets with Dynamic Convolutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10713  
**Abstract:** There has been a debate about the superiority between vision Transformers and ConvNets, serving as the backbone of computer vision models. Although they are usually considered as two completely different architectures, in this paper, we interpret vision Transformers as ConvNets with dynamic convolutions, which enables us to characterize existing Transformers and dynamic ConvNets in a unified framework and compare their design choices side by side. In addition, our interpretation can also guide the network design as researchers now can consider vision Transformers from the design space of ConvNets and vice versa. We demonstrate such potential through two specific studies. First, we inspect the role of softmax in vision Transformers as the activation function and find it can be replaced by commonly used ConvNets modules, such as ReLU and Layer Normalization, which results in a faster convergence rate and better performance. Second, following the design of depth-wise convolution, we create a corresponding depth-wise vision Transformer that is more efficient with comparable performance. The potential of the proposed unified interpretation is not limited to the given examples and we hope it can inspire the community and give rise to more advanced network architectures. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Reconstruct-and-Generate Diffusion Model for Detail-Preserving Image  Denoising  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10714  
**Abstract:** Image denoising is a fundamental and challenging task in the field of computer vision. Most supervised denoising methods learn to reconstruct clean images from noisy inputs, which have intrinsic spectral bias and tend to produce over-smoothed and blurry images. Recently, researchers have explored diffusion models to generate high-frequency details in image restoration tasks, but these models do not guarantee that the generated texture aligns with real images, leading to undesirable artifacts. To address the trade-off between visual appeal and fidelity of high-frequency details in denoising tasks, we propose a novel approach called the Reconstruct-and-Generate Diffusion Model (RnG). Our method leverages a reconstructive denoising network to recover the majority of the underlying clean signal, which serves as the initial estimation for subsequent steps to maintain fidelity. Additionally, it employs a diffusion algorithm to generate residual high-frequency details, thereby enhancing visual quality. We further introduce a two-stage training scheme to ensure effective collaboration between the reconstructive and generative modules of RnG. To reduce undesirable texture introduced by the diffusion model, we also propose an adaptive step controller that regulates the number of inverse steps applied by the diffusion model, allowing control over the level of high-frequency details added to each patch as well as saving the inference computational cost. Through our proposed RnG, we achieve a better balance between perception and distortion. We conducted extensive experiments on both synthetic and real denoising datasets, validating the superiority of the proposed approach. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** GPT4AIGChip: Towards Next-Generation AI Accelerator Design Automation  via Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10730  
**Abstract:** The remarkable capabilities and intricate nature of Artificial Intelligence (AI) have dramatically escalated the imperative for specialized AI accelerators. Nonetheless, designing these accelerators for various AI workloads remains both labor- and time-intensive. While existing design exploration and automation tools can partially alleviate the need for extensive human involvement, they still demand substantial hardware expertise, posing a barrier to non-experts and stifling AI accelerator development. Motivated by the astonishing potential of large language models (LLMs) for generating high-quality content in response to human language instructions, we embark on this work to examine the possibility of harnessing LLMs to automate AI accelerator design. Through this endeavor, we develop GPT4AIGChip, a framework intended to democratize AI accelerator design by leveraging human natural languages instead of domain-specific languages. Specifically, we first perform an in-depth investigation into LLMs' limitations and capabilities for AI accelerator design, thus aiding our understanding of our current position and garnering insights into LLM-powered automated AI accelerator design. Furthermore, drawing inspiration from the above insights, we develop a framework called GPT4AIGChip, which features an automated demo-augmented prompt-generation pipeline utilizing in-context learning to guide LLMs towards creating high-quality AI accelerator design. To our knowledge, this work is the first to demonstrate an effective pipeline for LLM-powered automated AI accelerator generation. Accordingly, we anticipate that our insights and framework can serve as a catalyst for innovations in next-generation LLM-powered design automation tools. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Accelerating Diffusion-Based Text-to-Audio Generation with Consistency  Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10740  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models power a vast majority of text-to-audio (TTA) generation methods. Unfortunately, these models suffer from slow inference speed due to iterative queries to the underlying denoising network, thus unsuitable for scenarios with inference time or computational constraints. This work modifies the recently proposed consistency distillation framework to train TTA models that require only a single neural network query. In addition to incorporating classifier-free guidance into the distillation process, we leverage the availability of generated audio during distillation training to fine-tune the consistency TTA model with novel loss functions in the audio space, such as the CLAP score. Our objective and subjective evaluation results on the AudioCaps dataset show that consistency models retain diffusion models' high generation quality and diversity while reducing the number of queries by a factor of 400. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** MAGIC-TBR: Multiview Attention Fusion for Transformer-based Bodily  Behavior Recognition in Group Settings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10765  
**Abstract:** Bodily behavioral language is an important social cue, and its automated analysis helps in enhancing the understanding of artificial intelligence systems. Furthermore, behavioral language cues are essential for active engagement in social agent-based user interactions. Despite the progress made in computer vision for tasks like head and body pose estimation, there is still a need to explore the detection of finer behaviors such as gesturing, grooming, or fumbling. This paper proposes a multiview attention fusion method named MAGIC-TBR that combines features extracted from videos and their corresponding Discrete Cosine Transform coefficients via a transformer-based approach. The experiments are conducted on the BBSI dataset and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed feature fusion with multiview attention. The code is available at: https://github.com/surbhimadan92/MAGIC-TBR 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** FRASIMED: a Clinical French Annotated Resource Produced through  Crosslingual BERT-Based Annotation Projection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10770  
**Abstract:** Natural language processing (NLP) applications such as named entity recognition (NER) for low-resource corpora do not benefit from recent advances in the development of large language models (LLMs) where there is still a need for larger annotated datasets. This research article introduces a methodology for generating translated versions of annotated datasets through crosslingual annotation projection. Leveraging a language agnostic BERT-based approach, it is an efficient solution to increase low-resource corpora with few human efforts and by only using already available open data resources. Quantitative and qualitative evaluations are often lacking when it comes to evaluating the quality and effectiveness of semi-automatic data generation strategies. The evaluation of our crosslingual annotation projection approach showed both effectiveness and high accuracy in the resulting dataset. As a practical application of this methodology, we present the creation of French Annotated Resource with Semantic Information for Medical Entities Detection (FRASIMED), an annotated corpus comprising 2'051 synthetic clinical cases in French. The corpus is now available for researchers and practitioners to develop and refine French natural language processing (NLP) applications in the clinical field (https://zenodo.org/record/8355629), making it the largest open annotated corpus with linked medical concepts in French. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Redefining Qualitative Analysis in the AI Era: Utilizing ChatGPT for  Efficient Thematic Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10771  
**Abstract:** Thematic analysis is a cornerstone of qualitative research, yet it is often marked by labor-intensive procedures. Recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI), especially with large-scale language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, present potential avenues to enhance qualitative data analysis. This research delves into the effectiveness of ChatGPT in refining the thematic analysis process. We conducted semi-structured interviews with 17 participants, inclusive of a 4-participant pilot study, to identify the challenges and reservations concerning the incorporation of ChatGPT in qualitative analysis. In partnership with 13 qualitative analysts, we crafted cueing frameworks to bolster ChatGPT's contribution to thematic analysis. The results indicate that these frameworks not only amplify the quality of thematic analysis but also bridge a significant connection between AI and qualitative research. These insights carry pivotal implications for academics and professionals keen on harnessing AI for qualitative data exploration. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Language as the Medium: Multimodal Video Classification through text  only  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10783  
**Abstract:** Despite an exciting new wave of multimodal machine learning models, current approaches still struggle to interpret the complex contextual relationships between the different modalities present in videos. Going beyond existing methods that emphasize simple activities or objects, we propose a new model-agnostic approach for generating detailed textual descriptions that captures multimodal video information. Our method leverages the extensive knowledge learnt by large language models, such as GPT-3.5 or Llama2, to reason about textual descriptions of the visual and aural modalities, obtained from BLIP-2, Whisper and ImageBind. Without needing additional finetuning of video-text models or datasets, we demonstrate that available LLMs have the ability to use these multimodal textual descriptions as proxies for ``sight'' or ``hearing'' and perform zero-shot multimodal classification of videos in-context. Our evaluations on popular action recognition benchmarks, such as UCF-101 or Kinetics, show these context-rich descriptions can be successfully used in video understanding tasks. This method points towards a promising new research direction in multimodal classification, demonstrating how an interplay between textual, visual and auditory machine learning models can enable more holistic video understanding. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Guide Your Agent with Adaptive Multimodal Rewards  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10790  
**Abstract:** Developing an agent capable of adapting to unseen environments remains a difficult challenge in imitation learning. In this work, we present Adaptive Return-conditioned Policy (ARP), an efficient framework designed to enhance the agent's generalization ability using natural language task descriptions and pre-trained multimodal encoders. Our key idea is to calculate a similarity between visual observations and natural language instructions in the pre-trained multimodal embedding space (such as CLIP) and use it as a reward signal. We then train a return-conditioned policy using expert demonstrations labeled with multimodal rewards. Because the multimodal rewards provide adaptive signals at each timestep, our ARP effectively mitigates the goal misgeneralization. This results in superior generalization performances even when faced with unseen text instructions, compared to existing text-conditioned policies. To improve the quality of rewards, we also introduce a fine-tuning method for pre-trained multimodal encoders, further enhancing the performance. Video demonstrations and source code are available on the project website: https://sites.google.com/view/2023arp. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** AI Foundation Models for Weather and Climate: Applications, Design, and  Implementation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10808  
**Abstract:** Machine learning and deep learning methods have been widely explored in understanding the chaotic behavior of the atmosphere and furthering weather forecasting. There has been increasing interest from technology companies, government institutions, and meteorological agencies in building digital twins of the Earth. Recent approaches using transformers, physics-informed machine learning, and graph neural networks have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on relatively narrow spatiotemporal scales and specific tasks. With the recent success of generative artificial intelligence (AI) using pre-trained transformers for language modeling and vision with prompt engineering and fine-tuning, we are now moving towards generalizable AI. In particular, we are witnessing the rise of AI foundation models that can perform competitively on multiple domain-specific downstream tasks. Despite this progress, we are still in the nascent stages of a generalizable AI model for global Earth system models, regional climate models, and mesoscale weather models. Here, we review current state-of-the-art AI approaches, primarily from transformer and operator learning literature in the context of meteorology. We provide our perspective on criteria for success towards a family of foundation models for nowcasting and forecasting weather and climate predictions. We also discuss how such models can perform competitively on downstream tasks such as downscaling (super-resolution), identifying conditions conducive to the occurrence of wildfires, and predicting consequential meteorological phenomena across various spatiotemporal scales such as hurricanes and atmospheric rivers. In particular, we examine current AI methodologies and contend they have matured enough to design and implement a weather foundation model. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** PGDiff: Guiding Diffusion Models for Versatile Face Restoration via  Partial Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10810  
**Abstract:** Exploiting pre-trained diffusion models for restoration has recently become a favored alternative to the traditional task-specific training approach. Previous works have achieved noteworthy success by limiting the solution space using explicit degradation models. However, these methods often fall short when faced with complex degradations as they generally cannot be precisely modeled. In this paper, we propose PGDiff by introducing partial guidance, a fresh perspective that is more adaptable to real-world degradations compared to existing works. Rather than specifically defining the degradation process, our approach models the desired properties, such as image structure and color statistics of high-quality images, and applies this guidance during the reverse diffusion process. These properties are readily available and make no assumptions about the degradation process. When combined with a diffusion prior, this partial guidance can deliver appealing results across a range of restoration tasks. Additionally, PGDiff can be extended to handle composite tasks by consolidating multiple high-quality image properties, achieved by integrating the guidance from respective tasks. Experimental results demonstrate that our method not only outperforms existing diffusion-prior-based approaches but also competes favorably with task-specific models. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** SlimPajama-DC: Understanding Data Combinations for LLM Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10818  
**Abstract:** This paper aims to understand the impacts of various data combinations (e.g., web text, wikipedia, github, books) on the training of large language models using SlimPajama. SlimPajama is a rigorously deduplicated, multi-source dataset, which has been refined and further deduplicated to 627B tokens from the extensive 1.2T tokens RedPajama dataset contributed by Together. We've termed our research as SlimPajama-DC, an empirical analysis designed to uncover fundamental characteristics and best practices associated with employing SlimPajama in the training of large language models. During our research with SlimPajama, two pivotal observations emerged: (1) Global deduplication vs. local deduplication. We analyze and discuss how global (across different sources of datasets) and local (within the single source of dataset) deduplications affect the performance of trained models. (2) Proportions of high-quality/highly-deduplicated multi-source datasets in the combination. To study this, we construct six configurations of SlimPajama dataset and train individual ones using 1.3B Cerebras-GPT model with Alibi and SwiGLU. Our best configuration outperforms the 1.3B model trained on RedPajama using the same number of training tokens by a significant margin. All our 1.3B models are trained on Cerebras 16$\times$ CS-2 cluster with a total of 80 PFLOP/s in bf16 mixed precision. We further extend our discoveries (such as increasing data diversity is crucial after global deduplication) on a 7B model with large batch-size training. Our models and the separate SlimPajama-DC datasets are available at: https://huggingface.co/MBZUAI-LLM and https://huggingface.co/datasets/cerebras/SlimPajama-627B. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Exploration and Comparison of Deep Learning Architectures to Predict  Brain Response to Realistic Pictures  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09983  
**Abstract:** We present an exploration of machine learning architectures for predicting brain responses to realistic images on occasion of the Algonauts Challenge 2023. Our research involved extensive experimentation with various pretrained models. Initially, we employed simpler models to predict brain activity but gradually introduced more complex architectures utilizing available data and embeddings generated by large-scale pre-trained models. We encountered typical difficulties related to machine learning problems, e.g. regularization and overfitting, as well as issues specific to the challenge, such as difficulty in combining multiple input encodings, as well as the high dimensionality, unclear structure, and noisy nature of the output. To overcome these issues we tested single edge 3D position-based, multi-region of interest (ROI) and hemisphere predictor models, but we found that employing multiple simple models, each dedicated to a ROI in each hemisphere of the brain of each subject, yielded the best results - a single fully connected linear layer with image embeddings generated by CLIP as input. While we surpassed the challenge baseline, our results fell short of establishing a robust association with the data. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Molecular Conformation Generation via Shifting Scores  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09985  
**Abstract:** Molecular conformation generation, a critical aspect of computational chemistry, involves producing the three-dimensional conformer geometry for a given molecule. Generating molecular conformation via diffusion requires learning to reverse a noising process. Diffusion on inter-atomic distances instead of conformation preserves SE(3)-equivalence and shows superior performance compared to alternative techniques, whereas related generative modelings are predominantly based upon heuristical assumptions. In response to this, we propose a novel molecular conformation generation approach driven by the observation that the disintegration of a molecule can be viewed as casting increasing force fields to its composing atoms, such that the distribution of the change of inter-atomic distance shifts from Gaussian to Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution. The corresponding generative modeling ensures a feasible inter-atomic distance geometry and exhibits time reversibility. Experimental results on molecular datasets demonstrate the advantages of the proposed shifting distribution compared to the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Improving Speech Recognition for African American English With Audio  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.09996  
**Abstract:** Automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems have been shown to have large quality disparities between the language varieties they are intended or expected to recognize. One way to mitigate this is to train or fine-tune models with more representative datasets. But this approach can be hindered by limited in-domain data for training and evaluation. We propose a new way to improve the robustness of a US English short-form speech recognizer using a small amount of out-of-domain (long-form) African American English (AAE) data. We use CORAAL, YouTube and Mozilla Common Voice to train an audio classifier to approximately output whether an utterance is AAE or some other variety including Mainstream American English (MAE). By combining the classifier output with coarse geographic information, we can select a subset of utterances from a large corpus of untranscribed short-form queries for semi-supervised learning at scale. Fine-tuning on this data results in a 38.5% relative word error rate disparity reduction between AAE and MAE without reducing MAE quality. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** HTEC: Human Transcription Error Correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10089  
**Abstract:** High-quality human transcription is essential for training and improving Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) models. Recent study~\cite{libricrowd} has found that every 1% worse transcription Word Error Rate (WER) increases approximately 2% ASR WER by using the transcriptions to train ASR models. Transcription errors are inevitable for even highly-trained annotators. However, few studies have explored human transcription correction. Error correction methods for other problems, such as ASR error correction and grammatical error correction, do not perform sufficiently for this problem. Therefore, we propose HTEC for Human Transcription Error Correction. HTEC consists of two stages: Trans-Checker, an error detection model that predicts and masks erroneous words, and Trans-Filler, a sequence-to-sequence generative model that fills masked positions. We propose a holistic list of correction operations, including four novel operations handling deletion errors. We further propose a variant of embeddings that incorporates phoneme information into the input of the transformer. HTEC outperforms other methods by a large margin and surpasses human annotators by 2.2% to 4.5% in WER. Finally, we deployed HTEC to assist human annotators and showed HTEC is particularly effective as a co-pilot, which improves transcription quality by 15.1% without sacrificing transcription velocity. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** RadOnc-GPT: A Large Language Model for Radiation Oncology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10160  
**Abstract:** This paper presents RadOnc-GPT, a large language model specialized for radiation oncology through advanced tuning methods. RadOnc-GPT was finetuned on a large dataset of radiation oncology patient records and clinical notes from the Mayo Clinic. The model employs instruction tuning on three key tasks - generating radiotherapy treatment regimens, determining optimal radiation modalities, and providing diagnostic descriptions/ICD codes based on patient diagnostic details. Evaluations conducted by having radiation oncologists compare RadOnc-GPT impressions to general large language model impressions showed that RadOnc-GPT generated outputs with significantly improved clarity, specificity, and clinical relevance. The study demonstrated the potential of using large language models fine-tuned using domain-specific knowledge like RadOnc-GPT to achieve transformational capabilities in highly specialized healthcare fields such as radiation oncology. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Learning Dynamic MRI Reconstruction with Convolutional Network Assisted  Reconstruction Swin Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10227  
**Abstract:** Dynamic magnetic resonance imaging (DMRI) is an effective imaging tool for diagnosis tasks that require motion tracking of a certain anatomy. To speed up DMRI acquisition, k-space measurements are commonly undersampled along spatial or spatial-temporal domains. The difficulty of recovering useful information increases with increasing undersampling ratios. Compress sensing was invented for this purpose and has become the most popular method until deep learning (DL) based DMRI reconstruction methods emerged in the past decade. Nevertheless, existing DL networks are still limited in long-range sequential dependency understanding and computational efficiency and are not fully automated. Considering the success of Transformers positional embedding and "swin window" self-attention mechanism in the vision community, especially natural video understanding, we hereby propose a novel architecture named Reconstruction Swin Transformer (RST) for 4D MRI. RST inherits the backbone design of the Video Swin Transformer with a novel reconstruction head introduced to restore pixel-wise intensity. A convolution network called SADXNet is used for rapid initialization of 2D MR frames before RST learning to effectively reduce the model complexity, GPU hardware demand, and training time. Experimental results in the cardiac 4D MR dataset further substantiate the superiority of RST, achieving the lowest RMSE of 0.0286 +/- 0.0199 and 1 - SSIM of 0.0872 +/- 0.0783 on 9 times accelerated validation sequences. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Diffusion Methods for Generating Transition Paths  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10276  
**Abstract:** In this work, we seek to simulate rare transitions between metastable states using score-based generative models. An efficient method for generating high-quality transition paths is valuable for the study of molecular systems since data is often difficult to obtain. We develop two novel methods for path generation in this paper: a chain-based approach and a midpoint-based approach. The first biases the original dynamics to facilitate transitions, while the second mirrors splitting techniques and breaks down the original transition into smaller transitions. Numerical results of generated transition paths for the M\"uller potential and for Alanine dipeptide demonstrate the effectiveness of these approaches in both the data-rich and data-scarce regimes. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** $$-convergence of Nonlocal Dirichlet Energies With Penalty  Formulations of Dirichlet Boundary Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10352  
**Abstract:** We study nonlocal Dirichlet energies associated with a class of nonlocal diffusion models on a bounded domain subject to the conventional local Dirichlet boundary condition. The Dirichlet boundary condition is imposed through a specifically designed penalty formulation. We prove that the nonlocal Dirichlet energies with the penalty terms converge to local Dirichlet energies with Dirichlet boundary conditions in the sense of $\varGamma$-convergence. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** FoleyGen: Visually-Guided Audio Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10537  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in audio generation have been spurred by the evolution of large-scale deep learning models and expansive datasets. However, the task of video-to-audio (V2A) generation continues to be a challenge, principally because of the intricate relationship between the high-dimensional visual and auditory data, and the challenges associated with temporal synchronization. In this study, we introduce FoleyGen, an open-domain V2A generation system built on a language modeling paradigm. FoleyGen leverages an off-the-shelf neural audio codec for bidirectional conversion between waveforms and discrete tokens. The generation of audio tokens is facilitated by a single Transformer model, which is conditioned on visual features extracted from a visual encoder. A prevalent problem in V2A generation is the misalignment of generated audio with the visible actions in the video. To address this, we explore three novel visual attention mechanisms. We further undertake an exhaustive evaluation of multiple visual encoders, each pretrained on either single-modal or multi-modal tasks. The experimental results on VGGSound dataset show that our proposed FoleyGen outperforms previous systems across all objective metrics and human evaluations. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Unbiased Parameter Estimation for Partially Observed Diffusions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10589  
**Abstract:** In this article we consider the estimation of static parameters for partially observed diffusion process with discrete-time observations over a fixed time interval. In particular, we assume that one must time-discretize the partially observed diffusion process and work with the model with bias and consider maximizing the resulting log-likelihood. Using a novel double randomization scheme, based upon Markovian stochastic approximation we develop a new method to unbiasedly estimate the static parameters, that is, to obtain the maximum likelihood estimator with no time discretization bias. Under assumptions we prove that our estimator is unbiased and investigate the method in several numerical examples, showing that it can empirically out-perform existing unbiased methodology. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Self-Supervised Super-Resolution Approach for Isotropic Reconstruction  of 3D Electron Microscopy Images from Anisotropic Acquisition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10646  
**Abstract:** Three-dimensional electron microscopy (3DEM) is an essential technique to investigate volumetric tissue ultra-structure. Due to technical limitations and high imaging costs, samples are often imaged anisotropically, where resolution in the axial direction ($z$) is lower than in the lateral directions $(x,y)$. This anisotropy 3DEM can hamper subsequent analysis and visualization tasks. To overcome this limitation, we propose a novel deep-learning (DL)-based self-supervised super-resolution approach that computationally reconstructs isotropic 3DEM from the anisotropic acquisition. The proposed DL-based framework is built upon the U-shape architecture incorporating vision-transformer (ViT) blocks, enabling high-capability learning of local and global multi-scale image dependencies. To train the tailored network, we employ a self-supervised approach. Specifically, we generate pairs of anisotropic and isotropic training datasets from the given anisotropic 3DEM data. By feeding the given anisotropic 3DEM dataset in the trained network through our proposed framework, the isotropic 3DEM is obtained. Importantly, this isotropic reconstruction approach relies solely on the given anisotropic 3DEM dataset and does not require pairs of co-registered anisotropic and isotropic 3DEM training datasets. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we conducted experiments using three 3DEM datasets acquired from brain. The experimental results demonstrated that our proposed framework could successfully reconstruct isotropic 3DEM from the anisotropic acquisition. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Context-Aware Neural Video Compression on Solar Dynamics Observatory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10784  
**Abstract:** NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) mission collects large data volumes of the Sun's daily activity. Data compression is crucial for space missions to reduce data storage and video bandwidth requirements by eliminating redundancies in the data. In this paper, we present a novel neural Transformer-based video compression approach specifically designed for the SDO images. Our primary objective is to efficiently exploit the temporal and spatial redundancies inherent in solar images to obtain a high compression ratio. Our proposed architecture benefits from a novel Transformer block called Fused Local-aware Window (FLaWin), which incorporates window-based self-attention modules and an efficient fused local-aware feed-forward (FLaFF) network. This architectural design allows us to simultaneously capture short-range and long-range information while facilitating the extraction of rich and diverse contextual representations. Moreover, this design choice results in reduced computational complexity. Experimental results demonstrate the significant contribution of the FLaWin Transformer block to the compression performance, outperforming conventional hand-engineered video codecs such as H.264 and H.265 in terms of rate-distortion trade-off. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Multi-spectral Entropy Constrained Neural Compression of Solar Imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10791  
**Abstract:** Missions studying the dynamic behaviour of the Sun are defined to capture multi-spectral images of the sun and transmit them to the ground station in a daily basis. To make transmission efficient and feasible, image compression systems need to be exploited. Recently successful end-to-end optimized neural network-based image compression systems have shown great potential to be used in an ad-hoc manner. In this work we have proposed a transformer-based multi-spectral neural image compressor to efficiently capture redundancies both intra/inter-wavelength. To unleash the locality of window-based self attention mechanism, we propose an inter-window aggregated token multi head self attention. Additionally to make the neural compressor autoencoder shift invariant, a randomly shifted window attention mechanism is used which makes the transformer blocks insensitive to translations in their input domain. We demonstrate that the proposed approach not only outperforms the conventional compression algorithms but also it is able to better decorrelates images along the multiple wavelengths compared to single spectral compression. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Multi-Context Dual Hyper-Prior Neural Image Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10799  
**Abstract:** Transform and entropy models are the two core components in deep image compression neural networks. Most existing learning-based image compression methods utilize convolutional-based transform, which lacks the ability to model long-range dependencies, primarily due to the limited receptive field of the convolution operation. To address this limitation, we propose a Transformer-based nonlinear transform. This transform has the remarkable ability to efficiently capture both local and global information from the input image, leading to a more decorrelated latent representation. In addition, we introduce a novel entropy model that incorporates two different hyperpriors to model cross-channel and spatial dependencies of the latent representation. To further improve the entropy model, we add a global context that leverages distant relationships to predict the current latent more accurately. This global context employs a causal attention mechanism to extract long-range information in a content-dependent manner. Our experiments show that our proposed framework performs better than the state-of-the-art methods in terms of rate-distortion performance. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Assessing the capacity of a denoising diffusion probabilistic model to  reproduce spatial context  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10817  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as a popular family of deep generative models (DGMs). In the literature, it has been claimed that one class of diffusion models -- denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) -- demonstrate superior image synthesis performance as compared to generative adversarial networks (GANs). To date, these claims have been evaluated using either ensemble-based methods designed for natural images, or conventional measures of image quality such as structural similarity. However, there remains an important need to understand the extent to which DDPMs can reliably learn medical imaging domain-relevant information, which is referred to as `spatial context' in this work. To address this, a systematic assessment of the ability of DDPMs to learn spatial context relevant to medical imaging applications is reported for the first time. A key aspect of the studies is the use of stochastic context models (SCMs) to produce training data. In this way, the ability of the DDPMs to reliably reproduce spatial context can be quantitatively assessed by use of post-hoc image analyses. Error-rates in DDPM-generated ensembles are reported, and compared to those corresponding to a modern GAN. The studies reveal new and important insights regarding the capacity of DDPMs to learn spatial context. Notably, the results demonstrate that DDPMs hold significant capacity for generating contextually correct images that are `interpolated' between training samples, which may benefit data-augmentation tasks in ways that GANs cannot. 

