**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Language-Conditioned Affordance-Pose Detection in 3D Point Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10911  
**Abstract:** Affordance detection and pose estimation are of great importance in many robotic applications. Their combination helps the robot gain an enhanced manipulation capability, in which the generated pose can facilitate the corresponding affordance task. Previous methods for affodance-pose joint learning are limited to a predefined set of affordances, thus limiting the adaptability of robots in real-world environments. In this paper, we propose a new method for language-conditioned affordance-pose joint learning in 3D point clouds. Given a 3D point cloud object, our method detects the affordance region and generates appropriate 6-DoF poses for any unconstrained affordance label. Our method consists of an open-vocabulary affordance detection branch and a language-guided diffusion model that generates 6-DoF poses based on the affordance text. We also introduce a new high-quality dataset for the task of language-driven affordance-pose joint learning. Intensive experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method works effectively on a wide range of open-vocabulary affordances and outperforms other baselines by a large margin. In addition, we illustrate the usefulness of our method in real-world robotic applications. Our code and dataset are publicly available at https://3DAPNet.github.io 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Specializing Small Language Models towards Complex Style Transfer via  Latent Attribute Pre-Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10929  
**Abstract:** In this work, we introduce the concept of complex text style transfer tasks, and constructed complex text datasets based on two widely applicable scenarios. Our dataset is the first large-scale data set of its kind, with 700 rephrased sentences and 1,000 sentences from the game Genshin Impact. While large language models (LLM) have shown promise in complex text style transfer, they have drawbacks such as data privacy concerns, network instability, and high deployment costs. To address these issues, we explore the effectiveness of small models (less than T5-3B) with implicit style pre-training through contrastive learning. We also propose a method for automated evaluation of text generation quality based on alignment with human evaluations using ChatGPT. Finally, we compare our approach with existing methods and show that our model achieves state-of-art performances of few-shot text style transfer models. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** A Family of Pretrained Transformer Language Models for Russian  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10931  
**Abstract:** Nowadays, Transformer language models (LMs) represent a fundamental component of the NLP research methodologies and applications. However, the development of such models specifically for the Russian language has received little attention. This paper presents a collection of 13 Russian Transformer LMs based on the encoder (ruBERT, ruRoBERTa, ruELECTRA), decoder (ruGPT-3), and encoder-decoder (ruT5, FRED-T5) models in multiple sizes. Access to these models is readily available via the HuggingFace platform. We provide a report of the model architecture design and pretraining, and the results of evaluating their generalization abilities on Russian natural language understanding and generation datasets and benchmarks. By pretraining and releasing these specialized Transformer LMs, we hope to broaden the scope of the NLP research directions and enable the development of industrial solutions for the Russian language. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** How Do Analysts Understand and Verify AI-Assisted Data Analyses?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10947  
**Abstract:** Data analysis is challenging as it requires synthesizing domain knowledge, statistical expertise, and programming skills. Assistants powered by large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, can assist analysts by translating natural language instructions into code. However, AI-assistant responses and analysis code can be misaligned with the analyst's intent or be seemingly correct but lead to incorrect conclusions Therefore, validating AI assistance is crucial and challenging. Here, we explore how analysts across a range of backgrounds and expertise understand and verify the correctness of AI-generated analyses. We develop a design probe that allows analysts to pursue diverse verification workflows using natural language explanations, code, visualizations, inspecting data tables, and performing common data operations. Through a qualitative user study (n=22) using this probe, we uncover common patterns of verification workflows influenced by analysts' programming, analysis, and AI backgrounds. Additionally, we highlight open challenges and opportunities for improving future AI analysis assistant experiences. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Is GPT4 a Good Trader?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10982  
**Abstract:** Recently, large language models (LLMs), particularly GPT-4, have demonstrated significant capabilities in various planning and reasoning tasks \cite{cheng2023gpt4,bubeck2023sparks}. Motivated by these advancements, there has been a surge of interest among researchers to harness the capabilities of GPT-4 for the automated design of quantitative factors that do not overlap with existing factor libraries, with an aspiration to achieve alpha returns \cite{webpagequant}. In contrast to these work, this study aims to examine the fidelity of GPT-4's comprehension of classic trading theories and its proficiency in applying its code interpreter abilities to real-world trading data analysis. Such an exploration is instrumental in discerning whether the underlying logic GPT-4 employs for trading is intrinsically reliable. Furthermore, given the acknowledged interpretative latitude inherent in most trading theories, we seek to distill more precise methodologies of deploying these theories from GPT-4's analytical process, potentially offering invaluable insights to human traders. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Spiking NeRF: Making Bio-inspired Neural Networks See through the Real  World  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10987  
**Abstract:** Spiking neuron networks (SNNs) have been thriving on numerous tasks to leverage their promising energy efficiency and exploit their potentialities as biologically plausible intelligence. Meanwhile, the Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) render high-quality 3D scenes with massive energy consumption, and few works delve into the energy-saving solution with a bio-inspired approach. In this paper, we propose spiking NeRF (SpikingNeRF), which aligns the radiance ray with the temporal dimension of SNN, to naturally accommodate the SNN to the reconstruction of Radiance Fields. Thus, the computation turns into a spike-based, multiplication-free manner, reducing the energy consumption. In SpikingNeRF, each sampled point on the ray is matched onto a particular time step, and represented in a hybrid manner where the voxel grids are maintained as well. Based on the voxel grids, sampled points are determined whether to be masked for better training and inference. However, this operation also incurs irregular temporal length. We propose the temporal condensing-and-padding (TCP) strategy to tackle the masked samples to maintain regular temporal length, i.e., regular tensors, for hardware-friendly computation. Extensive experiments on a variety of datasets demonstrate that our method reduces the $76.74\%$ energy consumption on average and obtains comparable synthesis quality with the ANN baseline. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** COSE: A Consistency-Sensitivity Metric for Saliency on Image  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10989  
**Abstract:** We present a set of metrics that utilize vision priors to effectively assess the performance of saliency methods on image classification tasks. To understand behavior in deep learning models, many methods provide visual saliency maps emphasizing image regions that most contribute to a model prediction. However, there is limited work on analyzing the reliability of saliency methods in explaining model decisions. We propose the metric COnsistency-SEnsitivity (COSE) that quantifies the equivariant and invariant properties of visual model explanations using simple data augmentations. Through our metrics, we show that although saliency methods are thought to be architecture-independent, most methods could better explain transformer-based models over convolutional-based models. In addition, GradCAM was found to outperform other methods in terms of COSE but was shown to have limitations such as lack of variability for fine-grained datasets. The duality between consistency and sensitivity allow the analysis of saliency methods from different angles. Ultimately, we find that it is important to balance these two metrics for a saliency map to faithfully show model behavior. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** CaveSeg: Deep Semantic Segmentation and Scene Parsing for Autonomous  Underwater Cave Exploration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11038  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present CaveSeg - the first visual learning pipeline for semantic segmentation and scene parsing for AUV navigation inside underwater caves. We address the problem of scarce annotated training data by preparing a comprehensive dataset for semantic segmentation of underwater cave scenes. It contains pixel annotations for important navigation markers (e.g. caveline, arrows), obstacles (e.g. ground plain and overhead layers), scuba divers, and open areas for servoing. Through comprehensive benchmark analyses on cave systems in USA, Mexico, and Spain locations, we demonstrate that robust deep visual models can be developed based on CaveSeg for fast semantic scene parsing of underwater cave environments. In particular, we formulate a novel transformer-based model that is computationally light and offers near real-time execution in addition to achieving state-of-the-art performance. Finally, we explore the design choices and implications of semantic segmentation for visual servoing by AUVs inside underwater caves. The proposed model and benchmark dataset open up promising opportunities for future research in autonomous underwater cave exploration and mapping. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Making Small Language Models Better Multi-task Learners with  Mixture-of-Task-Adapters  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11042  
**Abstract:** Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved amazing zero-shot learning performance over a variety of Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks, especially for text generative tasks. Yet, the large size of LLMs often leads to the high computational cost of model training and online deployment. In our work, we present ALTER, a system that effectively builds the multi-tAsk Learners with mixTure-of-task-adaptERs upon small language models (with <1B parameters) to address multiple NLP tasks simultaneously, capturing the commonalities and differences between tasks, in order to support domain-specific applications. Specifically, in ALTER, we propose the Mixture-of-Task-Adapters (MTA) module as an extension to the transformer architecture for the underlying model to capture the intra-task and inter-task knowledge. A two-stage training method is further proposed to optimize the collaboration between adapters at a small computational cost. Experimental results over a mixture of NLP tasks show that our proposed MTA architecture and the two-stage training method achieve good performance. Based on ALTER, we have also produced MTA-equipped language models for various domains. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Score Mismatching for Generative Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11043  
**Abstract:** We propose a new score-based model with one-step sampling. Previously, score-based models were burdened with heavy computations due to iterative sampling. For substituting the iterative process, we train a standalone generator to compress all the time steps with the gradient backpropagated from the score network. In order to produce meaningful gradients for the generator, the score network is trained to simultaneously match the real data distribution and mismatch the fake data distribution. This model has the following advantages: 1) For sampling, it generates a fake image with only one step forward. 2) For training, it only needs 10 diffusion steps.3) Compared with consistency model, it is free of the ill-posed problem caused by consistency loss. On the popular CIFAR-10 dataset, our model outperforms Consistency Model and Denoising Score Matching, which demonstrates the potential of the framework. We further provide more examples on the MINIST and LSUN datasets. The code is available on GitHub. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Heterogeneous Entity Matching with Complex Attribute Associations using  BERT and Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11046  
**Abstract:** Across various domains, data from different sources such as Baidu Baike and Wikipedia often manifest in distinct forms. Current entity matching methodologies predominantly focus on homogeneous data, characterized by attributes that share the same structure and concise attribute values. However, this orientation poses challenges in handling data with diverse formats. Moreover, prevailing approaches aggregate the similarity of attribute values between corresponding attributes to ascertain entity similarity. Yet, they often overlook the intricate interrelationships between attributes, where one attribute may have multiple associations. The simplistic approach of pairwise attribute comparison fails to harness the wealth of information encapsulated within entities.To address these challenges, we introduce a novel entity matching model, dubbed Entity Matching Model for Capturing Complex Attribute Relationships(EMM-CCAR),built upon pre-trained models. Specifically, this model transforms the matching task into a sequence matching problem to mitigate the impact of varying data formats. Moreover, by introducing attention mechanisms, it identifies complex relationships between attributes, emphasizing the degree of matching among multiple attributes rather than one-to-one correspondences. Through the integration of the EMM-CCAR model, we adeptly surmount the challenges posed by data heterogeneity and intricate attribute interdependencies. In comparison with the prevalent DER-SSM and Ditto approaches, our model achieves improvements of approximately 4% and 1% in F1 scores, respectively. This furnishes a robust solution for addressing the intricacies of attribute complexity in entity matching. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Design of Chain-of-Thought in Math Problem Solving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11054  
**Abstract:** Chain-of-Thought (CoT) plays a crucial role in reasoning for math problem solving. We conduct a comprehensive examination of methods for designing CoT, comparing conventional natural language CoT with various program CoTs, including the self-describing program, the comment-describing program, and the non-describing program. Furthermore, we investigate the impact of programming language on program CoTs, comparing Python and Wolfram Language. Through extensive experiments on GSM8K, MATHQA, and SVAMP, we find that program CoTs often have superior effectiveness in math problem solving. Notably, the best performing combination with 30B parameters beats GPT-3.5-turbo by a significant margin. The results show that self-describing program offers greater diversity and thus can generally achieve higher performance. We also find that Python is a better choice of language than Wolfram for program CoTs. The experimental results provide a valuable guideline for future CoT designs that take into account both programming language and coding style for further advancements. Our datasets and code are publicly available. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Forgery-aware Adaptive Vision Transformer for Face Forgery Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11092  
**Abstract:** With the advancement in face manipulation technologies, the importance of face forgery detection in protecting authentication integrity becomes increasingly evident. Previous Vision Transformer (ViT)-based detectors have demonstrated subpar performance in cross-database evaluations, primarily because fully fine-tuning with limited Deepfake data often leads to forgetting pre-trained knowledge and over-fitting to data-specific ones. To circumvent these issues, we propose a novel Forgery-aware Adaptive Vision Transformer (FA-ViT). In FA-ViT, the vanilla ViT's parameters are frozen to preserve its pre-trained knowledge, while two specially designed components, the Local-aware Forgery Injector (LFI) and the Global-aware Forgery Adaptor (GFA), are employed to adapt forgery-related knowledge. our proposed FA-ViT effectively combines these two different types of knowledge to form the general forgery features for detecting Deepfakes. Specifically, LFI captures local discriminative information and incorporates these information into ViT via Neighborhood-Preserving Cross Attention (NPCA). Simultaneously, GFA learns adaptive knowledge in the self-attention layer, bridging the gap between the two different domain. Furthermore, we design a novel Single Domain Pairwise Learning (SDPL) to facilitate fine-grained information learning in FA-ViT. The extensive experiments demonstrate that our FA-ViT achieves state-of-the-art performance in cross-dataset evaluation and cross-manipulation scenarios, and improves the robustness against unseen perturbations. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** AttentionMix: Data augmentation method that relies on BERT attention  mechanism  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11104  
**Abstract:** The Mixup method has proven to be a powerful data augmentation technique in Computer Vision, with many successors that perform image mixing in a guided manner. One of the interesting research directions is transferring the underlying Mixup idea to other domains, e.g. Natural Language Processing (NLP). Even though there already exist several methods that apply Mixup to textual data, there is still room for new, improved approaches. In this work, we introduce AttentionMix, a novel mixing method that relies on attention-based information. While the paper focuses on the BERT attention mechanism, the proposed approach can be applied to generally any attention-based model. AttentionMix is evaluated on 3 standard sentiment classification datasets and in all three cases outperforms two benchmark approaches that utilize Mixup mechanism, as well as the vanilla BERT method. The results confirm that the attention-based information can be effectively used for data augmentation in the NLP domain. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** PRAT: PRofiling Adversarial aTtacks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11111  
**Abstract:** Intrinsic susceptibility of deep learning to adversarial examples has led to a plethora of attack techniques with a broad common objective of fooling deep models. However, we find slight compositional differences between the algorithms achieving this objective. These differences leave traces that provide important clues for attacker profiling in real-life scenarios. Inspired by this, we introduce a novel problem of PRofiling Adversarial aTtacks (PRAT). Given an adversarial example, the objective of PRAT is to identify the attack used to generate it. Under this perspective, we can systematically group existing attacks into different families, leading to the sub-problem of attack family identification, which we also study. To enable PRAT analysis, we introduce a large Adversarial Identification Dataset (AID), comprising over 180k adversarial samples generated with 13 popular attacks for image specific/agnostic white/black box setups. We use AID to devise a novel framework for the PRAT objective. Our framework utilizes a Transformer based Global-LOcal Feature (GLOF) module to extract an approximate signature of the adversarial attack, which in turn is used for the identification of the attack. Using AID and our framework, we provide multiple interesting benchmark results for the PRAT problem. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Vehicle-to-Grid and ancillary services:a profitability analysis under  uncertainty  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11118  
**Abstract:** The rapid and massive diffusion of electric vehicles poses new challenges to the electric system, which must be able to supply these new loads, but at the same time opens up new opportunities thanks to the possible provision of ancillary services. Indeed, in the so-called Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G) set-up, the charging power can be modulated throughout the day so that a fleet of vehicles can absorb an excess of power from the grid or provide extra power during a shortage.To this end, many works in the literature focus on the optimization of each vehicle daily charging profiles to offer the requested ancillary services while guaranteeing a charged battery for each vehicle at the end of the day. However, the size of the economic benefits related to the provision of ancillary services varies significantly with the modeling approaches, different assumptions, and considered scenarios. In this paper we propose a profitability analysis with reference to a recently proposed framework for V2G optimal operation in presence of uncertainty. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions for profitability in a simplified case and we show via simulation that they also hold for the general case. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** PSDiff: Diffusion Model for Person Search with Iterative and  Collaborative Refinement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11125  
**Abstract:** Dominant Person Search methods aim to localize and recognize query persons in a unified network, which jointly optimizes two sub-tasks, \ie, detection and Re-IDentification (ReID). Despite significant progress, two major challenges remain: 1) Detection-prior modules in previous methods are suboptimal for the ReID task. 2) The collaboration between two sub-tasks is ignored. To alleviate these issues, we present a novel Person Search framework based on the Diffusion model, PSDiff. PSDiff formulates the person search as a dual denoising process from noisy boxes and ReID embeddings to ground truths. Unlike existing methods that follow the Detection-to-ReID paradigm, our denoising paradigm eliminates detection-prior modules to avoid the local-optimum of the ReID task. Following the new paradigm, we further design a new Collaborative Denoising Layer (CDL) to optimize detection and ReID sub-tasks in an iterative and collaborative way, which makes two sub-tasks mutually beneficial. Extensive experiments on the standard benchmarks show that PSDiff achieves state-of-the-art performance with fewer parameters and elastic computing overhead. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Contrastive Pseudo Learning for Open-World DeepFake Attribution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11132  
**Abstract:** The challenge in sourcing attribution for forgery faces has gained widespread attention due to the rapid development of generative techniques. While many recent works have taken essential steps on GAN-generated faces, more threatening attacks related to identity swapping or expression transferring are still overlooked. And the forgery traces hidden in unknown attacks from the open-world unlabeled faces still remain under-explored. To push the related frontier research, we introduce a new benchmark called Open-World DeepFake Attribution (OW-DFA), which aims to evaluate attribution performance against various types of fake faces under open-world scenarios. Meanwhile, we propose a novel framework named Contrastive Pseudo Learning (CPL) for the OW-DFA task through 1) introducing a Global-Local Voting module to guide the feature alignment of forged faces with different manipulated regions, 2) designing a Confidence-based Soft Pseudo-label strategy to mitigate the pseudo-noise caused by similar methods in unlabeled set. In addition, we extend the CPL framework with a multi-stage paradigm that leverages pre-train technique and iterative learning to further enhance traceability performance. Extensive experiments verify the superiority of our proposed method on the OW-DFA and also demonstrate the interpretability of deepfake attribution task and its impact on improving the security of deepfake detection area. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Investigating Personalization Methods in Text to Music Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11140  
**Abstract:** In this work, we investigate the personalization of text-to-music diffusion models in a few-shot setting. Motivated by recent advances in the computer vision domain, we are the first to explore the combination of pre-trained text-to-audio diffusers with two established personalization methods. We experiment with the effect of audio-specific data augmentation on the overall system performance and assess different training strategies. For evaluation, we construct a novel dataset with prompts and music clips. We consider both embedding-based and music-specific metrics for quantitative evaluation, as well as a user study for qualitative evaluation. Our analysis shows that similarity metrics are in accordance with user preferences and that current personalization approaches tend to learn rhythmic music constructs more easily than melody. The code, dataset, and example material of this study are open to the research community. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** CoT-BERT: Enhancing Unsupervised Sentence Representation through  Chain-of-Thought  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11143  
**Abstract:** Unsupervised sentence representation learning aims to transform input sentences into fixed-length vectors enriched with intricate semantic information while obviating the reliance on labeled data. Recent progress within this field, propelled by contrastive learning and prompt engineering, has significantly bridged the gap between unsupervised and supervised strategies. Nonetheless, the potential utilization of Chain-of-Thought, remains largely untapped within this trajectory. To unlock latent capabilities within pre-trained models, such as BERT, we propose a two-stage approach for sentence representation: comprehension and summarization. Subsequently, the output of the latter phase is harnessed as the vectorized representation of the input sentence. For further performance enhancement, we meticulously refine both the contrastive learning loss function and the template denoising technique for prompt engineering. Rigorous experimentation substantiates our method, CoT-BERT, transcending a suite of robust baselines without necessitating other text representation models or external databases. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Testing frequency distributions in a stream  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11175  
**Abstract:** We study how to verify specific frequency distributions when we observe a stream of $N$ data items taken from a universe of $n$ distinct items. We introduce the \emph{relative Fr\'echet distance} to compare two frequency functions in a homogeneous manner. We consider two streaming models: insertions only and sliding windows. We present a Tester for a certain class of functions, which decides if $f $ is close to $g$ or if $f$ is far from $g$ with high probability, when $f$ is given and $g$ is defined by a stream. If $f$ is uniform we show a space $\Omega(n)$ lower bound. If $f$ decreases fast enough, we then only use space $O(\log^2 n\cdot \log\log n)$. The analysis relies on the Spacesaving algorithm \cite{MAE2005,Z22} and on sampling the stream. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** The Languini Kitchen: Enabling Language Modelling Research at Different  Scales of Compute  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11197  
**Abstract:** The Languini Kitchen serves as both a research collective and codebase designed to empower researchers with limited computational resources to contribute meaningfully to the field of language modelling. We introduce an experimental protocol that enables model comparisons based on equivalent compute, measured in accelerator hours. The number of tokens on which a model is trained is defined by the model's throughput and the chosen compute class. Notably, this approach avoids constraints on critical hyperparameters which affect total parameters or floating-point operations. For evaluation, we pre-process an existing large, diverse, and high-quality dataset of books that surpasses existing academic benchmarks in quality, diversity, and document length. On it, we compare methods based on their empirical scaling trends which are estimated through experiments at various levels of compute. This work also provides two baseline models: a feed-forward model derived from the GPT-2 architecture and a recurrent model in the form of a novel LSTM with ten-fold throughput. While the GPT baseline achieves better perplexity throughout all our levels of compute, our LSTM baseline exhibits a predictable and more favourable scaling law. This is due to the improved throughput and the need for fewer training tokens to achieve the same decrease in test perplexity. Extrapolating the scaling laws leads of both models results in an intersection at roughly 50,000 accelerator hours. We hope this work can serve as the foundation for meaningful and reproducible language modelling research. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Automatic Bat Call Classification using Transformer Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11218  
**Abstract:** Automatically identifying bat species from their echolocation calls is a difficult but important task for monitoring bats and the ecosystem they live in. Major challenges in automatic bat call identification are high call variability, similarities between species, interfering calls and lack of annotated data. Many currently available models suffer from relatively poor performance on real-life data due to being trained on single call datasets and, moreover, are often too slow for real-time classification. Here, we propose a Transformer architecture for multi-label classification with potential applications in real-time classification scenarios. We train our model on synthetically generated multi-species recordings by merging multiple bats calls into a single recording with multiple simultaneous calls. Our approach achieves a single species accuracy of 88.92% (F1-score of 84.23%) and a multi species macro F1-score of 74.40% on our test set. In comparison to three other tools on the independent and publicly available dataset ChiroVox, our model achieves at least 25.82% better accuracy for single species classification and at least 6.9% better macro F1-score for multi species classification. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** ChatGPT-4 as a Tool for Reviewing Academic Books in Spanish  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11231  
**Abstract:** This study evaluates the potential of ChatGPT-4, an artificial intelligence language model developed by OpenAI, as an editing tool for Spanish literary and academic books. The need for efficient and accessible reviewing and editing processes in the publishing industry has driven the search for automated solutions. ChatGPT-4, being one of the most advanced language models, offers notable capabilities in text comprehension and generation. In this study, the features and capabilities of ChatGPT-4 are analyzed in terms of grammatical correction, stylistic coherence, and linguistic enrichment of texts in Spanish. Tests were conducted with 100 literary and academic texts, where the edits made by ChatGPT-4 were compared to those made by expert human reviewers and editors. The results show that while ChatGPT-4 is capable of making grammatical and orthographic corrections with high accuracy and in a very short time, it still faces challenges in areas such as context sensitivity, bibliometric analysis, deep contextual understanding, and interaction with visual content like graphs and tables. However, it is observed that collaboration between ChatGPT-4 and human reviewers and editors can be a promising strategy for improving efficiency without compromising quality. Furthermore, the authors consider that ChatGPT-4 represents a valuable tool in the editing process, but its use should be complementary to the work of human editors to ensure high-caliber editing in Spanish literary and academic books. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Box2Poly: Memory-Efficient Polygon Prediction of Arbitrarily Shaped and  Rotated Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11248  
**Abstract:** Recently, Transformer-based text detection techniques have sought to predict polygons by encoding the coordinates of individual boundary vertices using distinct query features. However, this approach incurs a significant memory overhead and struggles to effectively capture the intricate relationships between vertices belonging to the same instance. Consequently, irregular text layouts often lead to the prediction of outlined vertices, diminishing the quality of results. To address these challenges, we present an innovative approach rooted in Sparse R-CNN: a cascade decoding pipeline for polygon prediction. Our method ensures precision by iteratively refining polygon predictions, considering both the scale and location of preceding results. Leveraging this stabilized regression pipeline, even employing just a single feature vector to guide polygon instance regression yields promising detection results. Simultaneously, the leverage of instance-level feature proposal substantially enhances memory efficiency (>50% less vs. the state-of-the-art method DPText-DETR) and reduces inference speed (>40% less vs. DPText-DETR) with minor performance drop on benchmarks. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** TwinTex: Geometry-aware Texture Generation for Abstracted 3D  Architectural Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11258  
**Abstract:** Coarse architectural models are often generated at scales ranging from individual buildings to scenes for downstream applications such as Digital Twin City, Metaverse, LODs, etc. Such piece-wise planar models can be abstracted as twins from 3D dense reconstructions. However, these models typically lack realistic texture relative to the real building or scene, making them unsuitable for vivid display or direct reference. In this paper, we present TwinTex, the first automatic texture mapping framework to generate a photo-realistic texture for a piece-wise planar proxy. Our method addresses most challenges occurring in such twin texture generation. Specifically, for each primitive plane, we first select a small set of photos with greedy heuristics considering photometric quality, perspective quality and facade texture completeness. Then, different levels of line features (LoLs) are extracted from the set of selected photos to generate guidance for later steps. With LoLs, we employ optimization algorithms to align texture with geometry from local to global. Finally, we fine-tune a diffusion model with a multi-mask initialization component and a new dataset to inpaint the missing region. Experimental results on many buildings, indoor scenes and man-made objects of varying complexity demonstrate the generalization ability of our algorithm. Our approach surpasses state-of-the-art texture mapping methods in terms of high-fidelity quality and reaches a human-expert production level with much less effort. Project page: https://vcc.tech/research/2023/TwinTex. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Sequence-to-Sequence Spanish Pre-trained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11259  
**Abstract:** In recent years, substantial advancements in pre-trained language models have paved the way for the development of numerous non-English language versions, with a particular focus on encoder-only and decoder-only architectures. While Spanish language models encompassing BERT, RoBERTa, and GPT have exhibited prowess in natural language understanding and generation, there remains a scarcity of encoder-decoder models designed for sequence-to-sequence tasks involving input-output pairs. This paper breaks new ground by introducing the implementation and evaluation of renowned encoder-decoder architectures, exclusively pre-trained on Spanish corpora. Specifically, we present Spanish versions of BART, T5, and BERT2BERT-style models and subject them to a comprehensive assessment across a diverse range of sequence-to-sequence tasks, spanning summarization, rephrasing, and generative question answering. Our findings underscore the competitive performance of all models, with BART and T5 emerging as top performers across all evaluated tasks. As an additional contribution, we have made all models publicly available to the research community, fostering future exploration and development in Spanish language processing. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Grounded Complex Task Segmentation for Conversational Assistants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11271  
**Abstract:** Following complex instructions in conversational assistants can be quite daunting due to the shorter attention and memory spans when compared to reading the same instructions. Hence, when conversational assistants walk users through the steps of complex tasks, there is a need to structure the task into manageable pieces of information of the right length and complexity. In this paper, we tackle the recipes domain and convert reading structured instructions into conversational structured ones. We annotated the structure of instructions according to a conversational scenario, which provided insights into what is expected in this setting. To computationally model the conversational step's characteristics, we tested various Transformer-based architectures, showing that a token-based approach delivers the best results. A further user study showed that users tend to favor steps of manageable complexity and length, and that the proposed methodology can improve the original web-based instructional text. Specifically, 86% of the evaluated tasks were improved from a conversational suitability point of view. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Language-driven Object Fusion into Neural Radiance Fields with  Pose-Conditioned Dataset Updates  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11281  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance field is an emerging rendering method that generates high-quality multi-view consistent images from a neural scene representation and volume rendering. Although neural radiance field-based techniques are robust for scene reconstruction, their ability to add or remove objects remains limited. This paper proposes a new language-driven approach for object manipulation with neural radiance fields through dataset updates. Specifically, to insert a new foreground object represented by a set of multi-view images into a background radiance field, we use a text-to-image diffusion model to learn and generate combined images that fuse the object of interest into the given background across views. These combined images are then used for refining the background radiance field so that we can render view-consistent images containing both the object and the background. To ensure view consistency, we propose a dataset updates strategy that prioritizes radiance field training with camera views close to the already-trained views prior to propagating the training to remaining views. We show that under the same dataset updates strategy, we can easily adapt our method for object insertion using data from text-to-3D models as well as object removal. Experimental results show that our method generates photorealistic images of the edited scenes, and outperforms state-of-the-art methods in 3D reconstruction and neural radiance field blending. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** CPLLM: Clinical Prediction with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11295  
**Abstract:** We present Clinical Prediction with Large Language Models (CPLLM), a method that involves fine-tuning a pre-trained Large Language Model (LLM) for clinical disease prediction. We utilized quantization and fine-tuned the LLM using prompts, with the task of predicting whether patients will be diagnosed with a target disease during their next visit or in the subsequent diagnosis, leveraging their historical diagnosis records. We compared our results versus various baselines, including Logistic Regression, RETAIN, and Med-BERT, which is the current state-of-the-art model for disease prediction using structured EHR data. Our experiments have shown that CPLLM surpasses all the tested models in terms of both PR-AUC and ROC-AUC metrics, displaying noteworthy enhancements compared to the baseline models. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** FaceDiffuser: Speech-Driven 3D Facial Animation Synthesis Using  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11306  
**Abstract:** Speech-driven 3D facial animation synthesis has been a challenging task both in industry and research. Recent methods mostly focus on deterministic deep learning methods meaning that given a speech input, the output is always the same. However, in reality, the non-verbal facial cues that reside throughout the face are non-deterministic in nature. In addition, majority of the approaches focus on 3D vertex based datasets and methods that are compatible with existing facial animation pipelines with rigged characters is scarce. To eliminate these issues, we present FaceDiffuser, a non-deterministic deep learning model to generate speech-driven facial animations that is trained with both 3D vertex and blendshape based datasets. Our method is based on the diffusion technique and uses the pre-trained large speech representation model HuBERT to encode the audio input. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to employ the diffusion method for the task of speech-driven 3D facial animation synthesis. We have run extensive objective and subjective analyses and show that our approach achieves better or comparable results in comparison to the state-of-the-art methods. We also introduce a new in-house dataset that is based on a blendshape based rigged character. We recommend watching the accompanying supplementary video. The code and the dataset will be publicly available. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Rating Prediction in Conversational Task Assistants with Behavioral and  Conversational-Flow Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11307  
**Abstract:** Predicting the success of Conversational Task Assistants (CTA) can be critical to understand user behavior and act accordingly. In this paper, we propose TB-Rater, a Transformer model which combines conversational-flow features with user behavior features for predicting user ratings in a CTA scenario. In particular, we use real human-agent conversations and ratings collected in the Alexa TaskBot challenge, a novel multimodal and multi-turn conversational context. Our results show the advantages of modeling both the conversational-flow and behavioral aspects of the conversation in a single model for offline rating prediction. Additionally, an analysis of the CTA-specific behavioral features brings insights into this setting and can be used to bootstrap future systems. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** WFTNet: Exploiting Global and Local Periodicity in Long-term Time Series  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11319  
**Abstract:** Recent CNN and Transformer-based models tried to utilize frequency and periodicity information for long-term time series forecasting. However, most existing work is based on Fourier transform, which cannot capture fine-grained and local frequency structure. In this paper, we propose a Wavelet-Fourier Transform Network (WFTNet) for long-term time series forecasting. WFTNet utilizes both Fourier and wavelet transforms to extract comprehensive temporal-frequency information from the signal, where Fourier transform captures the global periodic patterns and wavelet transform captures the local ones. Furthermore, we introduce a Periodicity-Weighted Coefficient (PWC) to adaptively balance the importance of global and local frequency patterns. Extensive experiments on various time series datasets show that WFTNet consistently outperforms other state-of-the-art baseline. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Face Aging via Diffusion-based Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11321  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we address the problem of face aging: generating past or future facial images by incorporating age-related changes to the given face. Previous aging methods rely solely on human facial image datasets and are thus constrained by their inherent scale and bias. This restricts their application to a limited generatable age range and the inability to handle large age gaps. We propose FADING, a novel approach to address Face Aging via DIffusion-based editiNG. We go beyond existing methods by leveraging the rich prior of large-scale language-image diffusion models. First, we specialize a pre-trained diffusion model for the task of face age editing by using an age-aware fine-tuning scheme. Next, we invert the input image to latent noise and obtain optimized null text embeddings. Finally, we perform text-guided local age editing via attention control. The quantitative and qualitative analyses demonstrate that our method outperforms existing approaches with respect to aging accuracy, attribute preservation, and aging quality. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Gold-YOLO: Efficient Object Detector via Gather-and-Distribute Mechanism  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11331  
**Abstract:** In the past years, YOLO-series models have emerged as the leading approaches in the area of real-time object detection. Many studies pushed up the baseline to a higher level by modifying the architecture, augmenting data and designing new losses. However, we find previous models still suffer from information fusion problem, although Feature Pyramid Network (FPN) and Path Aggregation Network (PANet) have alleviated this. Therefore, this study provides an advanced Gatherand-Distribute mechanism (GD) mechanism, which is realized with convolution and self-attention operations. This new designed model named as Gold-YOLO, which boosts the multi-scale feature fusion capabilities and achieves an ideal balance between latency and accuracy across all model scales. Additionally, we implement MAE-style pretraining in the YOLO-series for the first time, allowing YOLOseries models could be to benefit from unsupervised pretraining. Gold-YOLO-N attains an outstanding 39.9% AP on the COCO val2017 datasets and 1030 FPS on a T4 GPU, which outperforms the previous SOTA model YOLOv6-3.0-N with similar FPS by +2.4%. The PyTorch code is available at https://github.com/huaweinoah/Efficient-Computing/Detection/Gold-YOLO, and the MindSpore code is available at https://gitee.com/mindspore/models/tree/master/research/cv/Gold_YOLO. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Knowledge Graph Question Answering for Materials Science (KGQA4MAT):  Developing Natural Language Interface for Metal-Organic Frameworks Knowledge  Graph (MOF-KG)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11361  
**Abstract:** We present a comprehensive benchmark dataset for Knowledge Graph Question Answering in Materials Science (KGQA4MAT), with a focus on metal-organic frameworks (MOFs). A knowledge graph for metal-organic frameworks (MOF-KG) has been constructed by integrating structured databases and knowledge extracted from the literature. To enhance MOF-KG accessibility for domain experts, we aim to develop a natural language interface for querying the knowledge graph. We have developed a benchmark comprised of 161 complex questions involving comparison, aggregation, and complicated graph structures. Each question is rephrased in three additional variations, resulting in 644 questions and 161 KG queries. To evaluate the benchmark, we have developed a systematic approach for utilizing ChatGPT to translate natural language questions into formal KG queries. We also apply the approach to the well-known QALD-9 dataset, demonstrating ChatGPT's potential in addressing KGQA issues for different platforms and query languages. The benchmark and the proposed approach aim to stimulate further research and development of user-friendly and efficient interfaces for querying domain-specific materials science knowledge graphs, thereby accelerating the discovery of novel materials. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Discuss Before Moving: Visual Language Navigation via Multi-expert  Discussions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11382  
**Abstract:** Visual language navigation (VLN) is an embodied task demanding a wide range of skills encompassing understanding, perception, and planning. For such a multifaceted challenge, previous VLN methods totally rely on one model's own thinking to make predictions within one round. However, existing models, even the most advanced large language model GPT4, still struggle with dealing with multiple tasks by single-round self-thinking. In this work, drawing inspiration from the expert consultation meeting, we introduce a novel zero-shot VLN framework. Within this framework, large models possessing distinct abilities are served as domain experts. Our proposed navigation agent, namely DiscussNav, can actively discuss with these experts to collect essential information before moving at every step. These discussions cover critical navigation subtasks like instruction understanding, environment perception, and completion estimation. Through comprehensive experiments, we demonstrate that discussions with domain experts can effectively facilitate navigation by perceiving instruction-relevant information, correcting inadvertent errors, and sifting through in-consistent movement decisions. The performances on the representative VLN task R2R show that our method surpasses the leading zero-shot VLN model by a large margin on all metrics. Additionally, real-robot experiments display the obvious advantages of our method over single-round self-thinking. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Safurai 001: New Qualitative Approach for Code LLM Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11385  
**Abstract:** This paper presents Safurai-001, a new Large Language Model (LLM) with significant potential in the domain of coding assistance. Driven by recent advancements in coding LLMs, Safurai-001 competes in performance with the latest models like WizardCoder [Xu et al., 2023], PanguCoder [Shen et al., 2023] and Phi-1 [Gunasekar et al., 2023] but aims to deliver a more conversational interaction. By capitalizing on the progress in data engineering (including latest techniques of data transformation and prompt engineering) and instruction tuning, this new model promises to stand toe-to-toe with recent closed and open source developments. Recognizing the need for an efficacious evaluation metric for coding LLMs, this paper also introduces GPT4-based MultiParameters, an evaluation benchmark that harnesses varied parameters to present a comprehensive insight into the models functioning and performance. Our assessment shows that Safurai-001 can outperform GPT-3.5 by 1.58% and WizardCoder by 18.78% in the Code Readability parameter and more. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** EDMP: Ensemble-of-costs-guided Diffusion for Motion Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11414  
**Abstract:** Classical motion planning for robotic manipulation includes a set of general algorithms that aim to minimize a scene-specific cost of executing a given plan. This approach offers remarkable adaptability, as they can be directly used off-the-shelf for any new scene without needing specific training datasets. However, without a prior understanding of what diverse valid trajectories are and without specially designed cost functions for a given scene, the overall solutions tend to have low success rates. While deep-learning-based algorithms tremendously improve success rates, they are much harder to adopt without specialized training datasets. We propose EDMP, an Ensemble-of-costs-guided Diffusion for Motion Planning that aims to combine the strengths of classical and deep-learning-based motion planning. Our diffusion-based network is trained on a set of diverse kinematically valid trajectories. Like classical planning, for any new scene at the time of inference, we compute scene-specific costs such as "collision cost" and guide the diffusion to generate valid trajectories that satisfy the scene-specific constraints. Further, instead of a single cost function that may be insufficient in capturing diversity across scenes, we use an ensemble of costs to guide the diffusion process, significantly improving the success rate compared to classical planners. EDMP performs comparably with SOTA deep-learning-based methods while retaining the generalization capabilities primarily associated with classical planners. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Kosmos-2.5: A Multimodal Literate Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11419  
**Abstract:** We present Kosmos-2.5, a multimodal literate model for machine reading of text-intensive images. Pre-trained on large-scale text-intensive images, Kosmos-2.5 excels in two distinct yet cooperative transcription tasks: (1) generating spatially-aware text blocks, where each block of text is assigned its spatial coordinates within the image, and (2) producing structured text output that captures styles and structures into the markdown format. This unified multimodal literate capability is achieved through a shared Transformer architecture, task-specific prompts, and flexible text representations. We evaluate Kosmos-2.5 on end-to-end document-level text recognition and image-to-markdown text generation. Furthermore, the model can be readily adapted for any text-intensive image understanding task with different prompts through supervised fine-tuning, making it a general-purpose tool for real-world applications involving text-rich images. This work also paves the way for the future scaling of multimodal large language models. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Deep Networks as Denoising Algorithms: Sample-Efficient Learning of  Diffusion Models in High-Dimensional Graphical Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11420  
**Abstract:** We investigate the approximation efficiency of score functions by deep neural networks in diffusion-based generative modeling. While existing approximation theories utilize the smoothness of score functions, they suffer from the curse of dimensionality for intrinsically high-dimensional data. This limitation is pronounced in graphical models such as Markov random fields, common for image distributions, where the approximation efficiency of score functions remains unestablished. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Generative Pre-Training of Time-Series Data for Unsupervised Fault  Detection in Semiconductor Manufacturing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11427  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces TRACE-GPT, which stands for Time-seRies Anomaly-detection with Convolutional Embedding and Generative Pre-trained Transformers. TRACE-GPT is designed to pre-train univariate time-series sensor data and detect faults on unlabeled datasets in semiconductor manufacturing. In semiconductor industry, classifying abnormal time-series sensor data from normal data is important because it is directly related to wafer defect. However, small, unlabeled, and even mixed training data without enough anomalies make classification tasks difficult. In this research, we capture features of time-series data with temporal convolutional embedding and Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) to classify abnormal sequences from normal sequences using cross entropy loss. We prove that our model shows better performance than previous unsupervised models with both an open dataset, the University of California Riverside (UCR) time-series classification archive, and the process log of our Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) equipment. Our model has the highest F1 score at Equal Error Rate (EER) across all datasets and is only 0.026 below the supervised state-of-the-art baseline on the open dataset. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Controlled Generation with Prompt Insertion for Natural Language  Explanations in Grammatical Error Correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11439  
**Abstract:** In Grammatical Error Correction (GEC), it is crucial to ensure the user's comprehension of a reason for correction. Existing studies present tokens, examples, and hints as to the basis for correction but do not directly explain the reasons for corrections. Although methods that use Large Language Models (LLMs) to provide direct explanations in natural language have been proposed for various tasks, no such method exists for GEC. Generating explanations for GEC corrections involves aligning input and output tokens, identifying correction points, and presenting corresponding explanations consistently. However, it is not straightforward to specify a complex format to generate explanations, because explicit control of generation is difficult with prompts. This study introduces a method called controlled generation with Prompt Insertion (PI) so that LLMs can explain the reasons for corrections in natural language. In PI, LLMs first correct the input text, and then we automatically extract the correction points based on the rules. The extracted correction points are sequentially inserted into the LLM's explanation output as prompts, guiding the LLMs to generate explanations for the correction points. We also create an Explainable GEC (XGEC) dataset of correction reasons by annotating NUCLE, CoNLL2013, and CoNLL2014. Although generations from GPT-3 and ChatGPT using original prompts miss some correction points, the generation control using PI can explicitly guide to describe explanations for all correction points, contributing to improved performance in generating correction reasons. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** SkeleTR: Towrads Skeleton-based Action Recognition in the Wild  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11445  
**Abstract:** We present SkeleTR, a new framework for skeleton-based action recognition. In contrast to prior work, which focuses mainly on controlled environments, we target more general scenarios that typically involve a variable number of people and various forms of interaction between people. SkeleTR works with a two-stage paradigm. It first models the intra-person skeleton dynamics for each skeleton sequence with graph convolutions, and then uses stacked Transformer encoders to capture person interactions that are important for action recognition in general scenarios. To mitigate the negative impact of inaccurate skeleton associations, SkeleTR takes relative short skeleton sequences as input and increases the number of sequences. As a unified solution, SkeleTR can be directly applied to multiple skeleton-based action tasks, including video-level action classification, instance-level action detection, and group-level activity recognition. It also enables transfer learning and joint training across different action tasks and datasets, which result in performance improvement. When evaluated on various skeleton-based action recognition benchmarks, SkeleTR achieves the state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Generative Agent-Based Modeling: Unveiling Social System Dynamics  through Coupling Mechanistic Models with Generative Artificial Intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11456  
**Abstract:** We discuss the emerging new opportunity for building feedback-rich computational models of social systems using generative artificial intelligence. Referred to as Generative Agent-Based Models (GABMs), such individual-level models utilize large language models such as ChatGPT to represent human decision-making in social settings. We provide a GABM case in which human behavior can be incorporated in simulation models by coupling a mechanistic model of human interactions with a pre-trained large language model. This is achieved by introducing a simple GABM of social norm diffusion in an organization. For educational purposes, the model is intentionally kept simple. We examine a wide range of scenarios and the sensitivity of the results to several changes in the prompt. We hope the article and the model serve as a guide for building useful diffusion models that include realistic human reasoning and decision-making. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Fictional Worlds, Real Connections: Developing Community Storytelling  Social Chatbots through LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11478  
**Abstract:** We address the integration of storytelling and Large Language Models (LLMs) to develop engaging and believable Social Chatbots (SCs) in community settings. Motivated by the potential of fictional characters to enhance social interactions, we introduce Storytelling Social Chatbots (SSCs) and the concept of story engineering to transform fictional game characters into "live" social entities within player communities. Our story engineering process includes three steps: (1) Character and story creation, defining the SC's personality and worldview, (2) Presenting Live Stories to the Community, allowing the SC to recount challenges and seek suggestions, and (3) Communication with community members, enabling interaction between the SC and users. We employed the LLM GPT-3 to drive our SSC prototypes, "David" and "Catherine," and evaluated their performance in an online gaming community, "DE (Alias)," on Discord. Our mixed-method analysis, based on questionnaires (N=15) and interviews (N=8) with community members, reveals that storytelling significantly enhances the engagement and believability of SCs in community settings. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** FreeU: Free Lunch in Diffusion U-Net  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11497  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we uncover the untapped potential of diffusion U-Net, which serves as a "free lunch" that substantially improves the generation quality on the fly. We initially investigate the key contributions of the U-Net architecture to the denoising process and identify that its main backbone primarily contributes to denoising, whereas its skip connections mainly introduce high-frequency features into the decoder module, causing the network to overlook the backbone semantics. Capitalizing on this discovery, we propose a simple yet effective method-termed "FreeU" - that enhances generation quality without additional training or finetuning. Our key insight is to strategically re-weight the contributions sourced from the U-Net's skip connections and backbone feature maps, to leverage the strengths of both components of the U-Net architecture. Promising results on image and video generation tasks demonstrate that our FreeU can be readily integrated to existing diffusion models, e.g., Stable Diffusion, DreamBooth, ModelScope, Rerender and ReVersion, to improve the generation quality with only a few lines of code. All you need is to adjust two scaling factors during inference. Project page: https://chenyangsi.top/FreeU/. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** DreamLLM: Synergistic Multimodal Comprehension and Creation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11499  
**Abstract:** This paper presents DreamLLM, a learning framework that first achieves versatile Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) empowered with frequently overlooked synergy between multimodal comprehension and creation. DreamLLM operates on two fundamental principles. The first focuses on the generative modeling of both language and image posteriors by direct sampling in the raw multimodal space. This approach circumvents the limitations and information loss inherent to external feature extractors like CLIP, and a more thorough multimodal understanding is obtained. Second, DreamLLM fosters the generation of raw, interleaved documents, modeling both text and image contents, along with unstructured layouts. This allows DreamLLM to learn all conditional, marginal, and joint multimodal distributions effectively. As a result, DreamLLM is the first MLLM capable of generating free-form interleaved content. Comprehensive experiments highlight DreamLLM's superior performance as a zero-shot multimodal generalist, reaping from the enhanced learning synergy. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Latent Disentanglement in Mesh Variational Autoencoders Improves the  Diagnosis of Craniofacial Syndromes and Aids Surgical Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.10825  
**Abstract:** The use of deep learning to undertake shape analysis of the complexities of the human head holds great promise. However, there have traditionally been a number of barriers to accurate modelling, especially when operating on both a global and local level. In this work, we will discuss the application of the Swap Disentangled Variational Autoencoder (SD-VAE) with relevance to Crouzon, Apert and Muenke syndromes. Although syndrome classification is performed on the entire mesh, it is also possible, for the first time, to analyse the influence of each region of the head on the syndromic phenotype. By manipulating specific parameters of the generative model, and producing procedure-specific new shapes, it is also possible to simulate the outcome of a range of craniofacial surgical procedures. This opens new avenues to advance diagnosis, aids surgical planning and allows for the objective evaluation of surgical outcomes. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Embed-Search-Align: DNA Sequence Alignment using Transformer Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11087  
**Abstract:** DNA sequence alignment involves assigning short DNA reads to the most probable locations on an extensive reference genome. This process is crucial for various genomic analyses, including variant calling, transcriptomics, and epigenomics. Conventional methods, refined over decades, tackle this challenge in two steps: genome indexing followed by efficient search to locate likely positions for given reads. Building on the success of Large Language Models (LLM) in encoding text into embeddings, where the distance metric captures semantic similarity, recent efforts have explored whether the same Transformer architecture can produce numerical representations for DNA sequences. Such models have shown early promise in tasks involving classification of short DNA sequences, such as the detection of coding vs non-coding regions, as well as the identification of enhancer and promoter sequences. Performance at sequence classification tasks does not, however, translate to sequence alignment, where it is necessary to conduct a genome-wide search to successfully align every read. We address this open problem by framing it as an Embed-Search-Align task. In this framework, a novel encoder model DNA-ESA generates representations of reads and fragments of the reference, which are projected into a shared vector space where the read-fragment distance is used as surrogate for alignment. In particular, DNA-ESA introduces: (1) Contrastive loss for self-supervised training of DNA sequence representations, facilitating rich sequence-level embeddings, and (2) a DNA vector store to enable search across fragments on a global scale. DNA-ESA is >97% accurate when aligning 250-length reads onto a human reference genome of 3 gigabases (single-haploid), far exceeds the performance of 6 recent DNA-Transformer model baselines and shows task transfer across chromosomes and species. 

