**ID:** 1  
**Title:** AdBooster: Personalized Ad Creative Generation using Stable Diffusion  Outpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11507  
**Abstract:** In digital advertising, the selection of the optimal item (recommendation) and its best creative presentation (creative optimization) have traditionally been considered separate disciplines. However, both contribute significantly to user satisfaction, underpinning our assumption that it relies on both an item's relevance and its presentation, particularly in the case of visual creatives. In response, we introduce the task of {\itshape Generative Creative Optimization (GCO)}, which proposes the use of generative models for creative generation that incorporate user interests, and {\itshape AdBooster}, a model for personalized ad creatives based on the Stable Diffusion outpainting architecture. This model uniquely incorporates user interests both during fine-tuning and at generation time. To further improve AdBooster's performance, we also introduce an automated data augmentation pipeline. Through our experiments on simulated data, we validate AdBooster's effectiveness in generating more relevant creatives than default product images, showing its potential of enhancing user engagement. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Towards LLM-based Autograding for Short Textual Answers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11508  
**Abstract:** Grading of exams is an important, labor intensive, subjective, repetitive and frequently challenging task. The feasibility of autograding textual responses has greatly increased thanks to the availability of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and because of the substantial influx of data brought about by digitalization. However, entrusting AI models with decision-making roles raises ethical considerations, mainly stemming from potential biases and issues related to generating false information. Thus, in this manuscript we provide an evaluation of a large language model for the purpose of autograding, while also highlighting how LLMs can support educators in validating their grading procedures. Our evaluation is targeted towards automatic short textual answers grading (ASAG), spanning various languages and examinations from two distinct courses. Our findings suggest that while "out-of-the-box" LLMs provide a valuable tool to provide a complementary perspective, their readiness for independent automated grading remains a work in progress, necessitating human oversight. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** RMT: Retentive Networks Meet Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11523  
**Abstract:** Transformer first appears in the field of natural language processing and is later migrated to the computer vision domain, where it demonstrates excellent performance in vision tasks. However, recently, Retentive Network (RetNet) has emerged as an architecture with the potential to replace Transformer, attracting widespread attention in the NLP community. Therefore, we raise the question of whether transferring RetNet's idea to vision can also bring outstanding performance to vision tasks. To address this, we combine RetNet and Transformer to propose RMT. Inspired by RetNet, RMT introduces explicit decay into the vision backbone, bringing prior knowledge related to spatial distances to the vision model. This distance-related spatial prior allows for explicit control of the range of tokens that each token can attend to. Additionally, to reduce the computational cost of global modeling, we decompose this modeling process along the two coordinate axes of the image. Abundant experiments have demonstrated that our RMT exhibits exceptional performance across various computer vision tasks. For example, RMT achieves 84.1% Top1-acc on ImageNet-1k using merely 4.5G FLOPs. To the best of our knowledge, among all models, RMT achieves the highest Top1-acc when models are of similar size and trained with the same strategy. Moreover, RMT significantly outperforms existing vision backbones in downstream tasks such as object detection, instance segmentation, and semantic segmentation. Our work is still in progress. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Light Field Diffusion for Single-View Novel View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11525  
**Abstract:** Single-view novel view synthesis, the task of generating images from new viewpoints based on a single reference image, is an important but challenging task in computer vision. Recently, Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model (DDPM) has become popular in this area due to its strong ability to generate high-fidelity images. However, current diffusion-based methods directly rely on camera pose matrices as viewing conditions, globally and implicitly introducing 3D constraints. These methods may suffer from inconsistency among generated images from different perspectives, especially in regions with intricate textures and structures. In this work, we present Light Field Diffusion (LFD), a conditional diffusion-based model for single-view novel view synthesis. Unlike previous methods that employ camera pose matrices, LFD transforms the camera view information into light field encoding and combines it with the reference image. This design introduces local pixel-wise constraints within the diffusion models, thereby encouraging better multi-view consistency. Experiments on several datasets show that our LFD can efficiently generate high-fidelity images and maintain better 3D consistency even in intricate regions. Our method can generate images with higher quality than NeRF-based models, and we obtain sample quality similar to other diffusion-based models but with only one-third of the model size. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Latent Diffusion Models for Structural Component Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11601  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in generative modeling, namely Diffusion models, have revolutionized generative modeling, enabling high-quality image generation tailored to user needs. This paper proposes a framework for the generative design of structural components. Specifically, we employ a Latent Diffusion model to generate potential designs of a component that can satisfy a set of problem-specific loading conditions. One of the distinct advantages our approach offers over other generative approaches, such as generative adversarial networks (GANs), is that it permits the editing of existing designs. We train our model using a dataset of geometries obtained from structural topology optimization utilizing the SIMP algorithm. Consequently, our framework generates inherently near-optimal designs. Our work presents quantitative results that support the structural performance of the generated designs and the variability in potential candidate designs. Furthermore, we provide evidence of the scalability of our framework by operating over voxel domains with resolutions varying from $32^3$ to $128^3$. Our framework can be used as a starting point for generating novel near-optimal designs similar to topology-optimized designs. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Leveraging Negative Signals with Self-Attention for Sequential Music  Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11623  
**Abstract:** Music streaming services heavily rely on their recommendation engines to continuously provide content to their consumers. Sequential recommendation consequently has seen considerable attention in current literature, where state of the art approaches focus on self-attentive models leveraging contextual information such as long and short-term user history and item features; however, most of these studies focus on long-form content domains (retail, movie, etc.) rather than short-form, such as music. Additionally, many do not explore incorporating negative session-level feedback during training. In this study, we investigate the use of transformer-based self-attentive architectures to learn implicit session-level information for sequential music recommendation. We additionally propose a contrastive learning task to incorporate negative feedback (e.g skipped tracks) to promote positive hits and penalize negative hits. This task is formulated as a simple loss term that can be incorporated into a variety of deep learning architectures for sequential recommendation. Our experiments show that this results in consistent performance gains over the baseline architectures ignoring negative user feedback. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** GenLayNeRF: Generalizable Layered Representations with 3D Model  Alignment for Multi-Human View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11627  
**Abstract:** Novel view synthesis (NVS) of multi-human scenes imposes challenges due to the complex inter-human occlusions. Layered representations handle the complexities by dividing the scene into multi-layered radiance fields, however, they are mainly constrained to per-scene optimization making them inefficient. Generalizable human view synthesis methods combine the pre-fitted 3D human meshes with image features to reach generalization, yet they are mainly designed to operate on single-human scenes. Another drawback is the reliance on multi-step optimization techniques for parametric pre-fitting of the 3D body models that suffer from misalignment with the images in sparse view settings causing hallucinations in synthesized views. In this work, we propose, GenLayNeRF, a generalizable layered scene representation for free-viewpoint rendering of multiple human subjects which requires no per-scene optimization and very sparse views as input. We divide the scene into multi-human layers anchored by the 3D body meshes. We then ensure pixel-level alignment of the body models with the input views through a novel end-to-end trainable module that carries out iterative parametric correction coupled with multi-view feature fusion to produce aligned 3D models. For NVS, we extract point-wise image-aligned and human-anchored features which are correlated and fused using self-attention and cross-attention modules. We augment low-level RGB values into the features with an attention-based RGB fusion module. To evaluate our approach, we construct two multi-human view synthesis datasets; DeepMultiSyn and ZJU-MultiHuman. The results indicate that our proposed approach outperforms generalizable and non-human per-scene NeRF methods while performing at par with layered per-scene methods without test time optimization. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** "It's a Fair Game'', or Is It? Examining How Users Navigate Disclosure  Risks and Benefits When Using LLM-Based Conversational Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11653  
**Abstract:** The widespread use of Large Language Model (LLM)-based conversational agents (CAs), especially in high-stakes domains, raises many privacy concerns. Building ethical LLM-based CAs that respect user privacy requires an in-depth understanding of the privacy risks that concern users the most. However, existing research, primarily model-centered, does not provide insight into users' perspectives. To bridge this gap, we analyzed sensitive disclosures in real-world ChatGPT conversations and conducted semi-structured interviews with 19 LLM-based CA users. We found that users are constantly faced with trade-offs between privacy, utility, and convenience when using LLM-based CAs. However, users' erroneous mental models and the dark patterns in system design limited their awareness and comprehension of the privacy risks. Additionally, the human-like interactions encouraged more sensitive disclosures, which complicated users' ability to navigate the trade-offs. We discuss practical design guidelines and the needs for paradigmatic shifts to protect the privacy of LLM-based CA users. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Popularity Degradation Bias in Local Music Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11671  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we study the effect of popularity degradation bias in the context of local music recommendations. Specifically, we examine how accurate two top-performing recommendation algorithms, Weight Relevance Matrix Factorization (WRMF) and Multinomial Variational Autoencoder (Mult-VAE), are at recommending artists as a function of artist popularity. We find that both algorithms improve recommendation performance for more popular artists and, as such, exhibit popularity degradation bias. While both algorithms produce a similar level of performance for more popular artists, Mult-VAE shows better relative performance for less popular artists. This suggests that this algorithm should be preferred for local (long-tail) music artist recommendation. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Generative AI in Mafia-like Game Simulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11672  
**Abstract:** In this research, we explore the efficacy and potential of Generative AI models, specifically focusing on their application in role-playing simulations exemplified through Spyfall, a renowned mafia-style game. By leveraging GPT-4's advanced capabilities, the study aimed to showcase the model's potential in understanding, decision-making, and interaction during game scenarios. Comparative analyses between GPT-4 and its predecessor, GPT-3.5-turbo, demonstrated GPT-4's enhanced adaptability to the game environment, with significant improvements in posing relevant questions and forming human-like responses. However, challenges such as the model;s limitations in bluffing and predicting opponent moves emerged. Reflections on game development, financial constraints, and non-verbal limitations of the study were also discussed. The findings suggest that while GPT-4 exhibits promising advancements over earlier models, there remains potential for further development, especially in instilling more human-like attributes in AI. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** A Paradigm Shift in Machine Translation: Boosting Translation  Performance of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11674  
**Abstract:** Generative Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable advancements in various NLP tasks. However, these advances have not been reflected in the translation task, especially those with moderate model sizes (i.e., 7B or 13B parameters), which still lag behind conventional supervised encoder-decoder translation models. Previous studies have attempted to improve the translation capabilities of these moderate LLMs, but their gains have been limited. In this study, we propose a novel fine-tuning approach for LLMs that is specifically designed for the translation task, eliminating the need for the abundant parallel data that traditional translation models usually depend on. Our approach consists of two fine-tuning stages: initial fine-tuning on monolingual data followed by subsequent fine-tuning on a small set of high-quality parallel data. We introduce the LLM developed through this strategy as Advanced Language Model-based trAnslator (ALMA). Based on LLaMA-2 as our underlying model, our results show that the model can achieve an average improvement of more than 12 BLEU and 12 COMET over its zero-shot performance across 10 translation directions from the WMT'21 (2 directions) and WMT'22 (8 directions) test datasets. The performance is significantly better than all prior work and even superior to the NLLB-54B model and GPT-3.5-text-davinci-003, with only 7B or 13B parameters. This method establishes the foundation for a novel training paradigm in machine translation. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Large-scale Pretraining Improves Sample Efficiency of Active Learning  based Molecule Virtual Screening  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11687  
**Abstract:** Virtual screening of large compound libraries to identify potential hit candidates is one of the earliest steps in drug discovery. As the size of commercially available compound collections grows exponentially to the scale of billions, brute-force virtual screening using traditional tools such as docking becomes infeasible in terms of time and computational resources. Active learning and Bayesian optimization has recently been proven as effective methods of narrowing down the search space. An essential component in those methods is a surrogate machine learning model that is trained with a small subset of the library to predict the desired properties of compounds. Accurate model can achieve high sample efficiency by finding the most promising compounds with only a fraction of the whole library being virtually screened. In this study, we examined the performance of pretrained transformer-based language model and graph neural network in Bayesian optimization active learning framework. The best pretrained models identifies 58.97% of the top-50000 by docking score after screening only 0.6% of an ultra-large library containing 99.5 million compounds, improving 8% over previous state-of-the-art baseline. Through extensive benchmarks, we show that the superior performance of pretrained models persists in both structure-based and ligand-based drug discovery. Such model can serve as a boost to the accuracy and sample efficiency of active learning based molecule virtual screening. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Memory-Augmented LLM Personalization with Short- and Long-Term Memory  Coordination  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11696  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT3.5, have exhibited remarkable proficiency in comprehending and generating natural language. However, their unpersonalized generation paradigm may result in suboptimal user-specific outcomes. Typically, users converse differently based on their knowledge and preferences. This necessitates the task of enhancing user-oriented LLM which remains unexplored. While one can fully train an LLM for this objective, the resource consumption is unaffordable. Prior research has explored memory-based methods to store and retrieve knowledge to enhance generation without retraining for new queries. However, we contend that a mere memory module is inadequate to comprehend a user's preference, and fully training an LLM can be excessively costly. In this study, we propose a novel computational bionic memory mechanism, equipped with a parameter-efficient fine-tuning schema, to personalize LLMs. Our extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed approach. To encourage further research into this area, we are releasing a new conversation dataset generated entirely by LLM based on an open-source medical corpus, as well as our implementation code. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Deshadow-Anything: When Segment Anything Model Meets Zero-shot shadow  removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11715  
**Abstract:** Segment Anything (SAM), an advanced universal image segmentation model trained on an expansive visual dataset, has set a new benchmark in image segmentation and computer vision. However, it faced challenges when it came to distinguishing between shadows and their backgrounds. To address this, we developed Deshadow-Anything, considering the generalization of large-scale datasets, and we performed Fine-tuning on large-scale datasets to achieve image shadow removal. The diffusion model can diffuse along the edges and textures of an image, helping to remove shadows while preserving the details of the image. Furthermore, we design Multi-Self-Attention Guidance (MSAG) and adaptive input perturbation (DDPM-AIP) to accelerate the iterative training speed of diffusion. Experiments on shadow removal tasks demonstrate that these methods can effectively improve image restoration performance. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** MarkNerf:Watermarking for Neural Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11747  
**Abstract:** A watermarking algorithm is proposed in this paper to address the copyright protection issue of implicit 3D models. The algorithm involves embedding watermarks into the images in the training set through an embedding network, and subsequently utilizing the NeRF model for 3D modeling. A copyright verifier is employed to generate a backdoor image by providing a secret perspective as input to the neural radiation field. Subsequently, a watermark extractor is devised using the hyperparameterization method of the neural network to extract the embedded watermark image from that perspective. In a black box scenario, if there is a suspicion that the 3D model has been used without authorization, the verifier can extract watermarks from a secret perspective to verify network copyright. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm effectively safeguards the copyright of 3D models. Furthermore, the extracted watermarks exhibit favorable visual effects and demonstrate robust resistance against various types of noise attacks. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** How Robust is Google's Bard to Adversarial Image Attacks?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11751  
**Abstract:** Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) that integrate text and other modalities (especially vision) have achieved unprecedented performance in various multimodal tasks. However, due to the unsolved adversarial robustness problem of vision models, MLLMs can have more severe safety and security risks by introducing the vision inputs. In this work, we study the adversarial robustness of Google's Bard, a competitive chatbot to ChatGPT that released its multimodal capability recently, to better understand the vulnerabilities of commercial MLLMs. By attacking white-box surrogate vision encoders or MLLMs, the generated adversarial examples can mislead Bard to output wrong image descriptions with a 22% success rate based solely on the transferability. We show that the adversarial examples can also attack other MLLMs, e.g., a 26% attack success rate against Bing Chat and a 86% attack success rate against ERNIE bot. Moreover, we identify two defense mechanisms of Bard, including face detection and toxicity detection of images. We design corresponding attacks to evade these defenses, demonstrating that the current defenses of Bard are also vulnerable. We hope this work can deepen our understanding on the robustness of MLLMs and facilitate future research on defenses. Our code is available at https://github.com/thu-ml/Attack-Bard. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Fast Satellite Tensorial Radiance Field for Multi-date Satellite Imagery  of Large Size  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11767  
**Abstract:** Existing NeRF models for satellite images suffer from slow speeds, mandatory solar information as input, and limitations in handling large satellite images. In response, we present SatensoRF, which significantly accelerates the entire process while employing fewer parameters for satellite imagery of large size. Besides, we observed that the prevalent assumption of Lambertian surfaces in neural radiance fields falls short for vegetative and aquatic elements. In contrast to the traditional hierarchical MLP-based scene representation, we have chosen a multiscale tensor decomposition approach for color, volume density, and auxiliary variables to model the lightfield with specular color. Additionally, to rectify inconsistencies in multi-date imagery, we incorporate total variation loss to restore the density tensor field and treat the problem as a denosing task.To validate our approach, we conducted assessments of SatensoRF using subsets from the spacenet multi-view dataset, which includes both multi-date and single-date multi-view RGB images. Our results clearly demonstrate that SatensoRF surpasses the state-of-the-art Sat-NeRF series in terms of novel view synthesis performance. Significantly, SatensoRF requires fewer parameters for training, resulting in faster training and inference speeds and reduced computational demands. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** SLHCat: Mapping Wikipedia Categories and Lists to DBpedia by Leveraging  Semantic, Lexical, and Hierarchical Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11791  
**Abstract:** Wikipedia articles are hierarchically organized through categories and lists, providing one of the most comprehensive and universal taxonomy, but its open creation is causing redundancies and inconsistencies. Assigning DBPedia classes to Wikipedia categories and lists can alleviate the problem, realizing a large knowledge graph which is essential for categorizing digital contents through entity linking and typing. However, the existing approach of CaLiGraph is producing incomplete and non-fine grained mappings. In this paper, we tackle the problem as ontology alignment, where structural information of knowledge graphs and lexical and semantic features of ontology class names are utilized to discover confident mappings, which are in turn utilized for finetuing pretrained language models in a distant supervision fashion. Our method SLHCat consists of two main parts: 1) Automatically generating training data by leveraging knowledge graph structure, semantic similarities, and named entity typing. 2) Finetuning and prompt-tuning of the pre-trained language model BERT are carried out over the training data, to capture semantic and syntactic properties of class names. Our model SLHCat is evaluated over a benchmark dataset constructed by annotating 3000 fine-grained CaLiGraph-DBpedia mapping pairs. SLHCat is outperforming the baseline model by a large margin of 25% in accuracy, offering a practical solution for large-scale ontology mapping. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Evaluating Large Language Models for Document-grounded Response  Generation in Information-Seeking Dialogues  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11838  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we investigate the use of large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT for document-grounded response generation in the context of information-seeking dialogues. For evaluation, we use the MultiDoc2Dial corpus of task-oriented dialogues in four social service domains previously used in the DialDoc 2022 Shared Task. Information-seeking dialogue turns are grounded in multiple documents providing relevant information. We generate dialogue completion responses by prompting a ChatGPT model, using two methods: Chat-Completion and LlamaIndex. ChatCompletion uses knowledge from ChatGPT model pretraining while LlamaIndex also extracts relevant information from documents. Observing that document-grounded response generation via LLMs cannot be adequately assessed by automatic evaluation metrics as they are significantly more verbose, we perform a human evaluation where annotators rate the output of the shared task winning system, the two Chat-GPT variants outputs, and human responses. While both ChatGPT variants are more likely to include information not present in the relevant segments, possibly including a presence of hallucinations, they are rated higher than both the shared task winning system and human responses. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** OSNet & MNetO: Two Types of General Reconstruction Architectures for  Linear Computed Tomography in Multi-Scenarios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11858  
**Abstract:** Recently, linear computed tomography (LCT) systems have actively attracted attention. To weaken projection truncation and image the region of interest (ROI) for LCT, the backprojection filtration (BPF) algorithm is an effective solution. However, in BPF for LCT, it is difficult to achieve stable interior reconstruction, and for differentiated backprojection (DBP) images of LCT, multiple rotation-finite inversion of Hilbert transform (Hilbert filtering)-inverse rotation operations will blur the image. To satisfy multiple reconstruction scenarios for LCT, including interior ROI, complete object, and exterior region beyond field-of-view (FOV), and avoid the rotation operations of Hilbert filtering, we propose two types of reconstruction architectures. The first overlays multiple DBP images to obtain a complete DBP image, then uses a network to learn the overlying Hilbert filtering function, referred to as the Overlay-Single Network (OSNet). The second uses multiple networks to train different directional Hilbert filtering models for DBP images of multiple linear scannings, respectively, and then overlays the reconstructed results, i.e., Multiple Networks Overlaying (MNetO). In two architectures, we introduce a Swin Transformer (ST) block to the generator of pix2pixGAN to extract both local and global features from DBP images at the same time. We investigate two architectures from different networks, FOV sizes, pixel sizes, number of projections, geometric magnification, and processing time. Experimental results show that two architectures can both recover images. OSNet outperforms BPF in various scenarios. For the different networks, ST-pix2pixGAN is superior to pix2pixGAN and CycleGAN. MNetO exhibits a few artifacts due to the differences among the multiple models, but any one of its models is suitable for imaging the exterior edge in a certain direction. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** TextCLIP: Text-Guided Face Image Generation And Manipulation Without  Adversarial Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11923  
**Abstract:** Text-guided image generation aimed to generate desired images conditioned on given texts, while text-guided image manipulation refers to semantically edit parts of a given image based on specified texts. For these two similar tasks, the key point is to ensure image fidelity as well as semantic consistency. Many previous approaches require complex multi-stage generation and adversarial training, while struggling to provide a unified framework for both tasks. In this work, we propose TextCLIP, a unified framework for text-guided image generation and manipulation without adversarial training. The proposed method accepts input from images or random noise corresponding to these two different tasks, and under the condition of the specific texts, a carefully designed mapping network that exploits the powerful generative capabilities of StyleGAN and the text image representation capabilities of Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) generates images of up to $1024\times1024$ resolution that can currently be generated. Extensive experiments on the Multi-modal CelebA-HQ dataset have demonstrated that our proposed method outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods, both on text-guided generation tasks and manipulation tasks. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Fully Transformer-Equipped Architecture for End-to-End Referring Video  Object Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11933  
**Abstract:** Referring Video Object Segmentation (RVOS) requires segmenting the object in video referred by a natural language query. Existing methods mainly rely on sophisticated pipelines to tackle such cross-modal task, and do not explicitly model the object-level spatial context which plays an important role in locating the referred object. Therefore, we propose an end-to-end RVOS framework completely built upon transformers, termed \textit{Fully Transformer-Equipped Architecture} (FTEA), which treats the RVOS task as a mask sequence learning problem and regards all the objects in video as candidate objects. Given a video clip with a text query, the visual-textual features are yielded by encoder, while the corresponding pixel-level and word-level features are aligned in terms of semantic similarity. To capture the object-level spatial context, we have developed the Stacked Transformer, which individually characterizes the visual appearance of each candidate object, whose feature map is decoded to the binary mask sequence in order directly. Finally, the model finds the best matching between mask sequence and text query. In addition, to diversify the generated masks for candidate objects, we impose a diversity loss on the model for capturing more accurate mask of the referred object. Empirical studies have shown the superiority of the proposed method on three benchmarks, e.g., FETA achieves 45.1% and 38.7% in terms of mAP on A2D Sentences (3782 videos) and J-HMDB Sentences (928 videos), respectively; it achieves 56.6% in terms of $\mathcal{J\&F}$ on Ref-YouTube-VOS (3975 videos and 7451 objects). Particularly, compared to the best candidate method, it has a gain of 2.1% and 3.2% in terms of P$@$0.5 on the former two, respectively, while it has a gain of 2.9% in terms of $\mathcal{J}$ on the latter one. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** NeuralLabeling: A versatile toolset for labeling vision datasets using  Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11966  
**Abstract:** We present NeuralLabeling, a labeling approach and toolset for annotating a scene using either bounding boxes or meshes and generating segmentation masks, affordance maps, 2D bounding boxes, 3D bounding boxes, 6DOF object poses, depth maps and object meshes. NeuralLabeling uses Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) as renderer, allowing labeling to be performed using 3D spatial tools while incorporating geometric clues such as occlusions, relying only on images captured from multiple viewpoints as input. To demonstrate the applicability of NeuralLabeling to a practical problem in robotics, we added ground truth depth maps to 30000 frames of transparent object RGB and noisy depth maps of glasses placed in a dishwasher captured using an RGBD sensor, yielding the Dishwasher30k dataset. We show that training a simple deep neural network with supervision using the annotated depth maps yields a higher reconstruction performance than training with the previously applied weakly supervised approach. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** LMSYS-Chat-1M: A Large-Scale Real-World LLM Conversation Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11998  
**Abstract:** Studying how people interact with large language models (LLMs) in real-world scenarios is increasingly important due to their widespread use in various applications. In this paper, we introduce LMSYS-Chat-1M, a large-scale dataset containing one million real-world conversations with 25 state-of-the-art LLMs. This dataset is collected from 210K unique IP addresses in the wild on our Vicuna demo and Chatbot Arena website. We offer an overview of the dataset's content, including its curation process, basic statistics, and topic distribution, highlighting its diversity, originality, and scale. We demonstrate its versatility through four use cases: developing content moderation models that perform similarly to GPT-4, building a safety benchmark, training instruction-following models that perform similarly to Vicuna, and creating challenging benchmark questions. We believe that this dataset will serve as a valuable resource for understanding and advancing LLM capabilities. The dataset is publicly available at \url{https://huggingface.co/datasets/lmsys/lmsys-chat-1m}. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Demystifying Visual Features of Movie Posters for Multi-Label Genre  Identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12022  
**Abstract:** In the film industry, movie posters have been an essential part of advertising and marketing for many decades, and continue to play a vital role even today in the form of digital posters through online, social media and OTT platforms. Typically, movie posters can effectively promote and communicate the essence of a film, such as its genre, visual style/ tone, vibe and storyline cue/ theme, which are essential to attract potential viewers. Identifying the genres of a movie often has significant practical applications in recommending the film to target audiences. Previous studies on movie genre identification are limited to subtitles, plot synopses, and movie scenes that are mostly accessible after the movie release. Posters usually contain pre-release implicit information to generate mass interest. In this paper, we work for automated multi-label genre identification only from movie poster images, without any aid of additional textual/meta-data information about movies, which is one of the earliest attempts of its kind. Here, we present a deep transformer network with a probabilistic module to identify the movie genres exclusively from the poster. For experimental analysis, we procured 13882 number of posters of 13 genres from the Internet Movie Database (IMDb), where our model performances were encouraging and even outperformed some major contemporary architectures. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Face Identity-Aware Disentanglement in StyleGAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12033  
**Abstract:** Conditional GANs are frequently used for manipulating the attributes of face images, such as expression, hairstyle, pose, or age. Even though the state-of-the-art models successfully modify the requested attributes, they simultaneously modify other important characteristics of the image, such as a person's identity. In this paper, we focus on solving this problem by introducing PluGeN4Faces, a plugin to StyleGAN, which explicitly disentangles face attributes from a person's identity. Our key idea is to perform training on images retrieved from movie frames, where a given person appears in various poses and with different attributes. By applying a type of contrastive loss, we encourage the model to group images of the same person in similar regions of latent space. Our experiments demonstrate that the modifications of face attributes performed by PluGeN4Faces are significantly less invasive on the remaining characteristics of the image than in the existing state-of-the-art models. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** AceGPT, Localizing Large Language Models in Arabic  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12053  
**Abstract:** This paper explores the imperative need and methodology for developing a localized Large Language Model (LLM) tailored for Arabic, a language with unique cultural characteristics that are not adequately addressed by current mainstream models like ChatGPT. Key concerns additionally arise when considering cultural sensitivity and local values. To this end, the paper outlines a packaged solution, including further pre-training with Arabic texts, supervised fine-tuning (SFT) using native Arabic instructions and GPT-4 responses in Arabic, and reinforcement learning with AI feedback (RLAIF) using a reward model that is sensitive to local culture and values. The objective is to train culturally aware and value-aligned Arabic LLMs that can serve the diverse application-specific needs of Arabic-speaking communities. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Wavelet-based Edge Multiscale Finite Element Methods for Singularly  Perturbed Convection-Diffusion Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12108  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel efficient and robust Wavelet-based Edge Multiscale Finite Element Method (WEMsFEM) motivated by \cite{MR3980476,GL18} to solve the singularly perturbed convection-diffusion equations. The main idea is to first establish a local splitting of the solution over a local region by a local bubble part and local Harmonic extension part, and then derive a global splitting by means of Partition of Unity. This facilitates a representation of the solution as a summation of a global bubble part and a global Harmonic extension part, where the first part can be computed locally in parallel. To approximate the second part, we construct an edge multiscale ansatz space locally with hierarchical bases as the local boundary data that has a guaranteed approximation rate without higher regularity requirement on the solution. The key innovation of this proposed WEMsFEM lies in a provable convergence rate with little restriction on the mesh size or the regularity of the solution. Its convergence rate with respect to the computational degree of freedom is rigorously analyzed, which is verified by extensive 2-d and 3-d numerical tests. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Exploiting CLIP-based Multi-modal Approach for Artwork Classification  and Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12110  
**Abstract:** Given the recent advances in multimodal image pretraining where visual models trained with semantically dense textual supervision tend to have better generalization capabilities than those trained using categorical attributes or through unsupervised techniques, in this work we investigate how recent CLIP model can be applied in several tasks in artwork domain. We perform exhaustive experiments on the NoisyArt dataset which is a dataset of artwork images crawled from public resources on the web. On such dataset CLIP achieves impressive results on (zero-shot) classification and promising results in both artwork-to-artwork and description-to-artwork domain. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Code Soliloquies for Accurate Calculations in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12161  
**Abstract:** High-quality conversational datasets are integral to the successful development of Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) that employ a Large Language Model (LLM) backend. These datasets, when used to fine-tune the LLM backend, significantly enhance the quality of interactions between students and ITS. A common strategy for developing these datasets involves generating synthetic student-teacher dialogues using advanced GPT-4 models. However, challenges arise when these dialogues demand complex calculations, common in subjects like physics. Despite its advanced capabilities, GPT-4's performance falls short in reliably handling even simple multiplication tasks, marking a significant limitation in its utility for these subjects. To address these challenges, this paper introduces an innovative stateful prompt design. Our approach generates a mock conversation between a student and a tutorbot, both roles simulated by GPT-4. Each student response triggers a soliloquy (an inner monologue) in the GPT-tutorbot, which assesses whether its response would necessitate calculations. If so, it proceeds to script the required code in Python and then uses the resulting output to construct its response to the student. Our approach notably enhances the quality of synthetic conversation datasets, especially for subjects that are calculation-intensive. Our findings show that our Higgs model -- a LLaMA finetuned with datasets generated through our novel stateful prompt design -- proficiently utilizes Python for computations. Consequently, finetuning with our datasets enriched with code soliloquies enhances not just the accuracy but also the computational reliability of Higgs' responses. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** ORTexME: Occlusion-Robust Human Shape and Pose via Temporal Average  Texture and Mesh Encoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12183  
**Abstract:** In 3D human shape and pose estimation from a monocular video, models trained with limited labeled data cannot generalize well to videos with occlusion, which is common in the wild videos. The recent human neural rendering approaches focusing on novel view synthesis initialized by the off-the-shelf human shape and pose methods have the potential to correct the initial human shape. However, the existing methods have some drawbacks such as, erroneous in handling occlusion, sensitive to inaccurate human segmentation, and ineffective loss computation due to the non-regularized opacity field. To address these problems, we introduce ORTexME, an occlusion-robust temporal method that utilizes temporal information from the input video to better regularize the occluded body parts. While our ORTexME is based on NeRF, to determine the reliable regions for the NeRF ray sampling, we utilize our novel average texture learning approach to learn the average appearance of a person, and to infer a mask based on the average texture. In addition, to guide the opacity-field updates in NeRF to suppress blur and noise, we propose the use of human body mesh. The quantitative evaluation demonstrates that our method achieves significant improvement on the challenging multi-person 3DPW dataset, where our method achieves 1.8 P-MPJPE error reduction. The SOTA rendering-based methods fail and enlarge the error up to 5.6 on the same dataset. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Boolformer: Symbolic Regression of Logic Functions with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12207  
**Abstract:** In this work, we introduce Boolformer, the first Transformer architecture trained to perform end-to-end symbolic regression of Boolean functions. First, we show that it can predict compact formulas for complex functions which were not seen during training, when provided a clean truth table. Then, we demonstrate its ability to find approximate expressions when provided incomplete and noisy observations. We evaluate the Boolformer on a broad set of real-world binary classification datasets, demonstrating its potential as an interpretable alternative to classic machine learning methods. Finally, we apply it to the widespread task of modelling the dynamics of gene regulatory networks. Using a recent benchmark, we show that Boolformer is competitive with state-of-the art genetic algorithms with a speedup of several orders of magnitude. Our code and models are available publicly. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Bad Actor, Good Advisor: Exploring the Role of Large Language Models in  Fake News Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12247  
**Abstract:** Detecting fake news requires both a delicate sense of diverse clues and a profound understanding of the real-world background, which remains challenging for detectors based on small language models (SLMs) due to their knowledge and capability limitations. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in various tasks, but whether and how LLMs could help with fake news detection remains underexplored. In this paper, we investigate the potential of LLMs in fake news detection. First, we conduct an empirical study and find that a sophisticated LLM such as GPT 3.5 could generally expose fake news and provide desirable multi-perspective rationales but still underperforms the basic SLM, fine-tuned BERT. Our subsequent analysis attributes such a gap to the LLM's inability to select and integrate rationales properly to conclude. Based on these findings, we propose that current LLMs may not substitute fine-tuned SLMs in fake news detection but can be a good advisor for SLMs by providing multi-perspective instructive rationales. To instantiate this proposal, we design an adaptive rationale guidance network for fake news detection (ARG), in which SLMs selectively acquire insights on news analysis from the LLMs' rationales. We further derive a rationale-free version of ARG by distillation, namely ARG-D, which services cost-sensitive scenarios without inquiring LLMs. Experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate that ARG and ARG-D outperform three types of baseline methods, including SLM-based, LLM-based, and combinations of small and large language models. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** SQUARE: Automatic Question Answering Evaluation using Multiple Positive  and Negative References  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12250  
**Abstract:** Evaluation of QA systems is very challenging and expensive, with the most reliable approach being human annotations of correctness of answers for questions. Recent works (AVA, BEM) have shown that transformer LM encoder based similarity metrics transfer well for QA evaluation, but they are limited by the usage of a single correct reference answer. We propose a new evaluation metric: SQuArE (Sentence-level QUestion AnsweRing Evaluation), using multiple reference answers (combining multiple correct and incorrect references) for sentence-form QA. We evaluate SQuArE on both sentence-level extractive (Answer Selection) and generative (GenQA) QA systems, across multiple academic and industrial datasets, and show that it outperforms previous baselines and obtains the highest correlation with human annotations. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** On the Relationship between Skill Neurons and Robustness in Prompt  Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12263  
**Abstract:** Prompt Tuning is a popular parameter-efficient finetuning method for pre-trained large language models (PLMs). Recently, based on experiments with RoBERTa, it has been suggested that Prompt Tuning activates specific neurons in the transformer's feed-forward networks, that are highly predictive and selective for the given task. In this paper, we study the robustness of Prompt Tuning in relation to these "skill neurons", using RoBERTa and T5. We show that prompts tuned for a specific task are transferable to tasks of the same type but are not very robust to adversarial data, with higher robustness for T5 than RoBERTa. At the same time, we replicate the existence of skill neurons in RoBERTa and further show that skill neurons also seem to exist in T5. Interestingly, the skill neurons of T5 determined on non-adversarial data are also among the most predictive neurons on the adversarial data, which is not the case for RoBERTa. We conclude that higher adversarial robustness may be related to a model's ability to activate the relevant skill neurons on adversarial data. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** The Cambridge Law Corpus: A Corpus for Legal AI Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12269  
**Abstract:** We introduce the Cambridge Law Corpus (CLC), a corpus for legal AI research. It consists of over 250 000 court cases from the UK. Most cases are from the 21st century, but the corpus includes cases as old as the 16th century. This paper presents the first release of the corpus, containing the raw text and meta-data. Together with the corpus, we provide annotations on case outcomes for 638 cases, done by legal experts. Using our annotated data, we have trained and evaluated case outcome extraction with GPT-3, GPT-4 and RoBERTa models to provide benchmarks. We include an extensive legal and ethical discussion to address the potentially sensitive nature of this material. As a consequence, the corpus will only be released for research purposes under certain restrictions. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** LLMR: Real-time Prompting of Interactive Worlds using Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12276  
**Abstract:** We present Large Language Model for Mixed Reality (LLMR), a framework for the real-time creation and modification of interactive Mixed Reality experiences using LLMs. LLMR leverages novel strategies to tackle difficult cases where ideal training data is scarce, or where the design goal requires the synthesis of internal dynamics, intuitive analysis, or advanced interactivity. Our framework relies on text interaction and the Unity game engine. By incorporating techniques for scene understanding, task planning, self-debugging, and memory management, LLMR outperforms the standard GPT-4 by 4x in average error rate. We demonstrate LLMR's cross-platform interoperability with several example worlds, and evaluate it on a variety of creation and modification tasks to show that it can produce and edit diverse objects, tools, and scenes. Finally, we conducted a usability study (N=11) with a diverse set that revealed participants had positive experiences with the system and would use it again. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Performance Conditioning for Diffusion-Based Multi-Instrument Music  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12283  
**Abstract:** Generating multi-instrument music from symbolic music representations is an important task in Music Information Retrieval (MIR). A central but still largely unsolved problem in this context is musically and acoustically informed control in the generation process. As the main contribution of this work, we propose enhancing control of multi-instrument synthesis by conditioning a generative model on a specific performance and recording environment, thus allowing for better guidance of timbre and style. Building on state-of-the-art diffusion-based music generative models, we introduce performance conditioning - a simple tool indicating the generative model to synthesize music with style and timbre of specific instruments taken from specific performances. Our prototype is evaluated using uncurated performances with diverse instrumentation and achieves state-of-the-art FAD realism scores while allowing novel timbre and style control. Our project page, including samples and demonstrations, is available at benadar293.github.io/midipm 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** MetaMath: Bootstrap Your Own Mathematical Questions for Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12284  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have pushed the limits of natural language understanding and exhibited excellent problem-solving ability. Despite the great success, most existing open-source LLMs (\eg, LLaMA-2) are still far away from satisfactory for solving mathematical problem due to the complex reasoning procedures. To bridge this gap, we propose \emph{MetaMath}, a fine-tuned language model that specializes in mathematical reasoning. Specifically, we start by bootstrapping mathematical questions by rewriting the question from multiple perspectives without extra knowledge, which results in a new dataset called {MetaMathQA}. Then we fine-tune the LLaMA-2 models on MetaMathQA. Experimental results on two popular benchmarks (\ie, GSM8K and MATH) for mathematical reasoning demonstrate that MetaMath outperforms a suite of open-source LLMs by a significant margin. Our MetaMath-7B model achieves $66.4\%$ on GSM8K and $19.4\%$ on MATH, exceeding the state-of-the-art models of the same size by $11.5\%$ and $8.7\%$. Particularly, {MetaMath-70B} achieves an accuracy of $82.3\%$ on {GSM8K}, slightly better than {GPT-3.5-Turbo}. We release the {MetaMathQA} dataset, the {MetaMath} models with different model sizes and the training code for public use. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** The Reversal Curse: LLMs trained on "A is B" fail to learn "B is A"  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12288  
**Abstract:** We expose a surprising failure of generalization in auto-regressive large language models (LLMs). If a model is trained on a sentence of the form "A is B", it will not automatically generalize to the reverse direction "B is A". This is the Reversal Curse. For instance, if a model is trained on "Olaf Scholz was the ninth Chancellor of Germany", it will not automatically be able to answer the question, "Who was the ninth Chancellor of Germany?". Moreover, the likelihood of the correct answer ("Olaf Scholz") will not be higher than for a random name. Thus, models exhibit a basic failure of logical deduction and do not generalize a prevalent pattern in their training set (i.e. if "A is B'' occurs, "B is A" is more likely to occur). We provide evidence for the Reversal Curse by finetuning GPT-3 and Llama-1 on fictitious statements such as "Uriah Hawthorne is the composer of 'Abyssal Melodies'" and showing that they fail to correctly answer "Who composed 'Abyssal Melodies?'". The Reversal Curse is robust across model sizes and model families and is not alleviated by data augmentation. We also evaluate ChatGPT (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) on questions about real-world celebrities, such as "Who is Tom Cruise's mother? [A: Mary Lee Pfeiffer]" and the reverse "Who is Mary Lee Pfeiffer's son?". GPT-4 correctly answers questions like the former 79% of the time, compared to 33% for the latter. This shows a failure of logical deduction that we hypothesize is caused by the Reversal Curse. Code is available at https://github.com/lukasberglund/reversal_curse. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** PanoVOS:Bridging Non-panoramic and Panoramic Views with Transformer for  Video Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12303  
**Abstract:** Panoramic videos contain richer spatial information and have attracted tremendous amounts of attention due to their exceptional experience in some fields such as autonomous driving and virtual reality. However, existing datasets for video segmentation only focus on conventional planar images. To address the challenge, in this paper, we present a panoramic video dataset, PanoVOS. The dataset provides 150 videos with high video resolutions and diverse motions. To quantify the domain gap between 2D planar videos and panoramic videos, we evaluate 15 off-the-shelf video object segmentation (VOS) models on PanoVOS. Through error analysis, we found that all of them fail to tackle pixel-level content discontinues of panoramic videos. Thus, we present a Panoramic Space Consistency Transformer (PSCFormer), which can effectively utilize the semantic boundary information of the previous frame for pixel-level matching with the current frame. Extensive experiments demonstrate that compared with the previous SOTA models, our PSCFormer network exhibits a great advantage in terms of segmentation results under the panoramic setting. Our dataset poses new challenges in panoramic VOS and we hope that our PanoVOS can advance the development of panoramic segmentation/tracking. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** TinyCLIP: CLIP Distillation via Affinity Mimicking and Weight  Inheritance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12314  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a novel cross-modal distillation method, called TinyCLIP, for large-scale language-image pre-trained models. The method introduces two core techniques: affinity mimicking and weight inheritance. Affinity mimicking explores the interaction between modalities during distillation, enabling student models to mimic teachers' behavior of learning cross-modal feature alignment in a visual-linguistic affinity space. Weight inheritance transmits the pre-trained weights from the teacher models to their student counterparts to improve distillation efficiency. Moreover, we extend the method into a multi-stage progressive distillation to mitigate the loss of informative weights during extreme compression. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate the efficacy of TinyCLIP, showing that it can reduce the size of the pre-trained CLIP ViT-B/32 by 50%, while maintaining comparable zero-shot performance. While aiming for comparable performance, distillation with weight inheritance can speed up the training by 1.4 - 7.8 $\times$ compared to training from scratch. Moreover, our TinyCLIP ViT-8M/16, trained on YFCC-15M, achieves an impressive zero-shot top-1 accuracy of 41.1% on ImageNet, surpassing the original CLIP ViT-B/16 by 3.5% while utilizing only 8.9% parameters. Finally, we demonstrate the good transferability of TinyCLIP in various downstream tasks. Code and models will be open-sourced at https://aka.ms/tinyclip. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** PIE: Simulating Disease Progression via Progressive Image Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11745  
**Abstract:** Disease progression simulation is a crucial area of research that has significant implications for clinical diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. One major challenge in this field is the lack of continuous medical imaging monitoring of individual patients over time. To address this issue, we develop a novel framework termed Progressive Image Editing (PIE) that enables controlled manipulation of disease-related image features, facilitating precise and realistic disease progression simulation. Specifically, we leverage recent advancements in text-to-image generative models to simulate disease progression accurately and personalize it for each patient. We theoretically analyze the iterative refining process in our framework as a gradient descent with an exponentially decayed learning rate. To validate our framework, we conduct experiments in three medical imaging domains. Our results demonstrate the superiority of PIE over existing methods such as Stable Diffusion Walk and Style-Based Manifold Extrapolation based on CLIP score (Realism) and Disease Classification Confidence (Alignment). Our user study collected feedback from 35 veteran physicians to assess the generated progressions. Remarkably, 76.2% of the feedback agrees with the fidelity of the generated progressions. To our best knowledge, PIE is the first of its kind to generate disease progression images meeting real-world standards. It is a promising tool for medical research and clinical practice, potentially allowing healthcare providers to model disease trajectories over time, predict future treatment responses, and improve patient outcomes. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** CoMFLP: Correlation Measure based Fast Search on ASR Layer Pruning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11768  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based speech recognition (ASR) model with deep layers exhibited significant performance improvement. However, the model is inefficient for deployment on resource-constrained devices. Layer pruning (LP) is a commonly used compression method to remove redundant layers. Previous studies on LP usually identify the redundant layers according to a task-specific evaluation metric. They are time-consuming for models with a large number of layers, even in a greedy search manner. To address this problem, we propose CoMFLP, a fast search LP algorithm based on correlation measure. The correlation between layers is computed to generate a correlation matrix, which identifies the redundancy among layers. The search process is carried out in two steps: (1) coarse search: to determine top $K$ candidates by pruning the most redundant layers based on the correlation matrix; (2) fine search: to select the best pruning proposal among $K$ candidates using a task-specific evaluation metric. Experiments on an ASR task show that the pruning proposal determined by CoMFLP outperforms existing LP methods while only requiring constant time complexity. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/louislau1129/CoMFLP. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Multimodal Transformers for Wireless Communications: A Case Study in  Beam Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11811  
**Abstract:** Wireless communications at high-frequency bands with large antenna arrays face challenges in beam management, which can potentially be improved by multimodality sensing information from cameras, LiDAR, radar, and GPS. In this paper, we present a multimodal transformer deep learning framework for sensing-assisted beam prediction. We employ a convolutional neural network to extract the features from a sequence of images, point clouds, and radar raw data sampled over time. At each convolutional layer, we use transformer encoders to learn the hidden relations between feature tokens from different modalities and time instances over abstraction space and produce encoded vectors for the next-level feature extraction. We train the model on a combination of different modalities with supervised learning. We try to enhance the model over imbalanced data by utilizing focal loss and exponential moving average. We also evaluate data processing and augmentation techniques such as image enhancement, segmentation, background filtering, multimodal data flipping, radar signal transformation, and GPS angle calibration. Experimental results show that our solution trained on image and GPS data produces the best distance-based accuracy of predicted beams at 78.44%, with effective generalization to unseen day scenarios near 73% and night scenarios over 84%. This outperforms using other modalities and arbitrary data processing techniques, which demonstrates the effectiveness of transformers with feature fusion in performing radio beam prediction from images and GPS. Furthermore, our solution could be pretrained from large sequences of multimodality wireless data, on fine-tuning for multiple downstream radio network tasks. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Spatial-Temporal Transformer based Video Compression Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11913  
**Abstract:** Learned video compression (LVC) has witnessed remarkable advancements in recent years. Similar as the traditional video coding, LVC inherits motion estimation/compensation, residual coding and other modules, all of which are implemented with neural networks (NNs). However, within the framework of NNs and its training mechanism using gradient backpropagation, most existing works often struggle to consistently generate stable motion information, which is in the form of geometric features, from the input color features. Moreover, the modules such as the inter-prediction and residual coding are independent from each other, making it inefficient to fully reduce the spatial-temporal redundancy. To address the above problems, in this paper, we propose a novel Spatial-Temporal Transformer based Video Compression (STT-VC) framework. It contains a Relaxed Deformable Transformer (RDT) with Uformer based offsets estimation for motion estimation and compensation, a Multi-Granularity Prediction (MGP) module based on multi-reference frames for prediction refinement, and a Spatial Feature Distribution prior based Transformer (SFD-T) for efficient temporal-spatial joint residual compression. Specifically, RDT is developed to stably estimate the motion information between frames by thoroughly investigating the relationship between the similarity based geometric motion feature extraction and self-attention. MGP is designed to fuse the multi-reference frame information by effectively exploring the coarse-grained prediction feature generated with the coded motion information. SFD-T is to compress the residual information by jointly exploring the spatial feature distributions in both residual and temporal prediction to further reduce the spatial-temporal redundancy. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves the best result with 13.5% BD-Rate saving over VTM. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Stock Market Sentiment Classification and Backtesting via Fine-tuned  BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.11979  
**Abstract:** With the rapid development of big data and computing devices, low-latency automatic trading platforms based on real-time information acquisition have become the main components of the stock trading market, so the topic of quantitative trading has received widespread attention. And for non-strongly efficient trading markets, human emotions and expectations always dominate market trends and trading decisions. Therefore, this paper starts from the theory of emotion, taking East Money as an example, crawling user comment titles data from its corresponding stock bar and performing data cleaning. Subsequently, a natural language processing model BERT was constructed, and the BERT model was fine-tuned using existing annotated data sets. The experimental results show that the fine-tuned model has different degrees of performance improvement compared to the original model and the baseline model. Subsequently, based on the above model, the user comment data crawled is labeled with emotional polarity, and the obtained label information is combined with the Alpha191 model to participate in regression, and significant regression results are obtained. Subsequently, the regression model is used to predict the average price change for the next five days, and use it as a signal to guide automatic trading. The experimental results show that the incorporation of emotional factors increased the return rate by 73.8\% compared to the baseline during the trading period, and by 32.41\% compared to the original alpha191 model. Finally, we discuss the advantages and disadvantages of incorporating emotional factors into quantitative trading, and give possible directions for further research in the future. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Convolution and Attention Mixer for Synthetic Aperture Radar Image  Change Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12010  
**Abstract:** Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) image change detection is a critical task and has received increasing attentions in the remote sensing community. However, existing SAR change detection methods are mainly based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs), with limited consideration of global attention mechanism. In this letter, we explore Transformer-like architecture for SAR change detection to incorporate global attention. To this end, we propose a convolution and attention mixer (CAMixer). First, to compensate the inductive bias for Transformer, we combine self-attention with shift convolution in a parallel way. The parallel design effectively captures the global semantic information via the self-attention and performs local feature extraction through shift convolution simultaneously. Second, we adopt a gating mechanism in the feed-forward network to enhance the non-linear feature transformation. The gating mechanism is formulated as the element-wise multiplication of two parallel linear layers. Important features can be highlighted, leading to high-quality representations against speckle noise. Extensive experiments conducted on three SAR datasets verify the superior performance of the proposed CAMixer. The source codes will be publicly available at https://github.com/summitgao/CAMixer . 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Adaptive Input-image Normalization for Solving Mode Collapse Problem in  GAN-based X-ray Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.12245  
**Abstract:** Biomedical image datasets can be imbalanced due to the rarity of targeted diseases. Generative Adversarial Networks play a key role in addressing this imbalance by enabling the generation of synthetic images to augment datasets. It is important to generate synthetic images that incorporate a diverse range of features to accurately represent the distribution of features present in the training imagery. Furthermore, the absence of diverse features in synthetic images can degrade the performance of machine learning classifiers. The mode collapse problem impacts Generative Adversarial Networks' capacity to generate diversified images. Mode collapse comes in two varieties: intra-class and inter-class. In this paper, both varieties of the mode collapse problem are investigated, and their subsequent impact on the diversity of synthetic X-ray images is evaluated. This work contributes an empirical demonstration of the benefits of integrating the adaptive input-image normalization with the Deep Convolutional GAN and Auxiliary Classifier GAN to alleviate the mode collapse problems. Synthetically generated images are utilized for data augmentation and training a Vision Transformer model. The classification performance of the model is evaluated using accuracy, recall, and precision scores. Results demonstrate that the DCGAN and the ACGAN with adaptive input-image normalization outperform the DCGAN and ACGAN with un-normalized X-ray images as evidenced by the superior diversity scores and classification scores. 

