**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Mathematical Modeling and Optimal Control of Untrue Information :  Dynamic SEIZ in Online Social Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13058  
**Abstract:** We propose to model the phenomenon of the spread of a rumor in this paper. We manipulate a model that is based on SEIR model that specializes in spreading rumors. In the second part, we introduce a control strategy to fight against the diffusion of the rumor. Our main objective is to characterize the three optimal controls that minimize the number of spreaders, susceptibles who enter and spread the rumor, and skeptics. For that matter, using the maximum principle of Pontryagin, we prove the existence and give characterization of our controls. To illustrate the theoretical results obtained, numerical simulations are given to concretize our approach. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Beyond Traditional Teaching: The Potential of Large Language Models and  Chatbots in Graduate Engineering Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13059  
**Abstract:** In the rapidly evolving landscape of education, digital technologies have repeatedly disrupted traditional pedagogical methods. This paper explores the latest of these disruptions: the potential integration of large language models (LLMs) and chatbots into graduate engineering education. We begin by tracing historical and technological disruptions to provide context and then introduce key terms such as machine learning and deep learning and the underlying mechanisms of recent advancements, namely attention/transformer models and graphics processing units. The heart of our investigation lies in the application of an LLM-based chatbot in a graduate fluid mechanics course. We developed a question bank from the course material and assessed the chatbot's ability to provide accurate, insightful responses. The results are encouraging, demonstrating not only the bot's ability to effectively answer complex questions but also the potential advantages of chatbot usage in the classroom, such as the promotion of self-paced learning, the provision of instantaneous feedback, and the reduction of instructors' workload. The study also examines the transformative effect of intelligent prompting on enhancing the chatbot's performance. Furthermore, we demonstrate how powerful plugins like Wolfram Alpha for mathematical problem-solving and code interpretation can significantly extend the chatbot's capabilities, transforming it into a comprehensive educational tool. While acknowledging the challenges and ethical implications surrounding the use of such AI models in education, we advocate for a balanced approach. The use of LLMs and chatbots in graduate education can be greatly beneficial but requires ongoing evaluation and adaptation to ensure ethical and efficient use. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Implementing Learning Principles with a Personal AI Tutor: A Case Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13060  
**Abstract:** Effective learning strategies based on principles like personalization, retrieval practice, and spaced repetition are often challenging to implement due to practical constraints. Here we explore the integration of AI tutors to complement learning programs in accordance with learning sciences. A semester-long study was conducted at UniDistance Suisse, where an AI tutor app was provided to psychology students taking a neuroscience course (N=51). After automatically generating microlearning questions from existing course materials using GPT-3, the AI tutor developed a dynamic neural-network model of each student's grasp of key concepts. This enabled the implementation of distributed retrieval practice, personalized to each student's individual level and abilities. The results indicate that students who actively engaged with the AI tutor achieved significantly higher grades. Moreover, active engagement led to an average improvement of up to 15 percentile points compared to a parallel course without AI tutor. Additionally, the grasp strongly correlated with the exam grade, thus validating the relevance of neural-network predictions. This research demonstrates the ability of personal AI tutors to model human learning processes and effectively enhance academic performance. By integrating AI tutors into their programs, educators can offer students personalized learning experiences grounded in the principles of learning sciences, thereby addressing the challenges associated with implementing effective learning strategies. These findings contribute to the growing body of knowledge on the transformative potential of AI in education. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Applying BioBERT to Extract Germline Gene-Disease Associations for  Building a Knowledge Graph from the Biomedical Literature  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13061  
**Abstract:** Published biomedical information has and continues to rapidly increase. The recent advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP), have generated considerable interest in automating the extraction, normalization, and representation of biomedical knowledge about entities such as genes and diseases. Our study analyzes germline abstracts in the construction of knowledge graphs of the of the immense work that has been done in this area for genes and diseases. This paper presents SimpleGermKG, an automatic knowledge graph construction approach that connects germline genes and diseases. For the extraction of genes and diseases, we employ BioBERT, a pre-trained BERT model on biomedical corpora. We propose an ontology-based and rule-based algorithm to standardize and disambiguate medical terms. For semantic relationships between articles, genes, and diseases, we implemented a part-whole relation approach to connect each entity with its data source and visualize them in a graph-based knowledge representation. Lastly, we discuss the knowledge graph applications, limitations, and challenges to inspire the future research of germline corpora. Our knowledge graph contains 297 genes, 130 diseases, and 46,747 triples. Graph-based visualizations are used to show the results. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** SCREWS: A Modular Framework for Reasoning with Revisions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13075  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) can improve their accuracy on various tasks through iteratively refining and revising their output based on feedback. We observe that these revisions can introduce errors, in which case it is better to roll back to a previous result. Further, revisions are typically homogeneous: they use the same reasoning method that produced the initial answer, which may not correct errors. To enable exploration in this space, we present SCREWS, a modular framework for reasoning with revisions. It is comprised of three main modules: Sampling, Conditional Resampling, and Selection, each consisting of sub-modules that can be hand-selected per task. We show that SCREWS not only unifies several previous approaches under a common framework, but also reveals several novel strategies for identifying improved reasoning chains. We evaluate our framework with state-of-the-art LLMs (ChatGPT and GPT-4) on a diverse set of reasoning tasks and uncover useful new reasoning strategies for each: arithmetic word problems, multi-hop question answering, and code debugging. Heterogeneous revision strategies prove to be important, as does selection between original and revised candidates. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** LPML: LLM-Prompting Markup Language for Mathematical Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13078  
**Abstract:** In utilizing large language models (LLMs) for mathematical reasoning, addressing the errors in the reasoning and calculation present in the generated text by LLMs is a crucial challenge. In this paper, we propose a novel framework that integrates the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) method with an external tool (Python REPL). We discovered that by prompting LLMs to generate structured text in XML-like markup language, we could seamlessly integrate CoT and the external tool and control the undesired behaviors of LLMs. With our approach, LLMs can utilize Python computation to rectify errors within CoT. We applied our method to ChatGPT (GPT-3.5) to solve challenging mathematical problems and demonstrated that combining CoT and Python REPL through the markup language enhances the reasoning capability of LLMs. Our approach enables LLMs to write the markup language and perform advanced mathematical reasoning using only zero-shot prompting. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** MiChao-HuaFen 1.0: A Specialized Pre-trained Corpus Dataset for  Domain-specific Large Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13079  
**Abstract:** With the advancement of deep learning technologies, general-purpose large models such as GPT-4 have demonstrated exceptional capabilities across various domains. Nevertheless, there remains a demand for high-quality, domain-specific outputs in areas like healthcare, law, and finance. This paper first evaluates the existing large models for specialized domains and discusses their limitations. To cater to the specific needs of certain domains, we introduce the ``MiChao-HuaFen 1.0'' pre-trained corpus dataset, tailored for the news and governmental sectors. The dataset, sourced from publicly available internet data from 2022, underwent multiple rounds of cleansing and processing to ensure high quality and reliable origins, with provisions for consistent and stable updates. This dataset not only supports the pre-training of large models for Chinese vertical domains but also aids in propelling deep learning research and applications in related fields. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** SPICED: News Similarity Detection Dataset with Multiple Topics and  Complexity Levels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13080  
**Abstract:** Nowadays, the use of intelligent systems to detect redundant information in news articles has become especially prevalent with the proliferation of news media outlets in order to enhance user experience. However, the heterogeneous nature of news can lead to spurious findings in these systems: Simple heuristics such as whether a pair of news are both about politics can provide strong but deceptive downstream performance. Segmenting news similarity datasets into topics improves the training of these models by forcing them to learn how to distinguish salient characteristics under more narrow domains. However, this requires the existence of topic-specific datasets, which are currently lacking. In this article, we propose a new dataset of similar news, SPICED, which includes seven topics: Crime & Law, Culture & Entertainment, Disasters & Accidents, Economy & Business, Politics & Conflicts, Science & Technology, and Sports. Futhermore, we present four distinct approaches for generating news pairs, which are used in the creation of datasets specifically designed for news similarity detection task. We benchmarked the created datasets using MinHash, BERT, SBERT, and SimCSE models. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Computational Natural Philosophy: A Thread from Presocratics through  Turing to ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13094  
**Abstract:** Modern computational natural philosophy conceptualizes the universe in terms of information and computation, establishing a framework for the study of cognition and intelligence. Despite some critiques, this computational perspective has significantly influenced our understanding of the natural world, leading to the development of AI systems like ChatGPT based on deep neural networks. Advancements in this domain have been facilitated by interdisciplinary research, integrating knowledge from multiple fields to simulate complex systems. Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, represent this approach's capabilities, utilizing reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF). Current research initiatives aim to integrate neural networks with symbolic computing, introducing a new generation of hybrid computational models. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Zero-Shot Object Counting with Language-Vision Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13097  
**Abstract:** Class-agnostic object counting aims to count object instances of an arbitrary class at test time. It is challenging but also enables many potential applications. Current methods require human-annotated exemplars as inputs which are often unavailable for novel categories, especially for autonomous systems. Thus, we propose zero-shot object counting (ZSC), a new setting where only the class name is available during test time. This obviates the need for human annotators and enables automated operation. To perform ZSC, we propose finding a few object crops from the input image and use them as counting exemplars. The goal is to identify patches containing the objects of interest while also being visually representative for all instances in the image. To do this, we first construct class prototypes using large language-vision models, including CLIP and Stable Diffusion, to select the patches containing the target objects. Furthermore, we propose a ranking model that estimates the counting error of each patch to select the most suitable exemplars for counting. Experimental results on a recent class-agnostic counting dataset, FSC-147, validate the effectiveness of our method. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Topological Data Mapping of Online Hate Speech, Misinformation, and  General Mental Health: A Large Language Model Based Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13098  
**Abstract:** The advent of social media has led to an increased concern over its potential to propagate hate speech and misinformation, which, in addition to contributing to prejudice and discrimination, has been suspected of playing a role in increasing social violence and crimes in the United States. While literature has shown the existence of an association between posting hate speech and misinformation online and certain personality traits of posters, the general relationship and relevance of online hate speech/misinformation in the context of overall psychological wellbeing of posters remain elusive. One difficulty lies in the lack of adequate data analytics tools capable of adequately analyzing the massive amount of social media posts to uncover the underlying hidden links. Recent progresses in machine learning and large language models such as ChatGPT have made such an analysis possible. In this study, we collected thousands of posts from carefully selected communities on the social media site Reddit. We then utilized OpenAI's GPT3 to derive embeddings of these posts, which are high-dimensional real-numbered vectors that presumably represent the hidden semantics of posts. We then performed various machine-learning classifications based on these embeddings in order to understand the role of hate speech/misinformation in various communities. Finally, a topological data analysis (TDA) was applied to the embeddings to obtain a visual map connecting online hate speech, misinformation, various psychiatric disorders, and general mental health. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Contextual Emotion Estimation from Image Captions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13136  
**Abstract:** Emotion estimation in images is a challenging task, typically using computer vision methods to directly estimate people's emotions using face, body pose and contextual cues. In this paper, we explore whether Large Language Models (LLMs) can support the contextual emotion estimation task, by first captioning images, then using an LLM for inference. First, we must understand: how well do LLMs perceive human emotions? And which parts of the information enable them to determine emotions? One initial challenge is to construct a caption that describes a person within a scene with information relevant for emotion perception. Towards this goal, we propose a set of natural language descriptors for faces, bodies, interactions, and environments. We use them to manually generate captions and emotion annotations for a subset of 331 images from the EMOTIC dataset. These captions offer an interpretable representation for emotion estimation, towards understanding how elements of a scene affect emotion perception in LLMs and beyond. Secondly, we test the capability of a large language model to infer an emotion from the resulting image captions. We find that GPT-3.5, specifically the text-davinci-003 model, provides surprisingly reasonable emotion predictions consistent with human annotations, but accuracy can depend on the emotion concept. Overall, the results suggest promise in the image captioning and LLM approach. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Trading-off Mutual Information on Feature Aggregation for Face  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13137  
**Abstract:** Despite the advances in the field of Face Recognition (FR), the precision of these methods is not yet sufficient. To improve the FR performance, this paper proposes a technique to aggregate the outputs of two state-of-the-art (SOTA) deep FR models, namely ArcFace and AdaFace. In our approach, we leverage the transformer attention mechanism to exploit the relationship between different parts of two feature maps. By doing so, we aim to enhance the overall discriminative power of the FR system. One of the challenges in feature aggregation is the effective modeling of both local and global dependencies. Conventional transformers are known for their ability to capture long-range dependencies, but they often struggle with modeling local dependencies accurately. To address this limitation, we augment the self-attention mechanism to capture both local and global dependencies effectively. This allows our model to take advantage of the overlapping receptive fields present in corresponding locations of the feature maps. However, fusing two feature maps from different FR models might introduce redundancies to the face embedding. Since these models often share identical backbone architectures, the resulting feature maps may contain overlapping information, which can mislead the training process. To overcome this problem, we leverage the principle of Information Bottleneck to obtain a maximally informative facial representation. This ensures that the aggregated features retain the most relevant and discriminative information while minimizing redundant or misleading details. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we conducted experiments on popular benchmarks and compared our results with state-of-the-art algorithms. The consistent improvement we observed in these benchmarks demonstrates the efficacy of our approach in enhancing FR performance. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** GAMIX-VAE: A VAE with Gaussian Mixture Based Posterior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13160  
**Abstract:** Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) have become a cornerstone in generative modeling and representation learning within machine learning. This paper explores a nuanced aspect of VAEs, focusing on interpreting the Kullback Leibler (KL) Divergence, a critical component within the Evidence Lower Bound (ELBO) that governs the trade-off between reconstruction accuracy and regularization. While the KL Divergence enforces alignment between latent variable distributions and a prior imposing a structure on the overall latent space but leaves individual variable distributions unconstrained. The proposed method redefines the ELBO with a mixture of Gaussians for the posterior probability, introduces a regularization term to prevent variance collapse, and employs a PatchGAN discriminator to enhance texture realism. Implementation details involve ResNetV2 architectures for both the Encoder and Decoder. The experiments demonstrate the ability to generate realistic faces, offering a promising solution for enhancing VAE based generative models. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Large Language Models Are Also Good Prototypical Commonsense Reasoners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13165  
**Abstract:** Commonsense reasoning is a pivotal skill for large language models, yet it presents persistent challenges in specific tasks requiring this competence. Traditional fine-tuning approaches can be resource-intensive and potentially compromise a model's generalization capacity. Furthermore, state-of-the-art language models like GPT-3.5 and Claude are primarily accessible through API calls, which makes fine-tuning models challenging. To address these challenges, we draw inspiration from the outputs of large models for tailored tasks and semi-automatically developed a set of novel prompts from several perspectives, including task-relevance, supportive evidence generation (e.g. chain-of-thought and knowledge), diverse path decoding to aid the model. Experimental results on ProtoQA dataset demonstrate that with better designed prompts we can achieve the new state-of-art(SOTA) on the ProtoQA leaderboard, improving the Max Answer@1 score by 8%, Max Incorrect@1 score by 4% (breakthrough 50% for the first time) compared to the previous SOTA model and achieved an improvement on StrategyQA and CommonsenseQA2.0 (3% and 1%, respectively). Furthermore, with the generated Chain-of-Thought and knowledge, we can improve the interpretability of the model while also surpassing the previous SOTA models. We hope that our work can provide insight for the NLP community to develop better prompts and explore the potential of large language models for more complex reasoning tasks. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Invisible Watermarking for Audio Generation Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13166  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have gained prominence in the image domain for their capabilities in data generation and transformation, achieving state-of-the-art performance in various tasks in both image and audio domains. In the rapidly evolving field of audio-based machine learning, safeguarding model integrity and establishing data copyright are of paramount importance. This paper presents the first watermarking technique applied to audio diffusion models trained on mel-spectrograms. This offers a novel approach to the aforementioned challenges. Our model excels not only in benign audio generation, but also incorporates an invisible watermarking trigger mechanism for model verification. This watermark trigger serves as a protective layer, enabling the identification of model ownership and ensuring its integrity. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that invisible watermark triggers can effectively protect against unauthorized modifications while maintaining high utility in benign audio generation tasks. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Investigating Efficient Deep Learning Architectures For Side-Channel  Attacks on AES  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13170  
**Abstract:** Over the past few years, deep learning has been getting progressively more popular for the exploitation of side-channel vulnerabilities in embedded cryptographic applications, as it offers advantages in terms of the amount of attack traces required for effective key recovery. A number of effective attacks using neural networks have already been published, but reducing their cost in terms of the amount of computing resources and data required is an ever-present goal, which we pursue in this work. We focus on the ANSSI Side-Channel Attack Database (ASCAD), and produce a JAX-based framework for deep-learning-based SCA, with which we reproduce a selection of previous results and build upon them in an attempt to improve their performance. We also investigate the effectiveness of various Transformer-based models. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** BenLLMEval: A Comprehensive Evaluation into the Potentials and Pitfalls  of Large Language Models on Bengali NLP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13173  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as one of the most important breakthroughs in natural language processing (NLP) for their impressive skills in language generation and other language-specific tasks. Though LLMs have been evaluated in various tasks, mostly in English, they have not yet undergone thorough evaluation in under-resourced languages such as Bengali (Bangla). In this paper, we evaluate the performance of LLMs for the low-resourced Bangla language. We select various important and diverse Bangla NLP tasks, such as abstractive summarization, question answering, paraphrasing, natural language inference, text classification, and sentiment analysis for zero-shot evaluation with ChatGPT, LLaMA-2, and Claude-2 and compare the performance with state-of-the-art fine-tuned models. Our experimental results demonstrate an inferior performance of LLMs for different Bangla NLP tasks, calling for further effort to develop better understanding of LLMs in low-resource languages like Bangla. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Document Understanding for Healthcare Referrals  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13184  
**Abstract:** Reliance on scanned documents and fax communication for healthcare referrals leads to high administrative costs and errors that may affect patient care. In this work we propose a hybrid model leveraging LayoutLMv3 along with domain-specific rules to identify key patient, physician, and exam-related entities in faxed referral documents. We explore some of the challenges in applying a document understanding model to referrals, which have formats varying by medical practice, and evaluate model performance using MUC-5 metrics to obtain appropriate metrics for the practical use case. Our analysis shows the addition of domain-specific rules to the transformer model yields greatly increased precision and F1 scores, suggesting a hybrid model trained on a curated dataset can increase efficiency in referral management. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** ClusterFormer: Clustering As A Universal Visual Learner  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13196  
**Abstract:** This paper presents CLUSTERFORMER, a universal vision model that is based on the CLUSTERing paradigm with TransFORMER. It comprises two novel designs: 1. recurrent cross-attention clustering, which reformulates the cross-attention mechanism in Transformer and enables recursive updates of cluster centers to facilitate strong representation learning; and 2. feature dispatching, which uses the updated cluster centers to redistribute image features through similarity-based metrics, resulting in a transparent pipeline. This elegant design streamlines an explainable and transferable workflow, capable of tackling heterogeneous vision tasks (i.e., image classification, object detection, and image segmentation) with varying levels of clustering granularity (i.e., image-, box-, and pixel-level). Empirical results demonstrate that CLUSTERFORMER outperforms various well-known specialized architectures, achieving 83.41% top-1 acc. over ImageNet-1K for image classification, 54.2% and 47.0% mAP over MS COCO for object detection and instance segmentation, 52.4% mIoU over ADE20K for semantic segmentation, and 55.8% PQ over COCO Panoptic for panoptic segmentation. For its efficacy, we hope our work can catalyze a paradigm shift in universal models in computer vision. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Large Language Models and Control Mechanisms Improve Text Readability of  Biomedical Abstracts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13202  
**Abstract:** Biomedical literature often uses complex language and inaccessible professional terminologies. That is why simplification plays an important role in improving public health literacy. Applying Natural Language Processing (NLP) models to automate such tasks allows for quick and direct accessibility for lay readers. In this work, we investigate the ability of state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) on the task of biomedical abstract simplification, using the publicly available dataset for plain language adaptation of biomedical abstracts (\textbf{PLABA}). The methods applied include domain fine-tuning and prompt-based learning (PBL) on: 1) Encoder-decoder models (T5, SciFive, and BART), 2) Decoder-only GPT models (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) from OpenAI and BioGPT, and 3) Control-token mechanisms on BART-based models. We used a range of automatic evaluation metrics, including BLEU, ROUGE, SARI, and BERTscore, and also conducted human evaluations. BART-Large with Control Token (BART-L-w-CT) mechanisms reported the highest SARI score of 46.54 and T5-base reported the highest BERTscore 72.62. In human evaluation, BART-L-w-CTs achieved a better simplicity score over T5-Base (2.9 vs. 2.2), while T5-Base achieved a better meaning preservation score over BART-L-w-CTs (3.1 vs. 2.6). We also categorised the system outputs with examples, hoping this will shed some light for future research on this task. Our code, fine-tuned models, and data splits are available at \url{https://github.com/HECTA-UoM/PLABA-MU} 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** MISFIT-V: Misaligned Image Synthesis and Fusion using Information from  Thermal and Visual  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13216  
**Abstract:** Detecting humans from airborne visual and thermal imagery is a fundamental challenge for Wilderness Search-and-Rescue (WiSAR) teams, who must perform this function accurately in the face of immense pressure. The ability to fuse these two sensor modalities can potentially reduce the cognitive load on human operators and/or improve the effectiveness of computer vision object detection models. However, the fusion task is particularly challenging in the context of WiSAR due to hardware limitations and extreme environmental factors. This work presents Misaligned Image Synthesis and Fusion using Information from Thermal and Visual (MISFIT-V), a novel two-pronged unsupervised deep learning approach that utilizes a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) and a cross-attention mechanism to capture the most relevant features from each modality. Experimental results show MISFIT-V offers enhanced robustness against misalignment and poor lighting/thermal environmental conditions compared to existing visual-thermal image fusion methods. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Hindi to English: Transformer-Based Neural Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13222  
**Abstract:** Machine Translation (MT) is one of the most prominent tasks in Natural Language Processing (NLP) which involves the automatic conversion of texts from one natural language to another while preserving its meaning and fluency. Although the research in machine translation has been going on since multiple decades, the newer approach of integrating deep learning techniques in natural language processing has led to significant improvements in the translation quality. In this paper, we have developed a Neural Machine Translation (NMT) system by training the Transformer model to translate texts from Indian Language Hindi to English. Hindi being a low resource language has made it difficult for neural networks to understand the language thereby leading to a slow growth in the development of neural machine translators. Thus, to address this gap, we implemented back-translation to augment the training data and for creating the vocabulary, we experimented with both word and subword level tokenization using Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) thereby ending up training the Transformer in 10 different configurations. This led us to achieve a state-of-the-art BLEU score of 24.53 on the test set of IIT Bombay English-Hindi Corpus in one of the configurations. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Spatial-Temporal Knowledge-Embedded Transformer for Video Scene Graph  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13237  
**Abstract:** Video scene graph generation (VidSGG) aims to identify objects in visual scenes and infer their relationships for a given video. It requires not only a comprehensive understanding of each object scattered on the whole scene but also a deep dive into their temporal motions and interactions. Inherently, object pairs and their relationships enjoy spatial co-occurrence correlations within each image and temporal consistency/transition correlations across different images, which can serve as prior knowledge to facilitate VidSGG model learning and inference. In this work, we propose a spatial-temporal knowledge-embedded transformer (STKET) that incorporates the prior spatial-temporal knowledge into the multi-head cross-attention mechanism to learn more representative relationship representations. Specifically, we first learn spatial co-occurrence and temporal transition correlations in a statistical manner. Then, we design spatial and temporal knowledge-embedded layers that introduce the multi-head cross-attention mechanism to fully explore the interaction between visual representation and the knowledge to generate spatial- and temporal-embedded representations, respectively. Finally, we aggregate these representations for each subject-object pair to predict the final semantic labels and their relationships. Extensive experiments show that STKET outperforms current competing algorithms by a large margin, e.g., improving the mR@50 by 8.1%, 4.7%, and 2.1% on different settings over current algorithms. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** NeRF-Enhanced Outpainting for Faithful Field-of-View Extrapolation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13240  
**Abstract:** In various applications, such as robotic navigation and remote visual assistance, expanding the field of view (FOV) of the camera proves beneficial for enhancing environmental perception. Unlike image outpainting techniques aimed solely at generating aesthetically pleasing visuals, these applications demand an extended view that faithfully represents the scene. To achieve this, we formulate a new problem of faithful FOV extrapolation that utilizes a set of pre-captured images as prior knowledge of the scene. To address this problem, we present a simple yet effective solution called NeRF-Enhanced Outpainting (NEO) that uses extended-FOV images generated through NeRF to train a scene-specific image outpainting model. To assess the performance of NEO, we conduct comprehensive evaluations on three photorealistic datasets and one real-world dataset. Extensive experiments on the benchmark datasets showcase the robustness and potential of our method in addressing this challenge. We believe our work lays a strong foundation for future exploration within the research community. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** UniHead: Unifying Multi-Perception for Detection Heads  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13242  
**Abstract:** The detection head constitutes a pivotal component within object detectors, tasked with executing both classification and localization functions. Regrettably, the commonly used parallel head often lacks omni perceptual capabilities, such as deformation perception, global perception and cross-task perception. Despite numerous methods attempt to enhance these abilities from a single aspect, achieving a comprehensive and unified solution remains a significant challenge. In response to this challenge, we have developed an innovative detection head, termed UniHead, to unify three perceptual abilities simultaneously. More precisely, our approach (1) introduces deformation perception, enabling the model to adaptively sample object features; (2) proposes a Dual-axial Aggregation Transformer (DAT) to adeptly model long-range dependencies, thereby achieving global perception; and (3) devises a Cross-task Interaction Transformer (CIT) that facilitates interaction between the classification and localization branches, thus aligning the two tasks. As a plug-and-play method, the proposed UniHead can be conveniently integrated with existing detectors. Extensive experiments on the COCO dataset demonstrate that our UniHead can bring significant improvements to many detectors. For instance, the UniHead can obtain +2.7 AP gains in RetinaNet, +2.9 AP gains in FreeAnchor, and +2.1 AP gains in GFL. The code will be publicly available. Code Url: https://github.com/zht8506/UniHead. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** ChEDDAR: Student-ChatGPT Dialogue in EFL Writing Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13243  
**Abstract:** The integration of generative AI in education is expanding, yet empirical analyses of large-scale, real-world interactions between students and AI systems still remain limited. In this study, we present ChEDDAR, ChatGPT & EFL Learner's Dialogue Dataset As Revising an essay, which is collected from a semester-long longitudinal experiment involving 212 college students enrolled in English as Foreign Langauge (EFL) writing courses. The students were asked to revise their essays through dialogues with ChatGPT. ChEDDAR includes a conversation log, utterance-level essay edit history, self-rated satisfaction, and students' intent, in addition to session-level pre-and-post surveys documenting their objectives and overall experiences. We analyze students' usage patterns and perceptions regarding generative AI with respect to their intent and satisfaction. As a foundational step, we establish baseline results for two pivotal tasks in task-oriented dialogue systems within educational contexts: intent detection and satisfaction estimation. We finally suggest further research to refine the integration of generative AI into education settings, outlining potential scenarios utilizing ChEDDAR. ChEDDAR is publicly available at https://github.com/zeunie/ChEDDAR. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** RBFormer: Improve Adversarial Robustness of Transformer by Robust Bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13245  
**Abstract:** Recently, there has been a surge of interest and attention in Transformer-based structures, such as Vision Transformer (ViT) and Vision Multilayer Perceptron (VMLP). Compared with the previous convolution-based structures, the Transformer-based structure under investigation showcases a comparable or superior performance under its distinctive attention-based input token mixer strategy. Introducing adversarial examples as a robustness consideration has had a profound and detrimental impact on the performance of well-established convolution-based structures. This inherent vulnerability to adversarial attacks has also been demonstrated in Transformer-based structures. In this paper, our emphasis lies on investigating the intrinsic robustness of the structure rather than introducing novel defense measures against adversarial attacks. To address the susceptibility to robustness issues, we employ a rational structure design approach to mitigate such vulnerabilities. Specifically, we enhance the adversarial robustness of the structure by increasing the proportion of high-frequency structural robust biases. As a result, we introduce a novel structure called Robust Bias Transformer-based Structure (RBFormer) that shows robust superiority compared to several existing baseline structures. Through a series of extensive experiments, RBFormer outperforms the original structures by a significant margin, achieving an impressive improvement of +16.12% and +5.04% across different evaluation criteria on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet-1k, respectively. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** GLOBER: Coherent Non-autoregressive Video Generation via GLOBal Guided  Video DecodER  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13274  
**Abstract:** Video generation necessitates both global coherence and local realism. This work presents a novel non-autoregressive method GLOBER, which first generates global features to obtain comprehensive global guidance and then synthesizes video frames based on the global features to generate coherent videos. Specifically, we propose a video auto-encoder, where a video encoder encodes videos into global features, and a video decoder, built on a diffusion model, decodes the global features and synthesizes video frames in a non-autoregressive manner. To achieve maximum flexibility, our video decoder perceives temporal information through normalized frame indexes, which enables it to synthesize arbitrary sub video clips with predetermined starting and ending frame indexes. Moreover, a novel adversarial loss is introduced to improve the global coherence and local realism between the synthesized video frames. Finally, we employ a diffusion-based video generator to fit the global features outputted by the video encoder for video generation. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed method, and new state-of-the-art results have been achieved on multiple benchmarks. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Automatic Reverse Engineering: Creating computer-aided design (CAD)  models from multi-view images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13281  
**Abstract:** Generation of computer-aided design (CAD) models from multi-view images may be useful in many practical applications. To date, this problem is usually solved with an intermediate point-cloud reconstruction and involves manual work to create the final CAD models. In this contribution, we present a novel network for an automated reverse engineering task. Our network architecture combines three distinct stages: A convolutional neural network as the encoder stage, a multi-view pooling stage and a transformer-based CAD sequence generator. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** C$^2$VAE: Gaussian Copula-based VAE Differing Disentangled from Coupled  Representations with Contrastive Posterior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13303  
**Abstract:** We present a self-supervised variational autoencoder (VAE) to jointly learn disentangled and dependent hidden factors and then enhance disentangled representation learning by a self-supervised classifier to eliminate coupled representations in a contrastive manner. To this end, a Contrastive Copula VAE (C$^2$VAE) is introduced without relying on prior knowledge about data in the probabilistic principle and involving strong modeling assumptions on the posterior in the neural architecture. C$^2$VAE simultaneously factorizes the posterior (evidence lower bound, ELBO) with total correlation (TC)-driven decomposition for learning factorized disentangled representations and extracts the dependencies between hidden features by a neural Gaussian copula for copula coupled representations. Then, a self-supervised contrastive classifier differentiates the disentangled representations from the coupled representations, where a contrastive loss regularizes this contrastive classification together with the TC loss for eliminating entangled factors and strengthening disentangled representations. C$^2$VAE demonstrates a strong effect in enhancing disentangled representation learning. C$^2$VAE further contributes to improved optimization addressing the TC-based VAE instability and the trade-off between reconstruction and representation. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** High order approximation to Caputo derivative on graded mesh and  time-fractional diffusion equation for non-smooth solutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13316  
**Abstract:** In this paper, a high-order approximation to Caputo-type time-fractional diffusion equations involving an initial-time singularity of the solution is proposed. At first, we employ a numerical algorithm based on the Lagrange polynomial interpolation to approximate the Caputo derivative on the non-uniform mesh. Then truncation error rate and the optimal grading constant of the approximation on a graded mesh are obtained as $\min\{4-\alpha,r\alpha\}$ and $\frac{4-\alpha}{\alpha}$, respectively, where $\alpha\in(0,1)$ is the order of fractional derivative and $r\geq 1$ is the mesh grading parameter. Using this new approximation, a difference scheme for the Caputo-type time-fractional diffusion equation on graded temporal mesh is formulated. The scheme proves to be uniquely solvable for general $r$. Then we derive the unconditional stability of the scheme on uniform mesh. The convergence of the scheme, in particular for $r=1$, is analyzed for non-smooth solutions and concluded for smooth solutions. Finally, the accuracy of the scheme is verified by analyzing the error through a few numerical examples. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** GlotScript: A Resource and Tool for Low Resource Writing System  Identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13320  
**Abstract:** We present GlotScript, an open resource and tool for low resource writing system identification. GlotScript-R is a resource that provides the attested writing systems for more than 7,000 languages. It is compiled by aggregating information from existing writing system resources. GlotScript-T is a writing system identification tool that covers all 161 Unicode 15.0 scripts. For an input text, it returns its script distribution where scripts are identified by ISO 15924 codes. We also present two use cases for GlotScript. First, we demonstrate that GlotScript supports cleaning multilingual corpora such as mC4 and OSCAR. Second, we analyze the tokenization of a number of language models such as GPT-4 using GlotScript and provide insights on the coverage of low resource scripts and languages by each language model. We hope that GlotScript will become a useful resource for work on low resource languages in the NLP community. GlotScript-R and GlotScript-T are available at https://github.com/cisnlp/GlotScript. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** LLMs as Counterfactual Explanation Modules: Can ChatGPT Explain  Black-box Text Classifiers?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13340  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly being used for tasks beyond text generation, including complex tasks such as data labeling, information extraction, etc. With the recent surge in research efforts to comprehend the full extent of LLM capabilities, in this work, we investigate the role of LLMs as counterfactual explanation modules, to explain decisions of black-box text classifiers. Inspired by causal thinking, we propose a pipeline for using LLMs to generate post-hoc, model-agnostic counterfactual explanations in a principled way via (i) leveraging the textual understanding capabilities of the LLM to identify and extract latent features, and (ii) leveraging the perturbation and generation capabilities of the same LLM to generate a counterfactual explanation by perturbing input features derived from the extracted latent features. We evaluate three variants of our framework, with varying degrees of specificity, on a suite of state-of-the-art LLMs, including ChatGPT and LLaMA 2. We evaluate the effectiveness and quality of the generated counterfactual explanations, over a variety of text classification benchmarks. Our results show varied performance of these models in different settings, with a full two-step feature extraction based variant outperforming others in most cases. Our pipeline can be used in automated explanation systems, potentially reducing human effort. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Beyond Grids: Exploring Elastic Input Sampling for Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13353  
**Abstract:** Vision transformers have excelled in various computer vision tasks but mostly rely on rigid input sampling using a fixed-size grid of patches. This limits their applicability in real-world problems, such as in the field of robotics and UAVs, where one can utilize higher input elasticity to boost model performance and efficiency. Our paper addresses this limitation by formalizing the concept of input elasticity for vision transformers and introducing an evaluation protocol, including dedicated metrics for measuring input elasticity. Moreover, we propose modifications to the transformer architecture and training regime, which increase its elasticity. Through extensive experimentation, we spotlight opportunities and challenges associated with input sampling strategies. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Lexical Squad@Multimodal Hate Speech Event Detection 2023: Multimodal  Hate Speech Detection using Fused Ensemble Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13354  
**Abstract:** With a surge in the usage of social media postings to express opinions, emotions, and ideologies, there has been a significant shift towards the calibration of social media as a rapid medium of conveying viewpoints and outlooks over the globe. Concurrently, the emergence of a multitude of conflicts between two entities has given rise to a stream of social media content containing propaganda, hate speech, and inconsiderate views. Thus, the issue of monitoring social media postings is rising swiftly, attracting major attention from those willing to solve such problems. One such problem is Hate Speech detection. To mitigate this problem, we present our novel ensemble learning approach for detecting hate speech, by classifying text-embedded images into two labels, namely "Hate Speech" and "No Hate Speech". We have incorporated state-of-art models including InceptionV3, BERT, and XLNet. Our proposed ensemble model yielded promising results with 75.21 and 74.96 as accuracy and F-1 score (respectively). We also present an empirical evaluation of the text-embedded images to elaborate on how well the model was able to predict and classify. We release our codebase here (https://github.com/M0hammad-Kashif/MultiModalHateSpeech). 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Asca: less audio data is more insightful  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13373  
**Abstract:** Audio recognition in specialized areas such as birdsong and submarine acoustics faces challenges in large-scale pre-training due to the limitations in available samples imposed by sampling environments and specificity requirements. While the Transformer model excels in audio recognition, its dependence on vast amounts of data becomes restrictive in resource-limited settings. Addressing this, we introduce the Audio Spectrogram Convolution Attention (ASCA) based on CoAtNet, integrating a Transformer-convolution hybrid architecture, novel network design, and attention techniques, further augmented with data enhancement and regularization strategies. On the BirdCLEF2023 and AudioSet(Balanced), ASCA achieved accuracies of 81.2% and 35.1%, respectively, significantly outperforming competing methods. The unique structure of our model enriches output, enabling generalization across various audio detection tasks. Our code can be found at https://github.com/LeeCiang/ASCA. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Dream the Impossible: Outlier Imagination with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13415  
**Abstract:** Utilizing auxiliary outlier datasets to regularize the machine learning model has demonstrated promise for out-of-distribution (OOD) detection and safe prediction. Due to the labor intensity in data collection and cleaning, automating outlier data generation has been a long-desired alternative. Despite the appeal, generating photo-realistic outliers in the high dimensional pixel space has been an open challenge for the field. To tackle the problem, this paper proposes a new framework DREAM-OOD, which enables imagining photo-realistic outliers by way of diffusion models, provided with only the in-distribution (ID) data and classes. Specifically, DREAM-OOD learns a text-conditioned latent space based on ID data, and then samples outliers in the low-likelihood region via the latent, which can be decoded into images by the diffusion model. Different from prior works, DREAM-OOD enables visualizing and understanding the imagined outliers, directly in the pixel space. We conduct comprehensive quantitative and qualitative studies to understand the efficacy of DREAM-OOD, and show that training with the samples generated by DREAM-OOD can benefit OOD detection performance. Code is publicly available at https://github.com/deeplearning-wisc/dream-ood. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** A Chat About Boring Problems: Studying GPT-based text normalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13426  
**Abstract:** Text normalization - the conversion of text from written to spoken form - is traditionally assumed to be an ill-formed task for language models. In this work, we argue otherwise. We empirically show the capacity of Large-Language Models (LLM) for text normalization in few-shot scenarios. Combining self-consistency reasoning with linguistic-informed prompt engineering, we find LLM based text normalization to achieve error rates around 40\% lower than top normalization systems. Further, upon error analysis, we note key limitations in the conventional design of text normalization tasks. We create a new taxonomy of text normalization errors and apply it to results from GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4.0. Through this new framework, we can identify strengths and weaknesses of GPT-based TN, opening opportunities for future work. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Edge Aware Learning for 3D Point Cloud  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13472  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes an innovative approach to Hierarchical Edge Aware 3D Point Cloud Learning (HEA-Net) that seeks to address the challenges of noise in point cloud data, and improve object recognition and segmentation by focusing on edge features. In this study, we present an innovative edge-aware learning methodology, specifically designed to enhance point cloud classification and segmentation. Drawing inspiration from the human visual system, the concept of edge-awareness has been incorporated into this methodology, contributing to improved object recognition while simultaneously reducing computational time. Our research has led to the development of an advanced 3D point cloud learning framework that effectively manages object classification and segmentation tasks. A unique fusion of local and global network learning paradigms has been employed, enriched by edge-focused local and global embeddings, thereby significantly augmenting the model's interpretative prowess. Further, we have applied a hierarchical transformer architecture to boost point cloud processing efficiency, thus providing nuanced insights into structural understanding. Our approach demonstrates significant promise in managing noisy point cloud data and highlights the potential of edge-aware strategies in 3D point cloud learning. The proposed approach is shown to outperform existing techniques in object classification and segmentation tasks, as demonstrated by experiments on ModelNet40 and ShapeNet datasets. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Hierarchical attention interpretation: an interpretable speech-level  transformer for bi-modal depression detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13476  
**Abstract:** Depression is a common mental disorder. Automatic depression detection tools using speech, enabled by machine learning, help early screening of depression. This paper addresses two limitations that may hinder the clinical implementations of such tools: noise resulting from segment-level labelling and a lack of model interpretability. We propose a bi-modal speech-level transformer to avoid segment-level labelling and introduce a hierarchical interpretation approach to provide both speech-level and sentence-level interpretations, based on gradient-weighted attention maps derived from all attention layers to track interactions between input features. We show that the proposed model outperforms a model that learns at a segment level ($p$=0.854, $r$=0.947, $F1$=0.947 compared to $p$=0.732, $r$=0.808, $F1$=0.768). For model interpretation, using one true positive sample, we show which sentences within a given speech are most relevant to depression detection; and which text tokens and Mel-spectrogram regions within these sentences are most relevant to depression detection. These interpretations allow clinicians to verify the validity of predictions made by depression detection tools, promoting their clinical implementations. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Bridging Semantic Gaps for Language-Supervised Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13505  
**Abstract:** Vision-Language Pre-training has demonstrated its remarkable zero-shot recognition ability and potential to learn generalizable visual representations from language supervision. Taking a step ahead, language-supervised semantic segmentation enables spatial localization of textual inputs by learning pixel grouping solely from image-text pairs. Nevertheless, the state-of-the-art suffers from clear semantic gaps between visual and textual modality: plenty of visual concepts appeared in images are missing in their paired captions. Such semantic misalignment circulates in pre-training, leading to inferior zero-shot performance in dense predictions due to insufficient visual concepts captured in textual representations. To close such semantic gap, we propose Concept Curation (CoCu), a pipeline that leverages CLIP to compensate for the missing semantics. For each image-text pair, we establish a concept archive that maintains potential visually-matched concepts with our proposed vision-driven expansion and text-to-vision-guided ranking. Relevant concepts can thus be identified via cluster-guided sampling and fed into pre-training, thereby bridging the gap between visual and textual semantics. Extensive experiments over a broad suite of 8 segmentation benchmarks show that CoCu achieves superb zero-shot transfer performance and greatly boosts language-supervised segmentation baseline by a large margin, suggesting the value of bridging semantic gap in pre-training data. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Global-correlated 3D-decoupling Transformer for Clothed Avatar  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13524  
**Abstract:** Reconstructing 3D clothed human avatars from single images is a challenging task, especially when encountering complex poses and loose clothing. Current methods exhibit limitations in performance, largely attributable to their dependence on insufficient 2D image features and inconsistent query methods. Owing to this, we present the Global-correlated 3D-decoupling Transformer for clothed Avatar reconstruction (GTA), a novel transformer-based architecture that reconstructs clothed human avatars from monocular images. Our approach leverages transformer architectures by utilizing a Vision Transformer model as an encoder for capturing global-correlated image features. Subsequently, our innovative 3D-decoupling decoder employs cross-attention to decouple tri-plane features, using learnable embeddings as queries for cross-plane generation. To effectively enhance feature fusion with the tri-plane 3D feature and human body prior, we propose a hybrid prior fusion strategy combining spatial and prior-enhanced queries, leveraging the benefits of spatial localization and human body prior knowledge. Comprehensive experiments on CAPE and THuman2.0 datasets illustrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in both geometry and texture reconstruction, exhibiting high robustness to challenging poses and loose clothing, and producing higher-resolution textures. Codes will be available at https://github.com/River-Zhang/GTA. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** MentalLLaMA: Interpretable Mental Health Analysis on Social Media with  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13567  
**Abstract:** With the development of web technology, social media texts are becoming a rich source for automatic mental health analysis. As traditional discriminative methods bear the problem of low interpretability, the recent large language models have been explored for interpretable mental health analysis on social media, which aims to provide detailed explanations along with predictions. The results show that ChatGPT can generate approaching-human explanations for its correct classifications. However, LLMs still achieve unsatisfactory classification performance in a zero-shot/few-shot manner. Domain-specific finetuning is an effective solution, but faces 2 challenges: 1) lack of high-quality training data. 2) no open-source LLMs for interpretable mental health analysis were released to lower the finetuning cost. To alleviate these problems, we build the first multi-task and multi-source interpretable mental health instruction (IMHI) dataset on social media, with 105K data samples. The raw social media data are collected from 10 existing sources covering 8 mental health analysis tasks. We use expert-written few-shot prompts and collected labels to prompt ChatGPT and obtain explanations from its responses. To ensure the reliability of the explanations, we perform strict automatic and human evaluations on the correctness, consistency, and quality of generated data. Based on the IMHI dataset and LLaMA2 foundation models, we train MentalLLaMA, the first open-source LLM series for interpretable mental health analysis with instruction-following capability. We also evaluate the performance of MentalLLaMA on the IMHI evaluation benchmark with 10 test sets, where their correctness for making predictions and the quality of explanations are examined. The results show that MentalLLaMA approaches state-of-the-art discriminative methods in correctness and generates high-quality explanations. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Towards Subcentimeter Accuracy Digital-Twin Tracking via An RGBD-based  Transformer Model and A Comprehensive Mobile Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13570  
**Abstract:** The potential of digital twin technology, involving the creation of precise digital replicas of physical objects, to reshape AR experiences in 3D object tracking and localization scenarios is significant. However, enabling 3D object tracking with subcentimeter accuracy in dynamic mobile AR environments remains a formidable challenge. These scenarios often require a more robust pose estimator capable of handling the inherent sensor-level measurement noise. In this paper, recognizing the absence of comprehensive solutions in existing literature, we build upon our previous work, the Digital Twin Tracking Dataset (DTTD), to address these challenges in mobile AR settings. Specifically, we propose a transformer-based 6DoF pose estimator designed to withstand the challenges posed by noisy depth data. Simultaneously, we introduce a novel RGBD dataset captured using a cutting-edge mobile sensor, the iPhone 14 Pro, expanding the applicability of our approach to iPhone sensor data. Through extensive experimentation and in-depth analysis, we illustrate the effectiveness of our methods in the face of significant depth data errors, surpassing the performance of existing baselines. Code will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Probabilistic Weight Fixing: Large-scale training of neural network  weight uncertainties for quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13575  
**Abstract:** Weight-sharing quantization has emerged as a technique to reduce energy expenditure during inference in large neural networks by constraining their weights to a limited set of values. However, existing methods for weight-sharing quantization often make assumptions about the treatment of weights based on value alone that neglect the unique role weight position plays. This paper proposes a probabilistic framework based on Bayesian neural networks (BNNs) and a variational relaxation to identify which weights can be moved to which cluster centre and to what degree based on their individual position-specific learned uncertainty distributions. We introduce a new initialisation setting and a regularisation term which allow for the training of BNNs under complex dataset-model combinations. By leveraging the flexibility of weight values captured through a probability distribution, we enhance noise resilience and downstream compressibility. Our iterative clustering procedure demonstrates superior compressibility and higher accuracy compared to state-of-the-art methods on both ResNet models and the more complex transformer-based architectures. In particular, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art quantization method top-1 accuracy by 1.6% on ImageNet using DeiT-Tiny, with its 5 million+ weights now represented by only 296 unique values. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Seeing Is Not Always Believing: Invisible Collision Attack and Defence  on Pre-Trained Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13579  
**Abstract:** Large-scale pre-trained models (PTMs) such as BERT and GPT have achieved great success in diverse fields. The typical paradigm is to pre-train a big deep learning model on large-scale data sets, and then fine-tune the model on small task-specific data sets for downstream tasks. Although PTMs have rapidly progressed with wide real-world applications, they also pose significant risks of potential attacks. Existing backdoor attacks or data poisoning methods often build up the assumption that the attacker invades the computers of victims or accesses the target data, which is challenging in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for an invisible attack on PTMs with enhanced MD5 collision. The key idea is to generate two equal-size models with the same MD5 checksum by leveraging the MD5 chosen-prefix collision. Afterwards, the two ``same" models will be deployed on public websites to induce victims to download the poisoned model. Unlike conventional attacks on deep learning models, this new attack is flexible, covert, and model-independent. Additionally, we propose a simple defensive strategy for recognizing the MD5 chosen-prefix collision and provide a theoretical justification for its feasibility. We extensively validate the effectiveness and stealthiness of our proposed attack and defensive method on different models and data sets. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Multi-Dimensional Hyena for Spatial Inductive Bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13600  
**Abstract:** In recent years, Vision Transformers have attracted increasing interest from computer vision researchers. However, the advantage of these transformers over CNNs is only fully manifested when trained over a large dataset, mainly due to the reduced inductive bias towards spatial locality within the transformer's self-attention mechanism. In this work, we present a data-efficient vision transformer that does not rely on self-attention. Instead, it employs a novel generalization to multiple axes of the very recent Hyena layer. We propose several alternative approaches for obtaining this generalization and delve into their unique distinctions and considerations from both empirical and theoretical perspectives. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** MM-NeRF: Multimodal-Guided 3D Multi-Style Transfer of Neural Radiance  Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13607  
**Abstract:** 3D style transfer aims to render stylized novel views of 3D scenes with the specified style, which requires high-quality rendering and keeping multi-view consistency. Benefiting from the ability of 3D representation from Neural Radiance Field (NeRF), existing methods learn the stylized NeRF by giving a reference style from an image. However, they suffer the challenges of high-quality stylization with texture details for multi-style transfer and stylization with multimodal guidance. In this paper, we reveal that the same objects in 3D scenes show various states (color tone, details, etc.) from different views after stylization since previous methods optimized by single-view image-based style loss functions, leading NeRF to tend to smooth texture details, further resulting in low-quality rendering. To tackle these problems, we propose a novel Multimodal-guided 3D Multi-style transfer of NeRF, termed MM-NeRF, which achieves high-quality 3D multi-style rendering with texture details and can be driven by multimodal-style guidance. First, MM-NeRF adopts a unified framework to project multimodal guidance into CLIP space and extracts multimodal style features to guide the multi-style stylization. To relieve the problem of lacking details, we propose a novel Multi-Head Learning Scheme (MLS), in which each style head predicts the parameters of the color head of NeRF. MLS decomposes the learning difficulty caused by the inconsistency of multi-style transfer and improves the quality of stylization. In addition, the MLS can generalize pre-trained MM-NeRF to any new styles by adding heads with small training costs (a few minutes). Extensive experiments on three real-world 3D scene datasets show that MM-NeRF achieves high-quality 3D multi-style stylization with multimodal guidance, keeps multi-view consistency, and keeps semantic consistency of multimodal style guidance. Codes will be released later. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Boosting Offline Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving with  Hierarchical Latent Skills  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13614  
**Abstract:** Learning-based vehicle planning is receiving increasing attention with the emergence of diverse driving simulators and large-scale driving datasets. While offline reinforcement learning (RL) is well suited for these safety-critical tasks, it still struggles to plan over extended periods. In this work, we present a skill-based framework that enhances offline RL to overcome the long-horizon vehicle planning challenge. Specifically, we design a variational autoencoder (VAE) to learn skills from offline demonstrations. To mitigate posterior collapse of common VAEs, we introduce a two-branch sequence encoder to capture both discrete options and continuous variations of the complex driving skills. The final policy treats learned skills as actions and can be trained by any off-the-shelf offline RL algorithms. This facilitates a shift in focus from per-step actions to temporally extended skills, thereby enabling long-term reasoning into the future. Extensive results on CARLA prove that our model consistently outperforms strong baselines at both training and new scenarios. Additional visualizations and experiments demonstrate the interpretability and transferability of extracted skills. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Changes-Aware Transformer: Learning Generalized Changes Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13619  
**Abstract:** Difference features obtained by comparing the images of two periods play an indispensable role in the change detection (CD) task. However, a pair of bi-temporal images can exhibit diverse changes, which may cause various difference features. Identifying changed pixels with differ difference features to be the same category is thus a challenge for CD. Most nowadays' methods acquire distinctive difference features in implicit ways like enhancing image representation or supervision information. Nevertheless, informative image features only guarantee object semantics are modeled and can not guarantee that changed pixels have similar semantics in the difference feature space and are distinct from those unchanged ones. In this work, the generalized representation of various changes is learned straightforwardly in the difference feature space, and a novel Changes-Aware Transformer (CAT) for refining difference features is proposed. This generalized representation can perceive which pixels are changed and which are unchanged and further guide the update of pixels' difference features. CAT effectively accomplishes this refinement process through the stacked cosine cross-attention layer and self-attention layer. After refinement, the changed pixels in the difference feature space are closer to each other, which facilitates change detection. In addition, CAT is compatible with various backbone networks and existing CD methods. Experiments on remote sensing CD data set and street scene CD data set show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance and has excellent generalization. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Embers of Autoregression: Understanding Large Language Models Through  the Problem They are Trained to Solve  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13638  
**Abstract:** The widespread adoption of large language models (LLMs) makes it important to recognize their strengths and limitations. We argue that in order to develop a holistic understanding of these systems we need to consider the problem that they were trained to solve: next-word prediction over Internet text. By recognizing the pressures that this task exerts we can make predictions about the strategies that LLMs will adopt, allowing us to reason about when they will succeed or fail. This approach - which we call the teleological approach - leads us to identify three factors that we hypothesize will influence LLM accuracy: the probability of the task to be performed, the probability of the target output, and the probability of the provided input. We predict that LLMs will achieve higher accuracy when these probabilities are high than when they are low - even in deterministic settings where probability should not matter. To test our predictions, we evaluate two LLMs (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) on eleven tasks, and we find robust evidence that LLMs are influenced by probability in the ways that we have hypothesized. In many cases, the experiments reveal surprising failure modes. For instance, GPT-4's accuracy at decoding a simple cipher is 51% when the output is a high-probability word sequence but only 13% when it is low-probability. These results show that AI practitioners should be careful about using LLMs in low-probability situations. More broadly, we conclude that we should not evaluate LLMs as if they are humans but should instead treat them as a distinct type of system - one that has been shaped by its own particular set of pressures. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Adaptation of the super resolution SOTA for Art Restoration in camera  capture images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13655  
**Abstract:** Preserving cultural heritage is of paramount importance. In the domain of art restoration, developing a computer vision model capable of effectively restoring deteriorated images of art pieces was difficult, but now we have a good computer vision state-of-art. Traditional restoration methods are often time-consuming and require extensive expertise. The aim of this work is to design an automated solution based on computer vision models that can enhance and reconstruct degraded artworks, improving their visual quality while preserving their original characteristics and artifacts. The model should handle a diverse range of deterioration types, including but not limited to noise, blur, scratches, fading, and other common forms of degradation. We adapt the current state-of-art for the image super-resolution based on the Diffusion Model (DM) and fine-tune it for Image art restoration. Our results show that instead of fine-tunning multiple different models for different kinds of degradation, fine-tuning one super-resolution, We train it on multiple datasets to make it robust. code link: https://github.com/Naagar/art_restoration_DM 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Accelerating Large Batch Training via Gradient Signal to Noise Ratio  (GSNR)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13681  
**Abstract:** As models for nature language processing (NLP), computer vision (CV) and recommendation systems (RS) require surging computation, a large number of GPUs/TPUs are paralleled as a large batch (LB) to improve training throughput. However, training such LB tasks often meets large generalization gap and downgrades final precision, which limits enlarging the batch size. In this work, we develop the variance reduced gradient descent technique (VRGD) based on the gradient signal to noise ratio (GSNR) and apply it onto popular optimizers such as SGD/Adam/LARS/LAMB. We carry out a theoretical analysis of convergence rate to explain its fast training dynamics, and a generalization analysis to demonstrate its smaller generalization gap on LB training. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that VRGD can accelerate training ($1\sim 2 \times$), narrow generalization gap and improve final accuracy. We push the batch size limit of BERT pretraining up to 128k/64k and DLRM to 512k without noticeable accuracy loss. We improve ImageNet Top-1 accuracy at 96k by $0.52pp$ than LARS. The generalization gap of BERT and ImageNet training is significantly reduce by over $65\%$. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** "Always Nice and Confident, Sometimes wrong": Developer's Experiences  Engaging Generative AI Chatbots Versus Human-Powered Q&A Platforms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13684  
**Abstract:** Software engineers have historically relied on human-powered Q&A platforms, like Stack Overflow (SO), as coding aids. With the rise of generative AI, developers have adopted AI chatbots, such as ChatGPT, in their software development process. Recognizing the potential parallels between human-powered Q&A platforms and AI-powered question-based chatbots, we investigate and compare how developers integrate this assistance into their real-world coding experiences by conducting thematic analysis of Reddit posts. Through a comparative study of SO and ChatGPT, we identified each platform's strengths, use cases, and barriers. Our findings suggest that ChatGPT offers fast, clear, comprehensive responses and fosters a more respectful environment than SO. However, concerns about ChatGPT's reliability stem from its overly confident tone and the absence of validation mechanisms like SO's voting system. Based on these findings, we recommend leveraging each platform's unique features to improve developer experiences in the future. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Video Adverse-Weather-Component Suppression Network via Weather  Messenger and Adversarial Backpropagation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13700  
**Abstract:** Although convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been proposed to remove adverse weather conditions in single images using a single set of pre-trained weights, they fail to restore weather videos due to the absence of temporal information. Furthermore, existing methods for removing adverse weather conditions (e.g., rain, fog, and snow) from videos can only handle one type of adverse weather. In this work, we propose the first framework for restoring videos from all adverse weather conditions by developing a video adverse-weather-component suppression network (ViWS-Net). To achieve this, we first devise a weather-agnostic video transformer encoder with multiple transformer stages. Moreover, we design a long short-term temporal modeling mechanism for weather messenger to early fuse input adjacent video frames and learn weather-specific information. We further introduce a weather discriminator with gradient reversion, to maintain the weather-invariant common information and suppress the weather-specific information in pixel features, by adversarially predicting weather types. Finally, we develop a messenger-driven video transformer decoder to retrieve the residual weather-specific feature, which is spatiotemporally aggregated with hierarchical pixel features and refined to predict the clean target frame of input videos. Experimental results, on benchmark datasets and real-world weather videos, demonstrate that our ViWS-Net outperforms current state-of-the-art methods in terms of restoring videos degraded by any weather condition. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Skill Check: Some Considerations on the Evaluation of Gamemastering  Models for Role-playing Games  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13702  
**Abstract:** In role-playing games a Game Master (GM) is the player in charge of the game, who must design the challenges the players face and narrate the outcomes of their actions. In this work we discuss some challenges to model GMs from an Interactive Storytelling and Natural Language Processing perspective. Following those challenges we propose three test categories to evaluate such dialogue systems, and we use them to test ChatGPT, Bard and OpenAssistant as out-of-the-box GMs. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** A Neural-Guided Dynamic Symbolic Network for Exploring Mathematical  Expressions from Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13705  
**Abstract:** Symbolic regression (SR) is a powerful technique for discovering the underlying mathematical expressions from observed data. Inspired by the success of deep learning, recent efforts have focused on two categories for SR methods. One is using a neural network or genetic programming to search the expression tree directly. Although this has shown promising results, the large search space poses difficulties in learning constant factors and processing high-dimensional problems. Another approach is leveraging a transformer-based model training on synthetic data and offers advantages in inference speed. However, this method is limited to fixed small numbers of dimensions and may encounter inference problems when given data is out-of-distribution compared to the synthetic data. In this work, we propose DySymNet, a novel neural-guided Dynamic Symbolic Network for SR. Instead of searching for expressions within a large search space, we explore DySymNet with various structures and optimize them to identify expressions that better-fitting the data. With a topology structure like neural networks, DySymNet not only tackles the challenge of high-dimensional problems but also proves effective in optimizing constants. Based on extensive numerical experiments using low-dimensional public standard benchmarks and the well-known SRBench with more variables, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of fitting accuracy and robustness to noise. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** MOSAIC: Multi-Object Segmented Arbitrary Stylization Using CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13716  
**Abstract:** Style transfer driven by text prompts paved a new path for creatively stylizing the images without collecting an actual style image. Despite having promising results, with text-driven stylization, the user has no control over the stylization. If a user wants to create an artistic image, the user requires fine control over the stylization of various entities individually in the content image, which is not addressed by the current state-of-the-art approaches. On the other hand, diffusion style transfer methods also suffer from the same issue because the regional stylization control over the stylized output is ineffective. To address this problem, We propose a new method Multi-Object Segmented Arbitrary Stylization Using CLIP (MOSAIC), that can apply styles to different objects in the image based on the context extracted from the input prompt. Text-based segmentation and stylization modules which are based on vision transformer architecture, were used to segment and stylize the objects. Our method can extend to any arbitrary objects, styles and produce high-quality images compared to the current state of art methods. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to perform text-guided arbitrary object-wise stylization. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through qualitative and quantitative analysis, showing that it can generate visually appealing stylized images with enhanced control over stylization and the ability to generalize to unseen object classes. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Does the "most sinfully decadent cake ever" taste good? Answering Yes/No  Questions from Figurative Contexts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13748  
**Abstract:** Figurative language is commonplace in natural language, and while making communication memorable and creative, can be difficult to understand. In this work, we investigate the robustness of Question Answering (QA) models on figurative text. Yes/no questions, in particular, are a useful probe of figurative language understanding capabilities of large language models. We propose FigurativeQA, a set of 1000 yes/no questions with figurative and non-figurative contexts, extracted from the domains of restaurant and product reviews. We show that state-of-the-art BERT-based QA models exhibit an average performance drop of up to 15\% points when answering questions from figurative contexts, as compared to non-figurative ones. While models like GPT-3 and ChatGPT are better at handling figurative texts, we show that further performance gains can be achieved by automatically simplifying the figurative contexts into their non-figurative (literal) counterparts. We find that the best overall model is ChatGPT with chain-of-thought prompting to generate non-figurative contexts. Our work provides a promising direction for building more robust QA models with figurative language understanding capabilities. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Devil in the Number: Towards Robust Multi-modality Data Filter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13770  
**Abstract:** In order to appropriately filter multi-modality data sets on a web-scale, it becomes crucial to employ suitable filtering methods to boost performance and reduce training costs. For instance, LAION papers employs the CLIP score filter to select data with CLIP scores surpassing a certain threshold. On the other hand, T-MARS achieves high-quality data filtering by detecting and masking text within images and then filtering by CLIP score. Through analyzing the dataset, we observe a significant proportion of redundant information, such as numbers, present in the textual content. Our experiments on a subset of the data unveil the profound impact of these redundant elements on the CLIP scores. A logical approach would involve reevaluating the CLIP scores after eliminating these influences. Experimentally, our text-based CLIP filter outperforms the top-ranked method on the ``small scale" of DataComp (a data filtering benchmark) on ImageNet distribution shifts, achieving a 3.6% performance improvement. The results also demonstrate that our proposed text-masked filter outperforms the original CLIP score filter when selecting the top 40% of the data. The impact of numbers on CLIP and their handling provide valuable insights for improving the effectiveness of CLIP training, including language rewrite techniques. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Can LLM-Generated Misinformation Be Detected?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13788  
**Abstract:** The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) has made a transformative impact. However, the potential that LLMs such as ChatGPT can be exploited to generate misinformation has posed a serious concern to online safety and public trust. A fundamental research question is: will LLM-generated misinformation cause more harm than human-written misinformation? We propose to tackle this question from the perspective of detection difficulty. We first build a taxonomy of LLM-generated misinformation. Then we categorize and validate the potential real-world methods for generating misinformation with LLMs. Then, through extensive empirical investigation, we discover that LLM-generated misinformation can be harder to detect for humans and detectors compared to human-written misinformation with the same semantics, which suggests it can have more deceptive styles and potentially cause more harm. We also discuss the implications of our discovery on combating misinformation in the age of LLMs and the countermeasures. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** PARTICLE: Part Discovery and Contrastive Learning for Fine-grained  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13822  
**Abstract:** We develop techniques for refining representations for fine-grained classification and segmentation tasks in a self-supervised manner. We find that fine-tuning methods based on instance-discriminative contrastive learning are not as effective, and posit that recognizing part-specific variations is crucial for fine-grained categorization. We present an iterative learning approach that incorporates part-centric equivariance and invariance objectives. First, pixel representations are clustered to discover parts. We analyze the representations from convolutional and vision transformer networks that are best suited for this task. Then, a part-centric learning step aggregates and contrasts representations of parts within an image. We show that this improves the performance on image classification and part segmentation tasks across datasets. For example, under a linear-evaluation scheme, the classification accuracy of a ResNet50 trained on ImageNet using DetCon, a self-supervised learning approach, improves from 35.4% to 42.0% on the Caltech-UCSD Birds, from 35.5% to 44.1% on the FGVC Aircraft, and from 29.7% to 37.4% on the Stanford Cars. We also observe significant gains in few-shot part segmentation tasks using the proposed technique, while instance-discriminative learning was not as effective. Smaller, yet consistent, improvements are also observed for stronger networks based on transformers. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** LLM-Powered Conversational Voice Assistants: Interaction Patterns,  Opportunities, Challenges, and Design Guidelines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13879  
**Abstract:** Conventional Voice Assistants (VAs) rely on traditional language models to discern user intent and respond to their queries, leading to interactions that often lack a broader contextual understanding, an area in which Large Language Models (LLMs) excel. However, current LLMs are largely designed for text-based interactions, thus making it unclear how user interactions will evolve if their modality is changed to voice. In this work, we investigate whether LLMs can enrich VA interactions via an exploratory study with participants (N=20) using a ChatGPT-powered VA for three scenarios (medical self-diagnosis, creative planning, and debate) with varied constraints, stakes, and objectivity. We observe that LLM-powered VA elicits richer interaction patterns that vary across tasks, showing its versatility. Notably, LLMs absorb the majority of VA intent recognition failures. We additionally discuss the potential of harnessing LLMs for more resilient and fluid user-VA interactions and provide design guidelines for tailoring LLMs for voice assistance. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Scene Informer: Anchor-based Occlusion Inference and Trajectory  Prediction in Partially Observable Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13893  
**Abstract:** Navigating complex and dynamic environments requires autonomous vehicles (AVs) to reason about both visible and occluded regions. This involves predicting the future motion of observed agents, inferring occluded ones, and modeling their interactions based on vectorized scene representations of the partially observable environment. However, prior work on occlusion inference and trajectory prediction have developed in isolation, with the former based on simplified rasterized methods and the latter assuming full environment observability. We introduce the Scene Informer, a unified approach for predicting both observed agent trajectories and inferring occlusions in a partially observable setting. It uses a transformer to aggregate various input modalities and facilitate selective queries on occlusions that might intersect with the AV's planned path. The framework estimates occupancy probabilities and likely trajectories for occlusions, as well as forecast motion for observed agents. We explore common observability assumptions in both domains and their performance impact. Our approach outperforms existing methods in both occupancy prediction and trajectory prediction in partially observable setting on the Waymo Open Motion Dataset. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** In-Domain GAN Inversion for Faithful Reconstruction and Editability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13956  
**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have significantly advanced image synthesis through mapping randomly sampled latent codes to high-fidelity synthesized images. However, applying well-trained GANs to real image editing remains challenging. A common solution is to find an approximate latent code that can adequately recover the input image to edit, which is also known as GAN inversion. To invert a GAN model, prior works typically focus on reconstructing the target image at the pixel level, yet few studies are conducted on whether the inverted result can well support manipulation at the semantic level. This work fills in this gap by proposing in-domain GAN inversion, which consists of a domain-guided encoder and a domain-regularized optimizer, to regularize the inverted code in the native latent space of the pre-trained GAN model. In this way, we manage to sufficiently reuse the knowledge learned by GANs for image reconstruction, facilitating a wide range of editing applications without any retraining. We further make comprehensive analyses on the effects of the encoder structure, the starting inversion point, as well as the inversion parameter space, and observe the trade-off between the reconstruction quality and the editing property. Such a trade-off sheds light on how a GAN model represents an image with various semantics encoded in the learned latent distribution. Code, models, and demo are available at the project page: https://genforce.github.io/idinvert/. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Egocentric RGB+Depth Action Recognition in Industry-Like Settings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13962  
**Abstract:** Action recognition from an egocentric viewpoint is a crucial perception task in robotics and enables a wide range of human-robot interactions. While most computer vision approaches prioritize the RGB camera, the Depth modality - which can further amplify the subtleties of actions from an egocentric perspective - remains underexplored. Our work focuses on recognizing actions from egocentric RGB and Depth modalities in an industry-like environment. To study this problem, we consider the recent MECCANO dataset, which provides a wide range of assembling actions. Our framework is based on the 3D Video SWIN Transformer to encode both RGB and Depth modalities effectively. To address the inherent skewness in real-world multimodal action occurrences, we propose a training strategy using an exponentially decaying variant of the focal loss modulating factor. Additionally, to leverage the information in both RGB and Depth modalities, we opt for late fusion to combine the predictions from each modality. We thoroughly evaluate our method on the action recognition task of the MECCANO dataset, and it significantly outperforms the prior work. Notably, our method also secured first place at the multimodal action recognition challenge at ICIAP 2023. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Variational Inference for Scalable 3D Object-centric Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14010  
**Abstract:** We tackle the task of scalable unsupervised object-centric representation learning on 3D scenes. Existing approaches to object-centric representation learning show limitations in generalizing to larger scenes as their learning processes rely on a fixed global coordinate system. In contrast, we propose to learn view-invariant 3D object representations in localized object coordinate systems. To this end, we estimate the object pose and appearance representation separately and explicitly map object representations across views while maintaining object identities. We adopt an amortized variational inference pipeline that can process sequential input and scalably update object latent distributions online. To handle large-scale scenes with a varying number of objects, we further introduce a Cognitive Map that allows the registration and query of objects on a per-scene global map to achieve scalable representation learning. We explore the object-centric neural radiance field (NeRF) as our 3D scene representation, which is jointly modeled within our unsupervised object-centric learning framework. Experimental results on synthetic and real datasets show that our proposed method can infer and maintain object-centric representations of 3D scenes and outperforms previous models. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Diffeomorphic Transformations for Time Series Analysis: An Efficient  Approach to Nonlinear Warping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14029  
**Abstract:** The proliferation and ubiquity of temporal data across many disciplines has sparked interest for similarity, classification and clustering methods specifically designed to handle time series data. A core issue when dealing with time series is determining their pairwise similarity, i.e., the degree to which a given time series resembles another. Traditional distance measures such as the Euclidean are not well-suited due to the time-dependent nature of the data. Elastic metrics such as dynamic time warping (DTW) offer a promising approach, but are limited by their computational complexity, non-differentiability and sensitivity to noise and outliers. This thesis proposes novel elastic alignment methods that use parametric \& diffeomorphic warping transformations as a means of overcoming the shortcomings of DTW-based metrics. The proposed method is differentiable \& invertible, well-suited for deep learning architectures, robust to noise and outliers, computationally efficient, and is expressive and flexible enough to capture complex patterns. Furthermore, a closed-form solution was developed for the gradient of these diffeomorphic transformations, which allows an efficient search in the parameter space, leading to better solutions at convergence. Leveraging the benefits of these closed-form diffeomorphic transformations, this thesis proposes a suite of advancements that include: (a) an enhanced temporal transformer network for time series alignment and averaging, (b) a deep-learning based time series classification model to simultaneously align and classify signals with high accuracy, (c) an incremental time series clustering algorithm that is warping-invariant, scalable and can operate under limited computational and time resources, and finally, (d) a normalizing flow model that enhances the flexibility of affine transformations in coupling and autoregressive layers. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** DeWave: Discrete EEG Waves Encoding for Brain Dynamics to Text  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14030  
**Abstract:** The translation of brain dynamics into natural language is pivotal for brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), a field that has seen substantial growth in recent years. With the swift advancement of large language models, such as ChatGPT, the need to bridge the gap between the brain and languages becomes increasingly pressing. Current methods, however, require eye-tracking fixations or event markers to segment brain dynamics into word-level features, which can restrict the practical application of these systems. These event markers may not be readily available or could be challenging to acquire during real-time inference, and the sequence of eye fixations may not align with the order of spoken words. To tackle these issues, we introduce a novel framework, DeWave, that integrates discrete encoding sequences into open-vocabulary EEG-to-text translation tasks. DeWave uses a quantized variational encoder to derive discrete codex encoding and align it with pre-trained language models. This discrete codex representation brings forth two advantages: 1) it alleviates the order mismatch between eye fixations and spoken words by introducing text-EEG contrastive alignment training, and 2) it minimizes the interference caused by individual differences in EEG waves through an invariant discrete codex. Our model surpasses the previous baseline (40.1 and 31.7) by 3.06% and 6.34%, respectively, achieving 41.35 BLEU-1 and 33.71 Rouge-F on the ZuCo Dataset. Furthermore, this work is the first to facilitate the translation of entire EEG signal periods without needing word-level order markers (e.g., eye fixations), scoring 20.5 BLEU-1 and 29.5 Rouge-1 on the ZuCo Dataset, respectively. Codes and the final paper will be public soon. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Adapt then Unlearn: Exploiting Parameter Space Semantics for Unlearning  in Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14054  
**Abstract:** The increased attention to regulating the outputs of deep generative models, driven by growing concerns about privacy and regulatory compliance, has highlighted the need for effective control over these models. This necessity arises from instances where generative models produce outputs containing undesirable, offensive, or potentially harmful content. To tackle this challenge, the concept of machine unlearning has emerged, aiming to forget specific learned information or to erase the influence of undesired data subsets from a trained model. The objective of this work is to prevent the generation of outputs containing undesired features from a pre-trained GAN where the underlying training data set is inaccessible. Our approach is inspired by a crucial observation: the parameter space of GANs exhibits meaningful directions that can be leveraged to suppress specific undesired features. However, such directions usually result in the degradation of the quality of generated samples. Our proposed method, known as 'Adapt-then-Unlearn,' excels at unlearning such undesirable features while also maintaining the quality of generated samples. This method unfolds in two stages: in the initial stage, we adapt the pre-trained GAN using negative samples provided by the user, while in the subsequent stage, we focus on unlearning the undesired feature. During the latter phase, we train the pre-trained GAN using positive samples, incorporating a repulsion regularizer. This regularizer encourages the model's parameters to be away from the parameters associated with the adapted model from the first stage while also maintaining the quality of generated samples. To the best of our knowledge, our approach stands as first method addressing unlearning in GANs. We validate the effectiveness of our method through comprehensive experiments. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Soft Mixture Denoising: Beyond the Expressive Bottleneck of Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14068  
**Abstract:** Because diffusion models have shown impressive performances in a number of tasks, such as image synthesis, there is a trend in recent works to prove (with certain assumptions) that these models have strong approximation capabilities. In this paper, we show that current diffusion models actually have an expressive bottleneck in backward denoising and some assumption made by existing theoretical guarantees is too strong. Based on this finding, we prove that diffusion models have unbounded errors in both local denoising and global approximation. In light of our theoretical studies, we introduce soft mixture denoising (SMD), an expressive and efficient model for backward denoising. SMD not only permits diffusion models to well approximate any Gaussian mixture distributions in theory, but also is simple and efficient for implementation. Our experiments on multiple image datasets show that SMD significantly improves different types of diffusion models (e.g., DDPM), especially in the situation of few backward iterations. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Comprehensive Overview of Named Entity Recognition: Models,  Domain-Specific Applications and Challenges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14084  
**Abstract:** In the domain of Natural Language Processing (NLP), Named Entity Recognition (NER) stands out as a pivotal mechanism for extracting structured insights from unstructured text. This manuscript offers an exhaustive exploration into the evolving landscape of NER methodologies, blending foundational principles with contemporary AI advancements. Beginning with the rudimentary concepts of NER, the study spans a spectrum of techniques from traditional rule-based strategies to the contemporary marvels of transformer architectures, particularly highlighting integrations such as BERT with LSTM and CNN. The narrative accentuates domain-specific NER models, tailored for intricate areas like finance, legal, and healthcare, emphasizing their specialized adaptability. Additionally, the research delves into cutting-edge paradigms including reinforcement learning, innovative constructs like E-NER, and the interplay of Optical Character Recognition (OCR) in augmenting NER capabilities. Grounding its insights in practical realms, the paper sheds light on the indispensable role of NER in sectors like finance and biomedicine, addressing the unique challenges they present. The conclusion outlines open challenges and avenues, marking this work as a comprehensive guide for those delving into NER research and applications. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Only 5\% Attention Is All You Need: Efficient Long-range Document-level  Neural Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14174  
**Abstract:** Document-level Neural Machine Translation (DocNMT) has been proven crucial for handling discourse phenomena by introducing document-level context information. One of the most important directions is to input the whole document directly to the standard Transformer model. In this case, efficiency becomes a critical concern due to the quadratic complexity of the attention module. Existing studies either focus on the encoder part, which cannot be deployed on sequence-to-sequence generation tasks, e.g., Machine Translation (MT), or suffer from a significant performance drop. In this work, we keep the translation performance while gaining 20\% speed up by introducing extra selection layer based on lightweight attention that selects a small portion of tokens to be attended. It takes advantage of the original attention to ensure performance and dimension reduction to accelerate inference. Experimental results show that our method could achieve up to 95\% sparsity (only 5\% tokens attended) approximately, and save 93\% computation cost on the attention module compared with the original Transformer, while maintaining the performance. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Q-Bench: A Benchmark for General-Purpose Foundation Models on Low-level  Vision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14181  
**Abstract:** The rapid evolution of Multi-modality Large Language Models (MLLMs) has catalyzed a shift in computer vision from specialized models to general-purpose foundation models. Nevertheless, there is still an inadequacy in assessing the abilities of MLLMs on low-level visual perception and understanding. To address this gap, we present Q-Bench, a holistic benchmark crafted to systematically evaluate potential abilities of MLLMs on three realms: low-level visual perception, low-level visual description, and overall visual quality assessment. a) To evaluate the low-level perception ability, we construct the LLVisionQA dataset, consisting of 2,990 diverse-sourced images, each equipped with a human-asked question focusing on its low-level attributes. We then measure the correctness of MLLMs on answering these questions. b) To examine the description ability of MLLMs on low-level information, we propose the LLDescribe dataset consisting of long expert-labelled golden low-level text descriptions on 499 images, and a GPT-involved comparison pipeline between outputs of MLLMs and the golden descriptions. c) Besides these two tasks, we further measure their visual quality assessment ability to align with human opinion scores. Specifically, we design a softmax-based strategy that enables MLLMs to predict quantifiable quality scores, and evaluate them on various existing image quality assessment (IQA) datasets. Our evaluation across the three abilities confirms that MLLMs possess fundamental low-level visual skills. However, these skills are still unstable and relatively imprecise, indicating the need for specific enhancements on MLLMs towards these abilities. We hope that our benchmark can encourage the research community to delve deeper to discover and enhance these untapped potentials of MLLMs. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** CLIP-DIY: CLIP Dense Inference Yields Open-Vocabulary Semantic  Segmentation For-Free  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14289  
**Abstract:** The emergence of CLIP has opened the way for open-world image perception. The zero-shot classification capabilities of the model are impressive but are harder to use for dense tasks such as image segmentation. Several methods have proposed different modifications and learning schemes to produce dense output. Instead, we propose in this work an open-vocabulary semantic segmentation method, dubbed CLIP-DIY, which does not require any additional training or annotations, but instead leverages existing unsupervised object localization approaches. In particular, CLIP-DIY is a multi-scale approach that directly exploits CLIP classification abilities on patches of different sizes and aggregates the decision in a single map. We further guide the segmentation using foreground/background scores obtained using unsupervised object localization methods. With our method, we obtain state-of-the-art zero-shot semantic segmentation results on PASCAL VOC and perform on par with the best methods on COCO. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** NAS-NeRF: Generative Neural Architecture Search for Neural Radiance  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14293  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) enable high-quality novel view synthesis, but their prohibitively high computational complexity limits deployability, especially on resource-constrained platforms. To enable practical usage of NeRFs, quality tuning is essential to reduce computational complexity, akin to adjustable graphics settings in video games. However while existing solutions strive for efficiency, they use one-size-fits-all architectures regardless of scene complexity, although the same architecture may be unnecessarily large for simple scenes but insufficient for complex ones. Thus as NeRFs become more widely used for 3D visualization, there is a need to dynamically optimize the neural network component of NeRFs to achieve a balance between computational complexity and specific targets for synthesis quality. Addressing this gap, we introduce NAS-NeRF: a generative neural architecture search strategy uniquely tailored to generate NeRF architectures on a per-scene basis by optimizing the trade-off between complexity and performance, while adhering to constraints on computational budget and minimum synthesis quality. Our experiments on the Blender synthetic dataset show the proposed NAS-NeRF can generate architectures up to 5.74$\times$ smaller, with 4.19$\times$ fewer FLOPs, and 1.93$\times$ faster on a GPU than baseline NeRFs, without suffering a drop in SSIM. Furthermore, we illustrate that NAS-NeRF can also achieve architectures up to 23$\times$ smaller, 22$\times$ fewer FLOPs, and 4.7$\times$ faster than baseline NeRFs with only a 5.3\% average SSIM drop. The source code for our work is also made publicly available at https://saeejithnair.github.io/NAS-NeRF. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** Dataset Diffusion: Diffusion-based Synthetic Dataset Generation for  Pixel-Level Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14303  
**Abstract:** Preparing training data for deep vision models is a labor-intensive task. To address this, generative models have emerged as an effective solution for generating synthetic data. While current generative models produce image-level category labels, we propose a novel method for generating pixel-level semantic segmentation labels using the text-to-image generative model Stable Diffusion (SD). By utilizing the text prompts, cross-attention, and self-attention of SD, we introduce three new techniques: \textit{class-prompt appending}, \textit{class-prompt cross-attention}, and \textit{self-attention exponentiation}. These techniques enable us to generate segmentation maps corresponding to synthetic images. These maps serve as pseudo-labels for training semantic segmenters, eliminating the need for labor-intensive pixel-wise annotation. To account for the imperfections in our pseudo-labels, we incorporate uncertainty regions into the segmentation, allowing us to disregard loss from those regions. We conduct evaluations on two datasets, PASCAL VOC and MSCOCO, and our approach significantly outperforms concurrent work. Our benchmarks and code will be released at https://github.com/VinAIResearch/Dataset-Diffusion 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** MUTEX: Learning Unified Policies from Multimodal Task Specifications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14320  
**Abstract:** Humans use different modalities, such as speech, text, images, videos, etc., to communicate their intent and goals with teammates. For robots to become better assistants, we aim to endow them with the ability to follow instructions and understand tasks specified by their human partners. Most robotic policy learning methods have focused on one single modality of task specification while ignoring the rich cross-modal information. We present MUTEX, a unified approach to policy learning from multimodal task specifications. It trains a transformer-based architecture to facilitate cross-modal reasoning, combining masked modeling and cross-modal matching objectives in a two-stage training procedure. After training, MUTEX can follow a task specification in any of the six learned modalities (video demonstrations, goal images, text goal descriptions, text instructions, speech goal descriptions, and speech instructions) or a combination of them. We systematically evaluate the benefits of MUTEX in a newly designed dataset with 100 tasks in simulation and 50 tasks in the real world, annotated with multiple instances of task specifications in different modalities, and observe improved performance over methods trained specifically for any single modality. More information at https://ut-austin-rpl.github.io/MUTEX/ 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Small-scale proxies for large-scale Transformer training instabilities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14322  
**Abstract:** Teams that have trained large Transformer-based models have reported training instabilities at large scale that did not appear when training with the same hyperparameters at smaller scales. Although the causes of such instabilities are of scientific interest, the amount of resources required to reproduce them has made investigation difficult. In this work, we seek ways to reproduce and study training stability and instability at smaller scales. First, we focus on two sources of training instability described in previous work: the growth of logits in attention layers (Dehghani et al., 2023) and divergence of the output logits from the log probabilities (Chowdhery et al., 2022). By measuring the relationship between learning rate and loss across scales, we show that these instabilities also appear in small models when training at high learning rates, and that mitigations previously employed at large scales are equally effective in this regime. This prompts us to investigate the extent to which other known optimizer and model interventions influence the sensitivity of the final loss to changes in the learning rate. To this end, we study methods such as warm-up, weight decay, and the $\mu$Param (Yang et al., 2022), and combine techniques to train small models that achieve similar losses across orders of magnitude of learning rate variation. Finally, to conclude our exploration we study two cases where instabilities can be predicted before they emerge by examining the scaling behavior of model activation and gradient norms. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** UnitedHuman: Harnessing Multi-Source Data for High-Resolution Human  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14335  
**Abstract:** Human generation has achieved significant progress. Nonetheless, existing methods still struggle to synthesize specific regions such as faces and hands. We argue that the main reason is rooted in the training data. A holistic human dataset inevitably has insufficient and low-resolution information on local parts. Therefore, we propose to use multi-source datasets with various resolution images to jointly learn a high-resolution human generative model. However, multi-source data inherently a) contains different parts that do not spatially align into a coherent human, and b) comes with different scales. To tackle these challenges, we propose an end-to-end framework, UnitedHuman, that empowers continuous GAN with the ability to effectively utilize multi-source data for high-resolution human generation. Specifically, 1) we design a Multi-Source Spatial Transformer that spatially aligns multi-source images to full-body space with a human parametric model. 2) Next, a continuous GAN is proposed with global-structural guidance and CutMix consistency. Patches from different datasets are then sampled and transformed to supervise the training of this scale-invariant generative model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our model jointly learned from multi-source data achieves superior quality than those learned from a holistic dataset. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** InvestLM: A Large Language Model for Investment using Financial Domain  Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13064  
**Abstract:** We present a new financial domain large language model, InvestLM, tuned on LLaMA-65B (Touvron et al., 2023), using a carefully curated instruction dataset related to financial investment. Inspired by less-is-more-for-alignment (Zhou et al., 2023), we manually curate a small yet diverse instruction dataset, covering a wide range of financial related topics, from Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam questions to SEC filings to Stackexchange quantitative finance discussions. InvestLM shows strong capabilities in understanding financial text and provides helpful responses to investment related questions. Financial experts, including hedge fund managers and research analysts, rate InvestLM's response as comparable to those of state-of-the-art commercial models (GPT-3.5, GPT-4 and Claude-2). Zero-shot evaluation on a set of financial NLP benchmarks demonstrates strong generalizability. From a research perspective, this work suggests that a high-quality domain specific LLM can be tuned using a small set of carefully curated instructions on a well-trained foundation model, which is consistent with the Superficial Alignment Hypothesis (Zhou et al., 2023). From a practical perspective, this work develops a state-of-the-art financial domain LLM with superior capability in understanding financial texts and providing helpful investment advice, potentially enhancing the work efficiency of financial professionals. We release the model parameters to the research community. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** AntiBARTy Diffusion for Property Guided Antibody Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13129  
**Abstract:** Over the past decade, antibodies have steadily grown in therapeutic importance thanks to their high specificity and low risk of adverse effects compared to other drug modalities. While traditional antibody discovery is primarily wet lab driven, the rapid improvement of ML-based generative modeling has made in-silico approaches an increasingly viable route for discovery and engineering. To this end, we train an antibody-specific language model, AntiBARTy, based on BART (Bidirectional and Auto-Regressive Transformer) and use its latent space to train a property-conditional diffusion model for guided IgG de novo design. As a test case, we show that we can effectively generate novel antibodies with improved in-silico solubility while maintaining antibody validity and controlling sequence diversity. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Enhancing Prediction and Analysis of UK Road Traffic Accident Severity  Using AI: Integration of Machine Learning, Econometric Techniques, and Time  Series Forecasting in Public Health Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13483  
**Abstract:** This research investigates road traffic accident severity in the UK, using a combination of machine learning, econometric, and statistical methods on historical data. We employed various techniques, including correlation analysis, regression models, GMM for error term issues, and time-series forecasting with VAR and ARIMA models. Our approach outperforms naive forecasting with an MASE of 0.800 and ME of -73.80. We also built a random forest classifier with 73% precision, 78% recall, and a 73% F1-score. Optimizing with H2O AutoML led to an XGBoost model with an RMSE of 0.176 and MAE of 0.087. Factor Analysis identified key variables, and we used SHAP for Explainable AI, highlighting influential factors like Driver_Home_Area_Type and Road_Type. Our study enhances understanding of accident severity and offers insights for evidence-based road safety policies. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** Attention Is All You Need For Blind Room Volume Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13504  
**Abstract:** In recent years, dynamic parameterization of acoustic environments has raised increasing attention in the field of audio processing. One of the key parameters that characterize the local room acoustics in isolation from orientation and directivity of sources and receivers is the geometric room volume. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been widely selected as the main models for conducting blind room acoustic parameter estimation, which aims to learn a direct mapping from audio spectrograms to corresponding labels. With the recent trend of self-attention mechanisms, this paper introduces a purely attention-based model to blindly estimate room volumes based on single-channel noisy speech signals. We demonstrate the feasibility of eliminating the reliance on CNN for this task and the proposed Transformer architecture takes Gammatone magnitude spectral coefficients and phase spectrograms as inputs. To enhance the model performance given the task-specific dataset, cross-modality transfer learning is also applied. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms traditional CNN models across a wide range of real-world acoustics spaces, especially with the help of the dedicated pretraining and data augmentation schemes. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Bayesian Parameter Inference for Partially Observed Diffusions using  Multilevel Stochastic Runge-Kutta Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13557  
**Abstract:** We consider the problem of Bayesian estimation of static parameters associated to a partially and discretely observed diffusion process. We assume that the exact transition dynamics of the diffusion process are unavailable, even up-to an unbiased estimator and that one must time-discretize the diffusion process. In such scenarios it has been shown how one can introduce the multilevel Monte Carlo method to reduce the cost to compute posterior expected values of the parameters for a pre-specified mean square error (MSE). These afore-mentioned methods rely on upon the Euler-Maruyama discretization scheme which is well-known in numerical analysis to have slow convergence properties. We adapt stochastic Runge-Kutta (SRK) methods for Bayesian parameter estimation of static parameters for diffusions. This can be implemented in high-dimensions of the diffusion and seemingly under-appreciated in the uncertainty quantification and statistics fields. For a class of diffusions and SRK methods, we consider the estimation of the posterior expectation of the parameters. We prove that to achieve a MSE of $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^2)$, for $\epsilon>0$ given, the associated work is $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^{-2})$. Whilst the latter is achievable for the Milstein scheme, this method is often not applicable for diffusions in dimension larger than two. We also illustrate our methodology in several numerical examples. 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** Solving Low-Dose CT Reconstruction via GAN with Local Coherence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13584  
**Abstract:** The Computed Tomography (CT) for diagnosis of lesions in human internal organs is one of the most fundamental topics in medical imaging. Low-dose CT, which offers reduced radiation exposure, is preferred over standard-dose CT, and therefore its reconstruction approaches have been extensively studied. However, current low-dose CT reconstruction techniques mainly rely on model-based methods or deep-learning-based techniques, which often ignore the coherence and smoothness for sequential CT slices. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach using generative adversarial networks (GANs) with enhanced local coherence. The proposed method can capture the local coherence of adjacent images by optical flow, which yields significant improvements in the precision and stability of the constructed images. We evaluate our proposed method on real datasets and the experimental results suggest that it can outperform existing state-of-the-art reconstruction approaches significantly. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** VoiceLDM: Text-to-Speech with Environmental Context  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13664  
**Abstract:** This paper presents VoiceLDM, a model designed to produce audio that accurately follows two distinct natural language text prompts: the description prompt and the content prompt. The former provides information about the overall environmental context of the audio, while the latter conveys the linguistic content. To achieve this, we adopt a text-to-audio (TTA) model based on latent diffusion models and extend its functionality to incorporate an additional content prompt as a conditional input. By utilizing pretrained contrastive language-audio pretraining (CLAP) and Whisper, VoiceLDM is trained on large amounts of real-world audio without manual annotations or transcriptions. Additionally, we employ dual classifier-free guidance to further enhance the controllability of VoiceLDM. Experimental results demonstrate that VoiceLDM is capable of generating plausible audio that aligns well with both input conditions, even surpassing the speech intelligibility of the ground truth audio on the AudioCaps test set. Furthermore, we explore the text-to-speech (TTS) and zero-shot text-to-audio capabilities of VoiceLDM and show that it achieves competitive results. Demos and code are available at https://voiceldm.github.io. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Beginner's guide to Aggregation-Diffusion Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13713  
**Abstract:** The aim of this survey is to serve as an introduction to the different techniques available in the broad field of Aggregation-Diffusion Equations. We aim to provide historical context, key literature, and main ideas in the field. We start by discussing the modelling and famous particular cases: Heat equation, Fokker-Plank, Porous medium, Keller-Segel, Chapman-Rubinstein-Schatzman, Newtonian vortex, Caffarelli-V\'azquez, McKean-Vlasov, Kuramoto, and one-layer neural networks. In Section 4 we present the well-posedness frameworks given as PDEs in Sobolev spaces, and gradient-flow in Wasserstein. Then we discuss the asymptotic behaviour in time, for which we need to understand minimisers of a free energy. We then present some numerical methods which have been developed. We conclude the paper mentioning some related problems. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** MMA-Net: Multiple Morphology-Aware Network for Automated Cobb Angle  Measurement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13817  
**Abstract:** Scoliosis diagnosis and assessment depend largely on the measurement of the Cobb angle in spine X-ray images. With the emergence of deep learning techniques that employ landmark detection, tilt prediction, and spine segmentation, automated Cobb angle measurement has become increasingly popular. However, these methods encounter difficulties such as high noise sensitivity, intricate computational procedures, and exclusive reliance on a single type of morphological information. In this paper, we introduce the Multiple Morphology-Aware Network (MMA-Net), a novel framework that improves Cobb angle measurement accuracy by integrating multiple spine morphology as attention information. In the MMA-Net, we first feed spine X-ray images into the segmentation network to produce multiple morphological information (spine region, centerline, and boundary) and then concatenate the original X-ray image with the resulting segmentation maps as input for the regression module to perform precise Cobb angle measurement. Furthermore, we devise joint loss functions for our segmentation and regression network training, respectively. We evaluate our method on the AASCE challenge dataset and achieve superior performance with the SMAPE of 7.28% and the MAE of 3.18{\deg}, indicating a strong competitiveness compared to other outstanding methods. Consequently, we can offer clinicians automated, efficient, and reliable Cobb angle measurement. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** Diffusion Conditional Expectation Model for Efficient and Robust Target  Speech Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13874  
**Abstract:** Target Speech Extraction (TSE) is a crucial task in speech processing that focuses on isolating the clean speech of a specific speaker from complex mixtures. While discriminative methods are commonly used for TSE, they can introduce distortion in terms of speech perception quality. On the other hand, generative approaches, particularly diffusion-based methods, can enhance speech quality perceptually but suffer from slower inference speed. We propose an efficient generative approach named Diffusion Conditional Expectation Model (DCEM) for TSE. It can handle multi- and single-speaker scenarios in both noisy and clean conditions. Additionally, we introduce Regenerate-DCEM (R-DCEM) that can regenerate and optimize speech quality based on pre-processed speech from a discriminative model. Our method outperforms conventional methods in terms of both intrusive and non-intrusive metrics and demonstrates notable strengths in inference efficiency and robustness to unseen tasks. Audio examples are available online (https://vivian556123.github.io/dcem). 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** Better Generalization of White Matter Tract Segmentation to Arbitrary  Datasets with Scaled Residual Bootstrap  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13980  
**Abstract:** White matter (WM) tract segmentation is a crucial step for brain connectivity studies. It is performed on diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI), and deep neural networks (DNNs) have achieved promising segmentation accuracy. Existing DNN-based methods use an annotated dataset for model training. However, the performance of the trained model on a different test dataset may not be optimal due to distribution shift, and it is desirable to design WM tract segmentation approaches that allow better generalization of the segmentation model to arbitrary test datasets. In this work, we propose a WM tract segmentation approach that improves the generalization with scaled residual bootstrap. The difference between dMRI scans in training and test datasets is most noticeably caused by the different numbers of diffusion gradients and noise levels. Since both of them lead to different signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) between the training and test data, we propose to augment the training scans by adjusting the noise magnitude and develop an adapted residual bootstrap strategy for the augmentation. To validate the proposed approach, two dMRI datasets were used, and the experimental results show that our method consistently improved the generalization of WM tract segmentation under various settings. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** HyperTrack: Neural Combinatorics for High Energy Physics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14113  
**Abstract:** Combinatorial inverse problems in high energy physics span enormous algorithmic challenges. This work presents a new deep learning driven clustering algorithm that utilizes a space-time non-local trainable graph constructor, a graph neural network, and a set transformer. The model is trained with loss functions at the graph node, edge and object level, including contrastive learning and meta-supervision. The algorithm can be applied to problems such as charged particle tracking, calorimetry, pile-up discrimination, jet physics, and beyond. We showcase the effectiveness of this cutting-edge AI approach through particle tracking simulations. The code is available online. 

