**ID:** 1  
**Title:** PopBERT. Detecting populism and its host ideologies in the German  Bundestag  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14355  
**Abstract:** The rise of populism concerns many political scientists and practitioners, yet the detection of its underlying language remains fragmentary. This paper aims to provide a reliable, valid, and scalable approach to measure populist stances. For that purpose, we created an annotated dataset based on parliamentary speeches of the German Bundestag (2013 to 2021). Following the ideational definition of populism, we label moralizing references to the virtuous people or the corrupt elite as core dimensions of populist language. To identify, in addition, how the thin ideology of populism is thickened, we annotate how populist statements are attached to left-wing or right-wing host ideologies. We then train a transformer-based model (PopBERT) as a multilabel classifier to detect and quantify each dimension. A battery of validation checks reveals that the model has a strong predictive accuracy, provides high qualitative face validity, matches party rankings of expert surveys, and detects out-of-sample text snippets correctly. PopBERT enables dynamic analyses of how German-speaking politicians and parties use populist language as a strategic device. Furthermore, the annotator-level data may also be applied in cross-domain applications or to develop related classifiers. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** COCO-Counterfactuals: Automatically Constructed Counterfactual Examples  for Image-Text Pairs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14356  
**Abstract:** Counterfactual examples have proven to be valuable in the field of natural language processing (NLP) for both evaluating and improving the robustness of language models to spurious correlations in datasets. Despite their demonstrated utility for NLP, multimodal counterfactual examples have been relatively unexplored due to the difficulty of creating paired image-text data with minimal counterfactual changes. To address this challenge, we introduce a scalable framework for automatic generation of counterfactual examples using text-to-image diffusion models. We use our framework to create COCO-Counterfactuals, a multimodal counterfactual dataset of paired image and text captions based on the MS-COCO dataset. We validate the quality of COCO-Counterfactuals through human evaluations and show that existing multimodal models are challenged by our counterfactual image-text pairs. Additionally, we demonstrate the usefulness of COCO-Counterfactuals for improving out-of-domain generalization of multimodal vision-language models via training data augmentation. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Domain-Guided Conditional Diffusion Model for Unsupervised Domain  Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14360  
**Abstract:** Limited transferability hinders the performance of deep learning models when applied to new application scenarios. Recently, Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) has achieved significant progress in addressing this issue via learning domain-invariant features. However, the performance of existing UDA methods is constrained by the large domain shift and limited target domain data. To alleviate these issues, we propose DomAin-guided Conditional Diffusion Model (DACDM) to generate high-fidelity and diversity samples for the target domain. In the proposed DACDM, by introducing class information, the labels of generated samples can be controlled, and a domain classifier is further introduced in DACDM to guide the generated samples for the target domain. The generated samples help existing UDA methods transfer from the source domain to the target domain more easily, thus improving the transfer performance. Extensive experiments on various benchmarks demonstrate that DACDM brings a large improvement to the performance of existing UDA methods. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Survey of Social Bias in Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14381  
**Abstract:** In recent years, the rapid advancement of machine learning (ML) models, particularly transformer-based pre-trained models, has revolutionized Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Computer Vision (CV) fields. However, researchers have discovered that these models can inadvertently capture and reinforce social biases present in their training datasets, leading to potential social harms, such as uneven resource allocation and unfair representation of specific social groups. Addressing these biases and ensuring fairness in artificial intelligence (AI) systems has become a critical concern in the ML community. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Sampling - Variational Auto Encoder - Ensemble: In the Quest of  Explainable Artificial Intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14385  
**Abstract:** Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) models have recently attracted a great deal of interest from a variety of application sectors. Despite significant developments in this area, there are still no standardized methods or approaches for understanding AI model outputs. A systematic and cohesive framework is also increasingly necessary to incorporate new techniques like discriminative and generative models to close the gap. This paper contributes to the discourse on XAI by presenting an empirical evaluation based on a novel framework: Sampling - Variational Auto Encoder (VAE) - Ensemble Anomaly Detection (SVEAD). It is a hybrid architecture where VAE combined with ensemble stacking and SHapley Additive exPlanations are used for imbalanced classification. The finding reveals that combining ensemble stacking, VAE, and SHAP can. not only lead to better model performance but also provide an easily explainable framework. This work has used SHAP combined with Permutation Importance and Individual Conditional Expectations to create a powerful interpretability of the model. The finding has an important implication in the real world, where the need for XAI is paramount to boost confidence in AI applications. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** An AI Chatbot for Explaining Deep Reinforcement Learning Decisions of  Service-oriented Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14391  
**Abstract:** Deep Reinforcement Learning (Deep RL) is increasingly used to cope with the open-world assumption in service-oriented systems. Deep RL was successfully applied to problems such as dynamic service composition, job scheduling, and offloading, as well as service adaptation. While Deep RL offers many benefits, understanding the decision-making of Deep RL is challenging because its learned decision-making policy essentially appears as a black box. Yet, understanding the decision-making of Deep RL is key to help service developers perform debugging, support service providers to comply with relevant legal frameworks, and facilitate service users to build trust. We introduce Chat4XAI to facilitate the understanding of the decision-making of Deep RL by providing natural-language explanations. Compared with visual explanations, the reported benefits of natural-language explanations include better understandability for non-technical users, increased user acceptance and trust, as well as more efficient explanations. Chat4XAI leverages modern AI chatbot technology and dedicated prompt engineering. Compared to earlier work on natural-language explanations using classical software-based dialogue systems, using an AI chatbot eliminates the need for eliciting and defining potential questions and answers up-front. We prototypically realize Chat4XAI using OpenAI's ChatGPT API and evaluate the fidelity and stability of its explanations using an adaptive service exemplar. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Multiple Noises in Diffusion Model for Semi-Supervised Multi-Domain  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14394  
**Abstract:** Domain-to-domain translation involves generating a target domain sample given a condition in the source domain. Most existing methods focus on fixed input and output domains, i.e. they only work for specific configurations (i.e. for two domains, either $D_1\rightarrow{}D_2$ or $D_2\rightarrow{}D_1$). This paper proposes Multi-Domain Diffusion (MDD), a conditional diffusion framework for multi-domain translation in a semi-supervised context. Unlike previous methods, MDD does not require defining input and output domains, allowing translation between any partition of domains within a set (such as $(D_1, D_2)\rightarrow{}D_3$, $D_2\rightarrow{}(D_1, D_3)$, $D_3\rightarrow{}D_1$, etc. for 3 domains), without the need to train separate models for each domain configuration. The key idea behind MDD is to leverage the noise formulation of diffusion models by incorporating one noise level per domain, which allows missing domains to be modeled with noise in a natural way. This transforms the training task from a simple reconstruction task to a domain translation task, where the model relies on less noisy domains to reconstruct more noisy domains. We present results on a multi-domain (with more than two domains) synthetic image translation dataset with challenging semantic domain inversion. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Guess & Sketch: Language Model Guided Transpilation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14396  
**Abstract:** Maintaining legacy software requires many software and systems engineering hours. Assembly code programs, which demand low-level control over the computer machine state and have no variable names, are particularly difficult for humans to analyze. Existing conventional program translators guarantee correctness, but are hand-engineered for the source and target programming languages in question. Learned transpilation, i.e. automatic translation of code, offers an alternative to manual re-writing and engineering efforts. Automated symbolic program translation approaches guarantee correctness but struggle to scale to longer programs due to the exponentially large search space. Their rigid rule-based systems also limit their expressivity, so they can only reason about a reduced space of programs. Probabilistic neural language models (LMs) produce plausible outputs for every input, but do so at the cost of guaranteed correctness. In this work, we leverage the strengths of LMs and symbolic solvers in a neurosymbolic approach to learned transpilation for assembly code. Assembly code is an appropriate setting for a neurosymbolic approach, since assembly code can be divided into shorter non-branching basic blocks amenable to the use of symbolic methods. Guess & Sketch extracts alignment and confidence information from features of the LM then passes it to a symbolic solver to resolve semantic equivalence of the transpilation input and output. We test Guess & Sketch on three different test sets of assembly transpilation tasks, varying in difficulty, and show that it successfully transpiles 57.6% more examples than GPT-4 and 39.6% more examples than an engineered transpiler. We also share a training and evaluation dataset for this task. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** More than Model Documentation: Uncovering Teachers' Bespoke Information  Needs for Informed Classroom Integration of ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14458  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT has entered classrooms, but not via the typical route of other educational technology, which includes comprehensive training, documentation, and vetting. Consequently, teachers are urgently tasked to assess its capabilities to determine potential effects on student learning and instruct their use of ChatGPT. However, it is unclear what support teachers have and need and whether existing documentation, such as model cards, provides adequate direction for educators in this new paradigm. By interviewing 22 middle- and high-school teachers, we connect the discourse on AI transparency and documentation with educational technology integration, highlighting the critical information needs of teachers. Our findings reveal that teachers confront significant information gaps, lacking clarity on exploring ChatGPT's capabilities for bespoke learning tasks and ensuring its fit with the needs of diverse learners. As a solution, we propose a framework for interactive model documentation that empowers teachers to navigate the interplay between pedagogical and technical knowledge. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** LogGPT: Log Anomaly Detection via GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14482  
**Abstract:** Detecting system anomalies based on log data is important for ensuring the security and reliability of computer systems. Recently, deep learning models have been widely used for log anomaly detection. The core idea is to model the log sequences as natural language and adopt deep sequential models, such as LSTM or Transformer, to encode the normal patterns in log sequences via language modeling. However, there is a gap between language modeling and anomaly detection as the objective of training a sequential model via a language modeling loss is not directly related to anomaly detection. To fill up the gap, we propose LogGPT, a novel framework that employs GPT for log anomaly detection. LogGPT is first trained to predict the next log entry based on the preceding sequence. To further enhance the performance of LogGPT, we propose a novel reinforcement learning strategy to finetune the model specifically for the log anomaly detection task. The experimental results on three datasets show that LogGPT significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** When Automated Assessment Meets Automated Content Generation: Examining  Text Quality in the Era of GPTs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14488  
**Abstract:** The use of machine learning (ML) models to assess and score textual data has become increasingly pervasive in an array of contexts including natural language processing, information retrieval, search and recommendation, and credibility assessment of online content. A significant disruption at the intersection of ML and text are text-generating large-language models such as generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs). We empirically assess the differences in how ML-based scoring models trained on human content assess the quality of content generated by humans versus GPTs. To do so, we propose an analysis framework that encompasses essay scoring ML-models, human and ML-generated essays, and a statistical model that parsimoniously considers the impact of type of respondent, prompt genre, and the ML model used for assessment model. A rich testbed is utilized that encompasses 18,460 human-generated and GPT-based essays. Results of our benchmark analysis reveal that transformer pretrained language models (PLMs) more accurately score human essay quality as compared to CNN/RNN and feature-based ML methods. Interestingly, we find that the transformer PLMs tend to score GPT-generated text 10-15\% higher on average, relative to human-authored documents. Conversely, traditional deep learning and feature-based ML models score human text considerably higher. Further analysis reveals that although the transformer PLMs are exclusively fine-tuned on human text, they more prominently attend to certain tokens appearing only in GPT-generated text, possibly due to familiarity/overlap in pre-training. Our framework and results have implications for text classification settings where automated scoring of text is likely to be disrupted by generative AI. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Free-Bloom: Zero-Shot Text-to-Video Generator with LLM Director and LDM  Animator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14494  
**Abstract:** Text-to-video is a rapidly growing research area that aims to generate a semantic, identical, and temporal coherence sequence of frames that accurately align with the input text prompt. This study focuses on zero-shot text-to-video generation considering the data- and cost-efficient. To generate a semantic-coherent video, exhibiting a rich portrayal of temporal semantics such as the whole process of flower blooming rather than a set of "moving images", we propose a novel Free-Bloom pipeline that harnesses large language models (LLMs) as the director to generate a semantic-coherence prompt sequence, while pre-trained latent diffusion models (LDMs) as the animator to generate the high fidelity frames. Furthermore, to ensure temporal and identical coherence while maintaining semantic coherence, we propose a series of annotative modifications to adapting LDMs in the reverse process, including joint noise sampling, step-aware attention shift, and dual-path interpolation. Without any video data and training requirements, Free-Bloom generates vivid and high-quality videos, awe-inspiring in generating complex scenes with semantic meaningful frame sequences. In addition, Free-Bloom is naturally compatible with LDMs-based extensions. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Assessment of IBM and NASA's geospatial foundation model in flood  inundation mapping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14500  
**Abstract:** Vision foundation models are a new frontier in GeoAI research because of their potential to enable powerful image analysis by learning and extracting important image features from vast amounts of geospatial data. This paper evaluates the performance of the first-of-its-kind geospatial foundation model, IBM-NASA's Prithvi, to support a crucial geospatial analysis task: flood inundation mapping. This model is compared with popular convolutional neural network and vision transformer-based architectures in terms of mapping accuracy for flooded areas. A benchmark dataset, Sen1Floods11, is used in the experiments, and the models' predictability, generalizability, and transferability are evaluated based on both a test dataset and a dataset that is completely unseen by the model. Results show the impressive transferability of the Prithvi model, highlighting its performance advantages in segmenting flooded areas in previously unseen regions. The findings also suggest areas for improvement for the Prithvi model in terms of adopting multi-scale representation learning, developing more end-to-end pipelines for high-level image analysis tasks, and offering more flexibility in terms of input data bands. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** DeepSpeed Ulysses: System Optimizations for Enabling Training of Extreme  Long Sequence Transformer Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14509  
**Abstract:** Computation in a typical Transformer-based large language model (LLM) can be characterized by batch size, hidden dimension, number of layers, and sequence length. Until now, system works for accelerating LLM training have focused on the first three dimensions: data parallelism for batch size, tensor parallelism for hidden size and pipeline parallelism for model depth or layers. These widely studied forms of parallelism are not targeted or optimized for long sequence Transformer models. Given practical application needs for long sequence LLM, renewed attentions are being drawn to sequence parallelism. However, existing works in sequence parallelism are constrained by memory-communication inefficiency, limiting their scalability to long sequence large models. In this work, we introduce DeepSpeed-Ulysses, a novel, portable and effective methodology for enabling highly efficient and scalable LLM training with extremely long sequence length. DeepSpeed-Ulysses at its core partitions input data along the sequence dimension and employs an efficient all-to-all collective communication for attention computation. Theoretical communication analysis shows that whereas other methods incur communication overhead as sequence length increases, DeepSpeed-Ulysses maintains constant communication volume when sequence length and compute devices are increased proportionally. Furthermore, experimental evaluations show that DeepSpeed-Ulysses trains 2.5X faster with 4X longer sequence length than the existing method SOTA baseline. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Watch Your Language: Large Language Models and Content Moderation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14517  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have exploded in popularity due to their ability to perform a wide array of natural language tasks. Text-based content moderation is one LLM use case that has received recent enthusiasm, however, there is little research investigating how LLMs perform in content moderation settings. In this work, we evaluate a suite of modern, commercial LLMs (GPT-3, GPT-3.5, GPT-4) on two common content moderation tasks: rule-based community moderation and toxic content detection. For rule-based community moderation, we construct 95 LLM moderation-engines prompted with rules from 95 Reddit subcommunities and find that LLMs can be effective at rule-based moderation for many communities, achieving a median accuracy of 64% and a median precision of 83%. For toxicity detection, we find that LLMs significantly outperform existing commercially available toxicity classifiers. However, we also find that recent increases in model size add only marginal benefit to toxicity detection, suggesting a potential performance plateau for LLMs on toxicity detection tasks. We conclude by outlining avenues for future work in studying LLMs and content moderation. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** ChatGPT Performance on Standardized Testing Exam -- A Proposed Strategy  for Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14519  
**Abstract:** This study explores the problem solving capabilities of ChatGPT and its prospective applications in standardized test preparation, focusing on the GRE quantitative exam. Prior research has shown great potential for the utilization of ChatGPT for academic purposes in revolutionizing the approach to studying across various disciplines. We investigate how ChatGPT performs across various question types in the GRE quantitative domain, and how modifying question prompts impacts its accuracy. More specifically this study addressed two research questions: 1. How does ChatGPT perform in answering GRE-based quantitative questions across various content areas? 2. How does the accuracy of ChatGPT vary with modifying the question prompts? The dataset consisting of 100 randomly selected GRE quantitative questions was collected from the ETS official guide to GRE test preparation. We used quantitative evaluation to answer our first research question, and t-test to examine the statistical association between prompt modification and ChatGPT's accuracy. Results show a statistical improvement in the ChatGPT's accuracy after applying instruction priming and contextual prompts to the original questions. ChatGPT showed 84% accuracy with the modified prompts compared to 69% with the original data. The study discusses the areas where ChatGPT struggled with certain questions and how modifications can be helpful for preparing for standardized tests like GRE and provides future directions for prompt modifications. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Aligning Large Multimodal Models with Factually Augmented RLHF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14525  
**Abstract:** Large Multimodal Models (LMM) are built across modalities and the misalignment between two modalities can result in "hallucination", generating textual outputs that are not grounded by the multimodal information in context. To address the multimodal misalignment issue, we adapt the Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) from the text domain to the task of vision-language alignment, where human annotators are asked to compare two responses and pinpoint the more hallucinated one, and the vision-language model is trained to maximize the simulated human rewards. We propose a new alignment algorithm called Factually Augmented RLHF that augments the reward model with additional factual information such as image captions and ground-truth multi-choice options, which alleviates the reward hacking phenomenon in RLHF and further improves the performance. We also enhance the GPT-4-generated training data (for vision instruction tuning) with previously available human-written image-text pairs to improve the general capabilities of our model. To evaluate the proposed approach in real-world scenarios, we develop a new evaluation benchmark MMHAL-BENCH with a special focus on penalizing hallucinations. As the first LMM trained with RLHF, our approach achieves remarkable improvement on the LLaVA-Bench dataset with the 94% performance level of the text-only GPT-4 (while previous best methods can only achieve the 87% level), and an improvement by 60% on MMHAL-BENCH over other baselines. We opensource our code, model, data at https://llava-rlhf.github.io. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Generative Escher Meshes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14564  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a fully-automatic, text-guided generative method for producing periodic, repeating, tile-able 2D art, such as the one seen on floors, mosaics, ceramics, and the work of M.C. Escher. In contrast to the standard concept of a seamless texture, i.e., square images that are seamless when tiled, our method generates non-square tilings which comprise solely of repeating copies of the same object. It achieves this by optimizing both geometry and color of a 2D mesh, in order to generate a non-square tile in the shape and appearance of the desired object, with close to no additional background details. We enable geometric optimization of tilings by our key technical contribution: an unconstrained, differentiable parameterization of the space of all possible tileable shapes for a given symmetry group. Namely, we prove that modifying the laplacian used in a 2D mesh-mapping technique - Orbifold Tutte Embedding - can achieve all possible tiling configurations for a chosen planar symmetry group. We thus consider both the mesh's tile-shape and its texture as optimizable parameters, rendering the textured mesh via a differentiable renderer. We leverage a trained image diffusion model to define a loss on the resulting image, thereby updating the mesh's parameters based on its appearance matching the text prompt. We show our method is able to produce plausible, appealing results, with non-trivial tiles, for a variety of different periodic tiling patterns. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** CWCL: Cross-Modal Transfer with Continuously Weighted Contrastive Loss  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14580  
**Abstract:** This paper considers contrastive training for cross-modal 0-shot transfer wherein a pre-trained model in one modality is used for representation learning in another domain using pairwise data. The learnt models in the latter domain can then be used for a diverse set of tasks in a zero-shot way, similar to ``Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP)'' and ``Locked-image Tuning (LiT)'' that have recently gained considerable attention. Most existing works for cross-modal representation alignment (including CLIP and LiT) use the standard contrastive training objective, which employs sets of positive and negative examples to align similar and repel dissimilar training data samples. However, similarity amongst training examples has a more continuous nature, thus calling for a more `non-binary' treatment. To address this, we propose a novel loss function called Continuously Weighted Contrastive Loss (CWCL) that employs a continuous measure of similarity. With CWCL, we seek to align the embedding space of one modality with another. Owing to the continuous nature of similarity in the proposed loss function, these models outperform existing methods for 0-shot transfer across multiple models, datasets and modalities. Particularly, we consider the modality pairs of image-text and speech-text and our models achieve 5-8% (absolute) improvement over previous state-of-the-art methods in 0-shot image classification and 20-30% (absolute) improvement in 0-shot speech-to-intent classification and keyword classification. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Speech Audio Synthesis from Tagged MRI and Non-Negative Matrix  Factorization via Plastic Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14586  
**Abstract:** The tongue's intricate 3D structure, comprising localized functional units, plays a crucial role in the production of speech. When measured using tagged MRI, these functional units exhibit cohesive displacements and derived quantities that facilitate the complex process of speech production. Non-negative matrix factorization-based approaches have been shown to estimate the functional units through motion features, yielding a set of building blocks and a corresponding weighting map. Investigating the link between weighting maps and speech acoustics can offer significant insights into the intricate process of speech production. To this end, in this work, we utilize two-dimensional spectrograms as a proxy representation, and develop an end-to-end deep learning framework for translating weighting maps to their corresponding audio waveforms. Our proposed plastic light transformer (PLT) framework is based on directional product relative position bias and single-level spatial pyramid pooling, thus enabling flexible processing of weighting maps with variable size to fixed-size spectrograms, without input information loss or dimension expansion. Additionally, our PLT framework efficiently models the global correlation of wide matrix input. To improve the realism of our generated spectrograms with relatively limited training samples, we apply pair-wise utterance consistency with Maximum Mean Discrepancy constraint and adversarial training. Experimental results on a dataset of 29 subjects speaking two utterances demonstrated that our framework is able to synthesize speech audio waveforms from weighting maps, outperforming conventional convolution and transformer models. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Efficient Post-training Quantization with FP8 Formats  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14592  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in deep learning methods such as LLMs and Diffusion models have created a need for improved quantization methods that can meet the computational demands of these modern architectures while maintaining accuracy. Towards this goal, we study the advantages of FP8 data formats for post-training quantization across 75 unique network architectures covering a wide range of tasks, including machine translation, language modeling, text generation, image classification, generation, and segmentation. We examine three different FP8 representations (E5M2, E4M3, and E3M4) to study the effects of varying degrees of trade-off between dynamic range and precision on model accuracy. Based on our extensive study, we developed a quantization workflow that generalizes across different network architectures. Our empirical results show that FP8 formats outperform INT8 in multiple aspects, including workload coverage (92.64% vs. 65.87%), model accuracy and suitability for a broader range of operations. Furthermore, our findings suggest that E4M3 is better suited for NLP models, whereas E3M4 performs marginally better than E4M3 on computer vision tasks. The code is publicly available on Intel Neural Compressor: https://github.com/intel/neural-compressor. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Event Stream-based Visual Object Tracking: A High-Resolution Benchmark  Dataset and A Novel Baseline  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14611  
**Abstract:** Tracking using bio-inspired event cameras has drawn more and more attention in recent years. Existing works either utilize aligned RGB and event data for accurate tracking or directly learn an event-based tracker. The first category needs more cost for inference and the second one may be easily influenced by noisy events or sparse spatial resolution. In this paper, we propose a novel hierarchical knowledge distillation framework that can fully utilize multi-modal / multi-view information during training to facilitate knowledge transfer, enabling us to achieve high-speed and low-latency visual tracking during testing by using only event signals. Specifically, a teacher Transformer-based multi-modal tracking framework is first trained by feeding the RGB frame and event stream simultaneously. Then, we design a new hierarchical knowledge distillation strategy which includes pairwise similarity, feature representation, and response maps-based knowledge distillation to guide the learning of the student Transformer network. Moreover, since existing event-based tracking datasets are all low-resolution ($346 \times 260$), we propose the first large-scale high-resolution ($1280 \times 720$) dataset named EventVOT. It contains 1141 videos and covers a wide range of categories such as pedestrians, vehicles, UAVs, ping pongs, etc. Extensive experiments on both low-resolution (FE240hz, VisEvent, COESOT), and our newly proposed high-resolution EventVOT dataset fully validated the effectiveness of our proposed method. The dataset, evaluation toolkit, and source code are available on \url{https://github.com/Event-AHU/EventVOT_Benchmark} 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** CoFiI2P: Coarse-to-Fine Correspondences for Image-to-Point Cloud  Registration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14660  
**Abstract:** Image-to-point cloud (I2P) registration is a fundamental task in the fields of robot navigation and mobile mapping. Existing I2P registration works estimate correspondences at the point-to-pixel level, neglecting the global alignment. However, I2P matching without high-level guidance from global constraints may converge to the local optimum easily. To solve the problem, this paper proposes CoFiI2P, a novel I2P registration network that extracts correspondences in a coarse-to-fine manner for the global optimal solution. First, the image and point cloud are fed into a Siamese encoder-decoder network for hierarchical feature extraction. Then, a coarse-to-fine matching module is designed to exploit features and establish resilient feature correspondences. Specifically, in the coarse matching block, a novel I2P transformer module is employed to capture the homogeneous and heterogeneous global information from image and point cloud. With the discriminate descriptors, coarse super-point-to-super-pixel matching pairs are estimated. In the fine matching module, point-to-pixel pairs are established with the super-point-to-super-pixel correspondence supervision. Finally, based on matching pairs, the transform matrix is estimated with the EPnP-RANSAC algorithm. Extensive experiments conducted on the KITTI dataset have demonstrated that CoFiI2P achieves a relative rotation error (RRE) of 2.25 degrees and a relative translation error (RTE) of 0.61 meters. These results represent a significant improvement of 14% in RRE and 52% in RTE compared to the current state-of-the-art (SOTA) method. The demo video for the experiments is available at https://youtu.be/TG2GBrJTuW4. The source code will be public at https://github.com/kang-1-2-3/CoFiI2P. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Leveraging Herpangina Data to Enhance Hospital-level Prediction of  Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease Admissions Using UPTST  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14674  
**Abstract:** Outbreaks of hand-foot-and-mouth disease(HFMD) have been associated with significant morbidity and, in severe cases, mortality. Accurate forecasting of daily admissions of pediatric HFMD patients is therefore crucial for aiding the hospital in preparing for potential outbreaks and mitigating nosocomial transmissions. To address this pressing need, we propose a novel transformer-based model with a U-net shape, utilizing the patching strategy and the joint prediction strategy that capitalizes on insights from herpangina, a disease closely correlated with HFMD. This model also integrates representation learning by introducing reconstruction loss as an auxiliary loss. The results show that our U-net Patching Time Series Transformer (UPTST) model outperforms existing approaches in both long- and short-arm prediction accuracy of HFMD at hospital-level. Furthermore, the exploratory extension experiments show that the model's capabilities extend beyond prediction of infectious disease, suggesting broader applicability in various domains. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** XGV-BERT: Leveraging Contextualized Language Model and Graph Neural  Network for Efficient Software Vulnerability Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14677  
**Abstract:** With the advancement of deep learning (DL) in various fields, there are many attempts to reveal software vulnerabilities by data-driven approach. Nonetheless, such existing works lack the effective representation that can retain the non-sequential semantic characteristics and contextual relationship of source code attributes. Hence, in this work, we propose XGV-BERT, a framework that combines the pre-trained CodeBERT model and Graph Neural Network (GCN) to detect software vulnerabilities. By jointly training the CodeBERT and GCN modules within XGV-BERT, the proposed model leverages the advantages of large-scale pre-training, harnessing vast raw data, and transfer learning by learning representations for training data through graph convolution. The research results demonstrate that the XGV-BERT method significantly improves vulnerability detection accuracy compared to two existing methods such as VulDeePecker and SySeVR. For the VulDeePecker dataset, XGV-BERT achieves an impressive F1-score of 97.5%, significantly outperforming VulDeePecker, which achieved an F1-score of 78.3%. Again, with the SySeVR dataset, XGV-BERT achieves an F1-score of 95.5%, surpassing the results of SySeVR with an F1-score of 83.5%. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** A Simple Text to Video Model via Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14683  
**Abstract:** We present a general and simple text to video model based on Transformer. Since both text and video are sequential data, we encode both texts and images into the same hidden space, which are further fed into Transformer to capture the temporal consistency and then decoder to generate either text or images. Considering the image signal may become weak in the long sequence, we introduce the U-Net to reconstruct image from its noised version. Specifically, we increase the noise level to the original image in the long sequence, then use the $down$ module from U-Net to encode noised images, which are further input to transformer to predict next clear images. We also add a constraint to promote motion between any generated image pair in the video. We use GPT2 and test our approach on UCF101 dataset and show it can generate promising videos. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Structure Invariant Transformation for better Adversarial  Transferability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14700  
**Abstract:** Given the severe vulnerability of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) against adversarial examples, there is an urgent need for an effective adversarial attack to identify the deficiencies of DNNs in security-sensitive applications. As one of the prevalent black-box adversarial attacks, the existing transfer-based attacks still cannot achieve comparable performance with the white-box attacks. Among these, input transformation based attacks have shown remarkable effectiveness in boosting transferability. In this work, we find that the existing input transformation based attacks transform the input image globally, resulting in limited diversity of the transformed images. We postulate that the more diverse transformed images result in better transferability. Thus, we investigate how to locally apply various transformations onto the input image to improve such diversity while preserving the structure of image. To this end, we propose a novel input transformation based attack, called Structure Invariant Attack (SIA), which applies a random image transformation onto each image block to craft a set of diverse images for gradient calculation. Extensive experiments on the standard ImageNet dataset demonstrate that SIA exhibits much better transferability than the existing SOTA input transformation based attacks on CNN-based and transformer-based models, showing its generality and superiority in boosting transferability. Code is available at https://github.com/xiaosen-wang/SIT. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Tile Classification Based Viewport Prediction with Multi-modal Fusion  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14704  
**Abstract:** Viewport prediction is a crucial aspect of tile-based 360 video streaming system. However, existing trajectory based methods lack of robustness, also oversimplify the process of information construction and fusion between different modality inputs, leading to the error accumulation problem. In this paper, we propose a tile classification based viewport prediction method with Multi-modal Fusion Transformer, namely MFTR. Specifically, MFTR utilizes transformer-based networks to extract the long-range dependencies within each modality, then mine intra- and inter-modality relations to capture the combined impact of user historical inputs and video contents on future viewport selection. In addition, MFTR categorizes future tiles into two categories: user interested or not, and selects future viewport as the region that contains most user interested tiles. Comparing with predicting head trajectories, choosing future viewport based on tile's binary classification results exhibits better robustness and interpretability. To evaluate our proposed MFTR, we conduct extensive experiments on two widely used PVS-HM and Xu-Gaze dataset. MFTR shows superior performance over state-of-the-art methods in terms of average prediction accuracy and overlap ratio, also presents competitive computation efficiency. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Bootstrap Diffusion Model Curve Estimation for High Resolution Low-Light  Image Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14709  
**Abstract:** Learning-based methods have attracted a lot of research attention and led to significant improvements in low-light image enhancement. However, most of them still suffer from two main problems: expensive computational cost in high resolution images and unsatisfactory performance in simultaneous enhancement and denoising. To address these problems, we propose BDCE, a bootstrap diffusion model that exploits the learning of the distribution of the curve parameters instead of the normal-light image itself. Specifically, we adopt the curve estimation method to handle the high-resolution images, where the curve parameters are estimated by our bootstrap diffusion model. In addition, a denoise module is applied in each iteration of curve adjustment to denoise the intermediate enhanced result of each iteration. We evaluate BDCE on commonly used benchmark datasets, and extensive experiments show that it achieves state-of-the-art qualitative and quantitative performance. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Comparative Analysis of Artificial Intelligence for Indian Legal  Question Answering (AILQA) Using Different Retrieval and QA Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14735  
**Abstract:** Legal question-answering (QA) systems have the potential to revolutionize the way legal professionals interact with case law documents. This paper conducts a comparative analysis of existing artificial intelligence models for their utility in answering legal questions within the Indian legal system, specifically focusing on Indian Legal Question Answering (AILQA) and our study investigates the efficacy of different retrieval and QA algorithms currently available. Utilizing the OpenAI GPT model as a benchmark, along with query prompts, our investigation shows that existing AILQA systems can automatically interpret natural language queries from users and generate highly accurate responses. This research is particularly focused on applications within the Indian criminal justice domain, which has its own set of challenges due to its complexity and resource constraints. In order to rigorously assess the performance of these models, empirical evaluations are complemented by feedback from practicing legal professionals, thereby offering a multifaceted view on the capabilities and limitations of AI in the context of Indian legal question-answering. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Text-image guided Diffusion Model for generating Deepfake celebrity  interactions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14751  
**Abstract:** Deepfake images are fast becoming a serious concern due to their realism. Diffusion models have recently demonstrated highly realistic visual content generation, which makes them an excellent potential tool for Deepfake generation. To curb their exploitation for Deepfakes, it is imperative to first explore the extent to which diffusion models can be used to generate realistic content that is controllable with convenient prompts. This paper devises and explores a novel method in that regard. Our technique alters the popular stable diffusion model to generate a controllable high-quality Deepfake image with text and image prompts. In addition, the original stable model lacks severely in generating quality images that contain multiple persons. The modified diffusion model is able to address this problem, it add input anchor image's latent at the beginning of inferencing rather than Gaussian random latent as input. Hence, we focus on generating forged content for celebrity interactions, which may be used to spread rumors. We also apply Dreambooth to enhance the realism of our fake images. Dreambooth trains the pairing of center words and specific features to produce more refined and personalized output images. Our results show that with the devised scheme, it is possible to create fake visual content with alarming realism, such that the content can serve as believable evidence of meetings between powerful political figures. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** On quantifying and improving realism of images generated with diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14756  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in diffusion models have led to a quantum leap in the quality of generative visual content. However, quantification of realism of the content is still challenging. Existing evaluation metrics, such as Inception Score and Fr\'echet inception distance, fall short on benchmarking diffusion models due to the versatility of the generated images. Moreover, they are not designed to quantify realism of an individual image. This restricts their application in forensic image analysis, which is becoming increasingly important in the emerging era of generative models. To address that, we first propose a metric, called Image Realism Score (IRS), computed from five statistical measures of a given image. This non-learning based metric not only efficiently quantifies realism of the generated images, it is readily usable as a measure to classify a given image as real or fake. We experimentally establish the model- and data-agnostic nature of the proposed IRS by successfully detecting fake images generated by Stable Diffusion Model (SDM), Dalle2, Midjourney and BigGAN. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Diffusion-based Holistic Texture Rectification and Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14759  
**Abstract:** We present a novel framework for rectifying occlusions and distortions in degraded texture samples from natural images. Traditional texture synthesis approaches focus on generating textures from pristine samples, which necessitate meticulous preparation by humans and are often unattainable in most natural images. These challenges stem from the frequent occlusions and distortions of texture samples in natural images due to obstructions and variations in object surface geometry. To address these issues, we propose a framework that synthesizes holistic textures from degraded samples in natural images, extending the applicability of exemplar-based texture synthesis techniques. Our framework utilizes a conditional Latent Diffusion Model (LDM) with a novel occlusion-aware latent transformer. This latent transformer not only effectively encodes texture features from partially-observed samples necessary for the generation process of the LDM, but also explicitly captures long-range dependencies in samples with large occlusions. To train our model, we introduce a method for generating synthetic data by applying geometric transformations and free-form mask generation to clean textures. Experimental results demonstrate that our framework significantly outperforms existing methods both quantitatively and quantitatively. Furthermore, we conduct comprehensive ablation studies to validate the different components of our proposed framework. Results are corroborated by a perceptual user study which highlights the efficiency of our proposed approach. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** KERMIT: Knowledge Graph Completion of Enhanced Relation Modeling with  Inverse Transformation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14770  
**Abstract:** Knowledge graph completion is a task that revolves around filling in missing triples based on the information available in a knowledge graph. Among the current studies, text-based methods complete the task by utilizing textual descriptions of triples. However, this modeling approach may encounter limitations, particularly when the description fails to accurately and adequately express the intended meaning. To overcome these challenges, we propose the augmentation of data through two additional mechanisms. Firstly, we employ ChatGPT as an external knowledge base to generate coherent descriptions to bridge the semantic gap between the queries and answers. Secondly, we leverage inverse relations to create a symmetric graph, thereby creating extra labeling and providing supplementary information for link prediction. This approach offers additional insights into the relationships between entities. Through these efforts, we have observed significant improvements in knowledge graph completion, as these mechanisms enhance the richness and diversity of the available data, leading to more accurate results. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Boosting In-Context Learning with Factual Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14771  
**Abstract:** In-Context Learning (ICL) over Large language models (LLMs) aims at solving previously unseen tasks by conditioning on a few training examples, eliminating the need for parameter updates and achieving competitive performance. In this paper, we demonstrate that factual knowledge is imperative for the performance of ICL in three core facets, i.e., the inherent knowledge learned in LLMs, the factual knowledge derived from the selected in-context examples, and the knowledge biases in LLMs for output generation. To unleash the power of LLMs in few-shot learning scenarios, we introduce a novel Knowledgeable In-Context Tuning (KICT) framework to further improve the performance of ICL: 1) injecting factual knowledge to LLMs during continual self-supervised pre-training, 2) judiciously selecting the examples with high knowledge relevance, and 3) calibrating the prediction results based on prior knowledge. We evaluate the proposed approaches on auto-regressive LLMs (e.g., GPT-style models) over multiple text classification and question answering tasks. Experimental results demonstrate that KICT substantially outperforms strong baselines, and improves by more than 13% and 7% of accuracy on text classification and question answering tasks, respectively. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Exploring Small Language Models with Prompt-Learning Paradigm for  Efficient Domain-Specific Text Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14779  
**Abstract:** Domain-specific text classification faces the challenge of scarce labeled data due to the high cost of manual labeling. Prompt-learning, known for its efficiency in few-shot scenarios, is proposed as an alternative to traditional fine-tuning methods. And besides, although large language models (LLMs) have gained prominence, small language models (SLMs, with under 1B parameters) offer significant customizability, adaptability, and cost-effectiveness for domain-specific tasks, given industry constraints. In this study, we investigate the potential of SLMs combined with prompt-learning paradigm for domain-specific text classification, specifically within customer-agent interactions in retail. Our evaluations show that, in few-shot settings when prompt-based model fine-tuning is possible, T5-base, a typical SLM with 220M parameters, achieve approximately 75% accuracy with limited labeled data (up to 15% of full data), which shows great potentials of SLMs with prompt-learning. Based on this, We further validate the effectiveness of active few-shot sampling and the ensemble strategy in the prompt-learning pipeline that contribute to a remarkable performance gain. Besides, in zero-shot settings with a fixed model, we underscore a pivotal observation that, although the GPT-3.5-turbo equipped with around 154B parameters garners an accuracy of 55.16%, the power of well designed prompts becomes evident when the FLAN-T5-large, a model with a mere 0.5% of GPT-3.5-turbo's parameters, achieves an accuracy exceeding 31% with the optimized prompt, a leap from its sub-18% performance with an unoptimized one. Our findings underscore the promise of prompt-learning in classification tasks with SLMs, emphasizing the benefits of active few-shot sampling, and ensemble strategies in few-shot settings, and the importance of prompt engineering in zero-shot settings. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** 3D Density-Gradient based Edge Detection on Neural Radiance Fields  (NeRFs) for Geometric Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14800  
**Abstract:** Generating geometric 3D reconstructions from Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) is of great interest. However, accurate and complete reconstructions based on the density values are challenging. The network output depends on input data, NeRF network configuration and hyperparameter. As a result, the direct usage of density values, e.g. via filtering with global density thresholds, usually requires empirical investigations. Under the assumption that the density increases from non-object to object area, the utilization of density gradients from relative values is evident. As the density represents a position-dependent parameter it can be handled anisotropically, therefore processing of the voxelized 3D density field is justified. In this regard, we address geometric 3D reconstructions based on density gradients, whereas the gradients result from 3D edge detection filters of the first and second derivatives, namely Sobel, Canny and Laplacian of Gaussian. The gradients rely on relative neighboring density values in all directions, thus are independent from absolute magnitudes. Consequently, gradient filters are able to extract edges along a wide density range, almost independent from assumptions and empirical investigations. Our approach demonstrates the capability to achieve geometric 3D reconstructions with high geometric accuracy on object surfaces and remarkable object completeness. Notably, Canny filter effectively eliminates gaps, delivers a uniform point density, and strikes a favorable balance between correctness and completeness across the scenes. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Fine-tuning and aligning question answering models for complex  information extraction tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14805  
**Abstract:** The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) has boosted performance and possibilities in various NLP tasks. While the usage of generative AI models like ChatGPT opens up new opportunities for several business use cases, their current tendency to hallucinate fake content strongly limits their applicability to document analysis, such as information retrieval from documents. In contrast, extractive language models like question answering (QA) or passage retrieval models guarantee query results to be found within the boundaries of an according context document, which makes them candidates for more reliable information extraction in productive environments of companies. In this work we propose an approach that uses and integrates extractive QA models for improved feature extraction of German business documents such as insurance reports or medical leaflets into a document analysis solution. We further show that fine-tuning existing German QA models boosts performance for tailored extraction tasks of complex linguistic features like damage cause explanations or descriptions of medication appearance, even with using only a small set of annotated data. Finally, we discuss the relevance of scoring metrics for evaluating information extraction tasks and deduce a combined metric from Levenshtein distance, F1-Score, Exact Match and ROUGE-L to mimic the assessment criteria from human experts. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Supersonic: Learning to Generate Source Code Optimisations in C/C++  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14846  
**Abstract:** Software optimization refines programs for resource efficiency while preserving functionality. Traditionally, it is a process done by developers and compilers. This paper introduces a third option, automated optimization at the source code level. We present Supersonic, a neural approach targeting minor source code modifications for optimization. Using a seq2seq model, Supersonic is trained on C/C++ program pairs ($x_{t}$, $x_{t+1}$), where $x_{t+1}$ is an optimized version of $x_{t}$, and outputs a diff. Supersonic's performance is benchmarked against OpenAI's GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4 on competitive programming tasks. The experiments show that Supersonic not only outperforms both models on the code optimization task, but also minimizes the extent of change with a more than 600x smaller than GPT-3.5-Turbo and 3700x smaller than GPT-4. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Navigating Text-To-Image Customization:From LyCORIS Fine-Tuning to Model  Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14859  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image generative models have garnered immense attention for their ability to produce high-fidelity images from text prompts. Among these, Stable Diffusion distinguishes itself as a leading open-source model in this fast-growing field. However, the intricacies of fine-tuning these models pose multiple challenges from new methodology integration to systematic evaluation. Addressing these issues, this paper introduces LyCORIS (Lora beYond Conventional methods, Other Rank adaptation Implementations for Stable diffusion) [https://github.com/KohakuBlueleaf/LyCORIS], an open-source library that offers a wide selection of fine-tuning methodologies for Stable Diffusion. Furthermore, we present a thorough framework for the systematic assessment of varied fine-tuning techniques. This framework employs a diverse suite of metrics and delves into multiple facets of fine-tuning, including hyperparameter adjustments and the evaluation with different prompt types across various concept categories. Through this comprehensive approach, our work provides essential insights into the nuanced effects of fine-tuning parameters, bridging the gap between state-of-the-art research and practical application. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Cross-Dataset-Robust Method for Blind Real-World Image Quality  Assessment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14868  
**Abstract:** Although many effective models and real-world datasets have been presented for blind image quality assessment (BIQA), recent BIQA models usually tend to fit specific training set. Hence, it is still difficult to accurately and robustly measure the visual quality of an arbitrary real-world image. In this paper, a robust BIQA method, is designed based on three aspects, i.e., robust training strategy, large-scale real-world dataset, and powerful backbone. First, many individual models based on popular and state-of-the-art (SOTA) Swin-Transformer (SwinT) are trained on different real-world BIQA datasets respectively. Then, these biased SwinT-based models are jointly used to generate pseudo-labels, which adopts the probability of relative quality of two random images instead of fixed quality score. A large-scale real-world image dataset with 1,000,000 image pairs and pseudo-labels is then proposed for training the final cross-dataset-robust model. Experimental results on cross-dataset tests show that the performance of the proposed method is even better than some SOTA methods that are directly trained on these datasets, thus verifying the robustness and generalization of our method. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** ITEM3D: Illumination-Aware Directional Texture Editing for 3D Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14872  
**Abstract:** Texture editing is a crucial task in 3D modeling that allows users to automatically manipulate the surface materials of 3D models. However, the inherent complexity of 3D models and the ambiguous text description lead to the challenge in this task. To address this challenge, we propose ITEM3D, an illumination-aware model for automatic 3D object editing according to the text prompts. Leveraging the diffusion models and the differentiable rendering, ITEM3D takes the rendered images as the bridge of text and 3D representation, and further optimizes the disentangled texture and environment map. Previous methods adopt the absolute editing direction namely score distillation sampling (SDS) as the optimization objective, which unfortunately results in the noisy appearance and text inconsistency. To solve the problem caused by the ambiguous text, we introduce a relative editing direction, an optimization objective defined by the noise difference between the source and target texts, to release the semantic ambiguity between the texts and images. Additionally, we gradually adjust the direction during optimization to further address the unexpected deviation in the texture domain. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our ITEM3D outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on various 3D objects. We also perform text-guided relighting to show explicit control over lighting. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Face Cartoonisation For Various Poses Using StyleGAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14908  
**Abstract:** This paper presents an innovative approach to achieve face cartoonisation while preserving the original identity and accommodating various poses. Unlike previous methods in this field that relied on conditional-GANs, which posed challenges related to dataset requirements and pose training, our approach leverages the expressive latent space of StyleGAN. We achieve this by introducing an encoder that captures both pose and identity information from images and generates a corresponding embedding within the StyleGAN latent space. By subsequently passing this embedding through a pre-trained generator, we obtain the desired cartoonised output. While many other approaches based on StyleGAN necessitate a dedicated and fine-tuned StyleGAN model, our method stands out by utilizing an already-trained StyleGAN designed to produce realistic facial images. We show by extensive experimentation how our encoder adapts the StyleGAN output to better preserve identity when the objective is cartoonisation. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** A Democratic Platform for Engaging with Disabled Community in Generative  AI Development  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14921  
**Abstract:** Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems, especially generative AI technologies are becoming more relevant in our society. Tools like ChatGPT are being used by members of the disabled community e.g., Autistic people may use it to help compose emails. The growing impact and popularity of generative AI tools have prompted us to examine their relevance within the disabled community. The design and development phases often neglect this marginalized group, leading to inaccurate predictions and unfair discrimination directed towards them. This could result from bias in data sets, algorithms, and systems at various phases of creation and implementation. This workshop paper proposes a platform to involve the disabled community while building generative AI systems. With this platform, our aim is to gain insight into the factors that contribute to bias in the outputs generated by generative AI when used by the disabled community. Furthermore, we expect to comprehend which algorithmic factors are the main contributors to the output's incorrectness or irrelevancy. The proposed platform calls on both disabled and non-disabled people from various geographical and cultural backgrounds to collaborate asynchronously and remotely in a democratic approach to decision-making. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** FEC: Three Finetuning-free Methods to Enhance Consistency for Real Image  Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14934  
**Abstract:** Text-conditional image editing is a very useful task that has recently emerged with immeasurable potential. Most current real image editing methods first need to complete the reconstruction of the image, and then editing is carried out by various methods based on the reconstruction. Most methods use DDIM Inversion for reconstruction, however, DDIM Inversion often fails to guarantee reconstruction performance, i.e., it fails to produce results that preserve the original image content. To address the problem of reconstruction failure, we propose FEC, which consists of three sampling methods, each designed for different editing types and settings. Our three methods of FEC achieve two important goals in image editing task: 1) ensuring successful reconstruction, i.e., sampling to get a generated result that preserves the texture and features of the original real image. 2) these sampling methods can be paired with many editing methods and greatly improve the performance of these editing methods to accomplish various editing tasks. In addition, none of our sampling methods require fine-tuning of the diffusion model or time-consuming training on large-scale datasets. Hence the cost of time as well as the use of computer memory and computation can be significantly reduced. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Robust Sequential DeepFake Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14991  
**Abstract:** Since photorealistic faces can be readily generated by facial manipulation technologies nowadays, potential malicious abuse of these technologies has drawn great concerns. Numerous deepfake detection methods are thus proposed. However, existing methods only focus on detecting one-step facial manipulation. As the emergence of easy-accessible facial editing applications, people can easily manipulate facial components using multi-step operations in a sequential manner. This new threat requires us to detect a sequence of facial manipulations, which is vital for both detecting deepfake media and recovering original faces afterwards. Motivated by this observation, we emphasize the need and propose a novel research problem called Detecting Sequential DeepFake Manipulation (Seq-DeepFake). Unlike the existing deepfake detection task only demanding a binary label prediction, detecting Seq-DeepFake manipulation requires correctly predicting a sequential vector of facial manipulation operations. To support a large-scale investigation, we construct the first Seq-DeepFake dataset, where face images are manipulated sequentially with corresponding annotations of sequential facial manipulation vectors. Based on this new dataset, we cast detecting Seq-DeepFake manipulation as a specific image-to-sequence task and propose a concise yet effective Seq-DeepFake Transformer (SeqFakeFormer). To better reflect real-world deepfake data distributions, we further apply various perturbations on the original Seq-DeepFake dataset and construct the more challenging Sequential DeepFake dataset with perturbations (Seq-DeepFake-P). To exploit deeper correlation between images and sequences when facing Seq-DeepFake-P, a dedicated Seq-DeepFake Transformer with Image-Sequence Reasoning (SeqFakeFormer++) is devised, which builds stronger correspondence between image-sequence pairs for more robust Seq-DeepFake detection. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Exploring ChatGPT Approach to Bidirectional Traceability Problem between  Design Models and Code  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14992  
**Abstract:** This study explores the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly OpenAI's ChatGPT, in addressing the challenges associated with software modeling, explicitly focusing on the bidirectional traceability problem between design models and code. The objective of this study is to demonstrate the proficiency of ChatGPT in understanding and integrating specific requirements into design models and code and its potential to offer solutions to the bidirectional traceability problem through a case study. The findings indicate that ChatGPT is capable of generating design models and code from natural language requirements, thereby bridging the gap between these requirements and software modeling. Despite its limitations in suggesting a specific method to resolve the problem using ChatGPT itself, it exhibited the capacity to provide corrections to be consistent between design models and code. As a result, the study concludes that achieving bidirectional traceability between design models and code is feasible using ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Measurement Models For Sailboats Price vs. Features And Regional Areas  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14994  
**Abstract:** In this study, we investigated the relationship between sailboat technical specifications and their prices, as well as regional pricing influences. Utilizing a dataset encompassing characteristics like length, beam, draft, displacement, sail area, and waterline, we applied multiple machine learning models to predict sailboat prices. The gradient descent model demonstrated superior performance, producing the lowest MSE and MAE. Our analysis revealed that monohulled boats are generally more affordable than catamarans, and that certain specifications such as length, beam, displacement, and sail area directly correlate with higher prices. Interestingly, lower draft was associated with higher listing prices. We also explored regional price determinants and found that the United States tops the list in average sailboat prices, followed by Europe, Hong Kong, and the Caribbean. Contrary to our initial hypothesis, a country's GDP showed no direct correlation with sailboat prices. Utilizing a 50% cross-validation method, our models yielded consistent results across test groups. Our research offers a machine learning-enhanced perspective on sailboat pricing, aiding prospective buyers in making informed decisions. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Automating question generation from educational text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15004  
**Abstract:** The use of question-based activities (QBAs) is wide-spread in education, traditionally forming an integral part of the learning and assessment process. In this paper, we design and evaluate an automated question generation tool for formative and summative assessment in schools. We present an expert survey of one hundred and four teachers, demonstrating the need for automated generation of QBAs, as a tool that can significantly reduce the workload of teachers and facilitate personalized learning experiences. Leveraging the recent advancements in generative AI, we then present a modular framework employing transformer based language models for automatic generation of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) from textual content. The presented solution, with distinct modules for question generation, correct answer prediction, and distractor formulation, enables us to evaluate different language models and generation techniques. Finally, we perform an extensive quantitative and qualitative evaluation, demonstrating trade-offs in the use of different techniques and models. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Question-Answering Approach to Evaluate Legal Summaries  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15016  
**Abstract:** Traditional evaluation metrics like ROUGE compare lexical overlap between the reference and generated summaries without taking argumentative structure into account, which is important for legal summaries. In this paper, we propose a novel legal summarization evaluation framework that utilizes GPT-4 to generate a set of question-answer pairs that cover main points and information in the reference summary. GPT-4 is then used to generate answers based on the generated summary for the questions from the reference summary. Finally, GPT-4 grades the answers from the reference summary and the generated summary. We examined the correlation between GPT-4 grading with human grading. The results suggest that this question-answering approach with GPT-4 can be a useful tool for gauging the quality of the summary. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** IFT: Image Fusion Transformer for Ghost-free High Dynamic Range Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15019  
**Abstract:** Multi-frame high dynamic range (HDR) imaging aims to reconstruct ghost-free images with photo-realistic details from content-complementary but spatially misaligned low dynamic range (LDR) images. Existing HDR algorithms are prone to producing ghosting artifacts as their methods fail to capture long-range dependencies between LDR frames with large motion in dynamic scenes. To address this issue, we propose a novel image fusion transformer, referred to as IFT, which presents a fast global patch searching (FGPS) module followed by a self-cross fusion module (SCF) for ghost-free HDR imaging. The FGPS searches the patches from supporting frames that have the closest dependency to each patch of the reference frame for long-range dependency modeling, while the SCF conducts intra-frame and inter-frame feature fusion on the patches obtained by the FGPS with linear complexity to input resolution. By matching similar patches between frames, objects with large motion ranges in dynamic scenes can be aligned, which can effectively alleviate the generation of artifacts. In addition, the proposed FGPS and SCF can be integrated into various deep HDR methods as efficient plug-in modules. Extensive experiments on multiple benchmarks show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance both quantitatively and qualitatively. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Language-EXtended Indoor SLAM (LEXIS): A Versatile System for Real-time  Visual Scene Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15065  
**Abstract:** Versatile and adaptive semantic understanding would enable autonomous systems to comprehend and interact with their surroundings. Existing fixed-class models limit the adaptability of indoor mobile and assistive autonomous systems. In this work, we introduce LEXIS, a real-time indoor Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) system that harnesses the open-vocabulary nature of Large Language Models (LLMs) to create a unified approach to scene understanding and place recognition. The approach first builds a topological SLAM graph of the environment (using visual-inertial odometry) and embeds Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining (CLIP) features in the graph nodes. We use this representation for flexible room classification and segmentation, serving as a basis for room-centric place recognition. This allows loop closure searches to be directed towards semantically relevant places. Our proposed system is evaluated using both public, simulated data and real-world data, covering office and home environments. It successfully categorizes rooms with varying layouts and dimensions and outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA). For place recognition and trajectory estimation tasks we achieve equivalent performance to the SOTA, all also utilizing the same pre-trained model. Lastly, we demonstrate the system's potential for planning. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Natural Language based Context Modeling and Reasoning with LLMs: A  Tutorial  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15074  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have become phenomenally surging, since 2018--two decades after introducing context-awareness into computing systems. Through taking into account the situations of ubiquitous devices, users and the societies, context-aware computing has enabled a wide spectrum of innovative applications, such as assisted living, location-based social network services and so on. To recognize contexts and make decisions for actions accordingly, various artificial intelligence technologies, such as Ontology and OWL, have been adopted as representations for context modeling and reasoning. Recently, with the rise of LLMs and their improved natural language understanding and reasoning capabilities, it has become feasible to model contexts using natural language and perform context reasoning by interacting with LLMs such as ChatGPT and GPT-4. In this tutorial, we demonstrate the use of texts, prompts, and autonomous agents (AutoAgents) that enable LLMs to perform context modeling and reasoning without requiring fine-tuning of the model. We organize and introduce works in the related field, and name this computing paradigm as the LLM-driven Context-aware Computing (LCaC). In the LCaC paradigm, users' requests, sensors reading data, and the command to actuators are supposed to be represented as texts. Given the text of users' request and sensor data, the AutoAgent models the context by prompting and sends to the LLM for context reasoning. LLM generates a plan of actions and responds to the AutoAgent, which later follows the action plan to foster context-awareness. To prove the concepts, we use two showcases--(1) operating a mobile z-arm in an apartment for assisted living, and (2) planning a trip and scheduling the itinerary in a context-aware and personalized manner. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** RankVicuna: Zero-Shot Listwise Document Reranking with Open-Source Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15088  
**Abstract:** Researchers have successfully applied large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT to reranking in an information retrieval context, but to date, such work has mostly been built on proprietary models hidden behind opaque API endpoints. This approach yields experimental results that are not reproducible and non-deterministic, threatening the veracity of outcomes that build on such shaky foundations. To address this significant shortcoming, we present RankVicuna, the first fully open-source LLM capable of performing high-quality listwise reranking in a zero-shot setting. Experimental results on the TREC 2019 and 2020 Deep Learning Tracks show that we can achieve effectiveness comparable to zero-shot reranking with GPT-3.5 with a much smaller 7B parameter model, although our effectiveness remains slightly behind reranking with GPT-4. We hope our work provides the foundation for future research on reranking with modern LLMs. All the code necessary to reproduce our results is available at https://github.com/castorini/rank_llm. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** VideoDirectorGPT: Consistent Multi-scene Video Generation via LLM-Guided  Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15091  
**Abstract:** Although recent text-to-video (T2V) generation methods have seen significant advancements, most of these works focus on producing short video clips of a single event with a single background (i.e., single-scene videos). Meanwhile, recent large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated their capability in generating layouts and programs to control downstream visual modules such as image generation models. This raises an important question: can we leverage the knowledge embedded in these LLMs for temporally consistent long video generation? In this paper, we propose VideoDirectorGPT, a novel framework for consistent multi-scene video generation that uses the knowledge of LLMs for video content planning and grounded video generation. Specifically, given a single text prompt, we first ask our video planner LLM (GPT-4) to expand it into a 'video plan', which involves generating the scene descriptions, the entities with their respective layouts, the background for each scene, and consistency groupings of the entities and backgrounds. Next, guided by this output from the video planner, our video generator, Layout2Vid, has explicit control over spatial layouts and can maintain temporal consistency of entities/backgrounds across scenes, while only trained with image-level annotations. Our experiments demonstrate that VideoDirectorGPT framework substantially improves layout and movement control in both single- and multi-scene video generation and can generate multi-scene videos with visual consistency across scenes, while achieving competitive performance with SOTAs in open-domain single-scene T2V generation. We also demonstrate that our framework can dynamically control the strength for layout guidance and can also generate videos with user-provided images. We hope our framework can inspire future work on better integrating the planning ability of LLMs into consistent long video generation. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Attention Satisfies: A Constraint-Satisfaction Lens on Factual Errors of  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15098  
**Abstract:** We investigate the internal behavior of Transformer-based Large Language Models (LLMs) when they generate factually incorrect text. We propose modeling factual queries as Constraint Satisfaction Problems and use this framework to investigate how the model interacts internally with factual constraints. Specifically, we discover a strong positive relation between the model's attention to constraint tokens and the factual accuracy of its responses. In our curated suite of 11 datasets with over 40,000 prompts, we study the task of predicting factual errors with the Llama-2 family across all scales (7B, 13B, 70B). We propose SAT Probe, a method probing self-attention patterns, that can predict constraint satisfaction and factual errors, and allows early error identification. The approach and findings demonstrate how using the mechanistic understanding of factuality in LLMs can enhance reliability. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** LAVIE: High-Quality Video Generation with Cascaded Latent Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15103  
**Abstract:** This work aims to learn a high-quality text-to-video (T2V) generative model by leveraging a pre-trained text-to-image (T2I) model as a basis. It is a highly desirable yet challenging task to simultaneously a) accomplish the synthesis of visually realistic and temporally coherent videos while b) preserving the strong creative generation nature of the pre-trained T2I model. To this end, we propose LaVie, an integrated video generation framework that operates on cascaded video latent diffusion models, comprising a base T2V model, a temporal interpolation model, and a video super-resolution model. Our key insights are two-fold: 1) We reveal that the incorporation of simple temporal self-attentions, coupled with rotary positional encoding, adequately captures the temporal correlations inherent in video data. 2) Additionally, we validate that the process of joint image-video fine-tuning plays a pivotal role in producing high-quality and creative outcomes. To enhance the performance of LaVie, we contribute a comprehensive and diverse video dataset named Vimeo25M, consisting of 25 million text-video pairs that prioritize quality, diversity, and aesthetic appeal. Extensive experiments demonstrate that LaVie achieves state-of-the-art performance both quantitatively and qualitatively. Furthermore, we showcase the versatility of pre-trained LaVie models in various long video generation and personalized video synthesis applications. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Generating Visual Scenes from Touch  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15117  
**Abstract:** An emerging line of work has sought to generate plausible imagery from touch. Existing approaches, however, tackle only narrow aspects of the visuo-tactile synthesis problem, and lag significantly behind the quality of cross-modal synthesis methods in other domains. We draw on recent advances in latent diffusion to create a model for synthesizing images from tactile signals (and vice versa) and apply it to a number of visuo-tactile synthesis tasks. Using this model, we significantly outperform prior work on the tactile-driven stylization problem, i.e., manipulating an image to match a touch signal, and we are the first to successfully generate images from touch without additional sources of information about the scene. We also successfully use our model to address two novel synthesis problems: generating images that do not contain the touch sensor or the hand holding it, and estimating an image's shading from its reflectance and touch. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** InvestLM: A Large Language Model for Investment using Financial Domain  Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.13064  
**Abstract:** We present a new financial domain large language model, InvestLM, tuned on LLaMA-65B (Touvron et al., 2023), using a carefully curated instruction dataset related to financial investment. Inspired by less-is-more-for-alignment (Zhou et al., 2023), we manually curate a small yet diverse instruction dataset, covering a wide range of financial related topics, from Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam questions to SEC filings to Stackexchange quantitative finance discussions. InvestLM shows strong capabilities in understanding financial text and provides helpful responses to investment related questions. Financial experts, including hedge fund managers and research analysts, rate InvestLM's response as comparable to those of state-of-the-art commercial models (GPT-3.5, GPT-4 and Claude-2). Zero-shot evaluation on a set of financial NLP benchmarks demonstrates strong generalizability. From a research perspective, this work suggests that a high-quality domain specific LLM can be tuned using a small set of carefully curated instructions on a well-trained foundation model, which is consistent with the Superficial Alignment Hypothesis (Zhou et al., 2023). From a practical perspective, this work develops a state-of-the-art financial domain LLM with superior capability in understanding financial texts and providing helpful investment advice, potentially enhancing the work efficiency of financial professionals. We release the model parameters to the research community. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** AiAReSeg: Catheter Detection and Segmentation in Interventional  Ultrasound using Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14492  
**Abstract:** To date, endovascular surgeries are performed using the golden standard of Fluoroscopy, which uses ionising radiation to visualise catheters and vasculature. Prolonged Fluoroscopic exposure is harmful for the patient and the clinician, and may lead to severe post-operative sequlae such as the development of cancer. Meanwhile, the use of interventional Ultrasound has gained popularity, due to its well-known benefits of small spatial footprint, fast data acquisition, and higher tissue contrast images. However, ultrasound images are hard to interpret, and it is difficult to localise vessels, catheters, and guidewires within them. This work proposes a solution using an adaptation of a state-of-the-art machine learning transformer architecture to detect and segment catheters in axial interventional Ultrasound image sequences. The network architecture was inspired by the Attention in Attention mechanism, temporal tracking networks, and introduced a novel 3D segmentation head that performs 3D deconvolution across time. In order to facilitate training of such deep learning networks, we introduce a new data synthesis pipeline that used physics-based catheter insertion simulations, along with a convolutional ray-casting ultrasound simulator to produce synthetic ultrasound images of endovascular interventions. The proposed method is validated on a hold-out validation dataset, thus demonstrated robustness to ultrasound noise and a wide range of scanning angles. It was also tested on data collected from silicon-based aorta phantoms, thus demonstrated its potential for translation from sim-to-real. This work represents a significant step towards safer and more efficient endovascular surgery using interventional ultrasound. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Exploring RWKV for Memory Efficient and Low Latency Streaming ASR  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.14758  
**Abstract:** Recently, self-attention-based transformers and conformers have been introduced as alternatives to RNNs for ASR acoustic modeling. Nevertheless, the full-sequence attention mechanism is non-streamable and computationally expensive, thus requiring modifications, such as chunking and caching, for efficient streaming ASR. In this paper, we propose to apply RWKV, a variant of linear attention transformer, to streaming ASR. RWKV combines the superior performance of transformers and the inference efficiency of RNNs, which is well-suited for streaming ASR scenarios where the budget for latency and memory is restricted. Experiments on varying scales (100h - 10000h) demonstrate that RWKV-Transducer and RWKV-Boundary-Aware-Transducer achieve comparable to or even better accuracy compared with chunk conformer transducer, with minimal latency and inference memory cost. 

