**ID:** 1  
**Title:** ChatGPT & Mechanical Engineering: Examining performance on the FE  Mechanical Engineering and Undergraduate Exams  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15866  
**Abstract:** The launch of ChatGPT at the end of 2022 generated large interest into possible applications of artificial intelligence in STEM education and among STEM professions. As a result many questions surrounding the capabilities of generative AI tools inside and outside of the classroom have been raised and are starting to be explored. This study examines the capabilities of ChatGPT within the discipline of mechanical engineering. It aims to examine use cases and pitfalls of such a technology in the classroom and professional settings. ChatGPT was presented with a set of questions from junior and senior level mechanical engineering exams provided at a large private university, as well as a set of practice questions for the Fundamentals of Engineering Exam (FE) in Mechanical Engineering. The responses of two ChatGPT models, one free to use and one paid subscription, were analyzed. The paper found that the subscription model (GPT-4) greatly outperformed the free version (GPT-3.5), achieving 76% correct vs 51% correct, but the limitation of text only input on both models makes neither likely to pass the FE exam. The results confirm findings in the literature with regards to types of errors and pitfalls made by ChatGPT. It was found that due to its inconsistency and a tendency to confidently produce incorrect answers the tool is best suited for users with expert knowledge. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Zero-Shot and Few-Shot Video Question Answering with Multi-Modal Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15915  
**Abstract:** Recent vision-language models are driven by large-scale pretrained models. However, adapting pretrained models on limited data presents challenges such as overfitting, catastrophic forgetting, and the cross-modal gap between vision and language. We introduce a parameter-efficient method to address these challenges, combining multimodal prompt learning and a transformer-based mapping network, while keeping the pretrained models frozen. Our experiments on several video question answering benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our approach in terms of performance and parameter efficiency on both zero-shot and few-shot settings. Our code is available at https://engindeniz.github.io/vitis. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** The Devil is in the Details: A Deep Dive into the Rabbit Hole of Data  Filtering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15954  
**Abstract:** The quality of pre-training data plays a critical role in the performance of foundation models. Popular foundation models often design their own recipe for data filtering, which makes it hard to analyze and compare different data filtering approaches. DataComp is a new benchmark dedicated to evaluating different methods for data filtering. This paper describes our learning and solution when participating in the DataComp challenge. Our filtering strategy includes three stages: single-modality filtering, cross-modality filtering, and data distribution alignment. We integrate existing methods and propose new solutions, such as computing CLIP score on horizontally flipped images to mitigate the interference of scene text, using vision and language models to retrieve training samples for target downstream tasks, rebalancing the data distribution to improve the efficiency of allocating the computational budget, etc. We slice and dice our design choices, provide in-depth analysis, and discuss open questions. Our approach outperforms the best method from the DataComp paper by over 4% on the average performance of 38 tasks and by over 2% on ImageNet. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** GeoCLIP: Clip-Inspired Alignment between Locations and Images for  Effective Worldwide Geo-localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16020  
**Abstract:** Worldwide Geo-localization aims to pinpoint the precise location of images taken anywhere on Earth. This task has considerable challenges due to immense variation in geographic landscapes. The image-to-image retrieval-based approaches fail to solve this problem on a global scale as it is not feasible to construct a large gallery of images covering the entire world. Instead, existing approaches divide the globe into discrete geographic cells, transforming the problem into a classification task. However, their performance is limited by the predefined classes and often results in inaccurate localizations when an image's location significantly deviates from its class center. To overcome these limitations, we propose GeoCLIP, a novel CLIP-inspired Image-to-GPS retrieval approach that enforces alignment between the image and its corresponding GPS locations. GeoCLIP's location encoder models the Earth as a continuous function by employing positional encoding through random Fourier features and constructing a hierarchical representation that captures information at varying resolutions to yield a semantically rich high-dimensional feature suitable to use even beyond geo-localization. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work employing GPS encoding for geo-localization. We demonstrate the efficacy of our method via extensive experiments and ablations on benchmark datasets. We achieve competitive performance with just 20% of training data, highlighting its effectiveness even in limited-data settings. Furthermore, we qualitatively demonstrate geo-localization using a text query by leveraging CLIP backbone of our image encoder. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** HuntGPT: Integrating Machine Learning-Based Anomaly Detection and  Explainable AI with Large Language Models (LLMs)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16021  
**Abstract:** Machine learning (ML) is crucial in network anomaly detection for proactive threat hunting, reducing detection and response times significantly. However, challenges in model training, maintenance, and frequent false positives impact its acceptance and reliability. Explainable AI (XAI) attempts to mitigate these issues, allowing cybersecurity teams to assess AI-generated alerts with confidence, but has seen limited acceptance from incident responders. Large Language Models (LLMs) present a solution through discerning patterns in extensive information and adapting to different functional requirements. We present HuntGPT, a specialized intrusion detection dashboard applying a Random Forest classifier using the KDD99 dataset, integrating XAI frameworks like SHAP and Lime for user-friendly and intuitive model interaction, and combined with a GPT-3.5 Turbo, it delivers threats in an understandable format. The paper delves into the system's architecture, components, and technical accuracy, assessed through Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Practice Exams, evaluating response quality across six metrics. The results demonstrate that conversational agents, supported by LLM and integrated with XAI, provide robust, explainable, and actionable AI solutions in intrusion detection, enhancing user understanding and interactive experience. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** A priori and a posteriori error analysis for a VEM discretization of the  convection-diffusion eigenvalue problem  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16084  
**Abstract:** In this paper we propose and analyze a virtual element method for the two dimensional non-symmetric diffusion-convection eigenvalue problem in order to derive a priori and a posteriori error estimates. Under the classic assumptions of the meshes, and with the aid of the classic theory of compact operators, we prove error estimates for the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions. Also, we develop an a posteriori error estimator which, in one hand, results to be reliable and on the other, with standard bubble functions arguments, also results to be efficient. We test our method on domains where the complex eigenfunctions are not sufficiently regular, in order to assess the performance of the estimator that we compare with the uniform refinement given by the a priori analysis 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Channel Vision Transformers: An Image Is Worth C x 16 x 16 Words  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16108  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformer (ViT) has emerged as a powerful architecture in the realm of modern computer vision. However, its application in certain imaging fields, such as microscopy and satellite imaging, presents unique challenges. In these domains, images often contain multiple channels, each carrying semantically distinct and independent information. Furthermore, the model must demonstrate robustness to sparsity in input channels, as they may not be densely available during training or testing. In this paper, we propose a modification to the ViT architecture that enhances reasoning across the input channels and introduce Hierarchical Channel Sampling (HCS) as an additional regularization technique to ensure robustness when only partial channels are presented during test time. Our proposed model, ChannelViT, constructs patch tokens independently from each input channel and utilizes a learnable channel embedding that is added to the patch tokens, similar to positional embeddings. We evaluate the performance of ChannelViT on ImageNet, JUMP-CP (microscopy cell imaging), and So2Sat (satellite imaging). Our results show that ChannelViT outperforms ViT on classification tasks and generalizes well, even when a subset of input channels is used during testing. Across our experiments, HCS proves to be a powerful regularizer, independent of the architecture employed, suggesting itself as a straightforward technique for robust ViT training. Lastly, we find that ChannelViT generalizes effectively even when there is limited access to all channels during training, highlighting its potential for multi-channel imaging under real-world conditions with sparse sensors. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Compositional Sculpting of Iterative Generative Processes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16115  
**Abstract:** High training costs of generative models and the need to fine-tune them for specific tasks have created a strong interest in model reuse and composition. A key challenge in composing iterative generative processes, such as GFlowNets and diffusion models, is that to realize the desired target distribution, all steps of the generative process need to be coordinated, and satisfy delicate balance conditions. In this work, we propose Compositional Sculpting: a general approach for defining compositions of iterative generative processes. We then introduce a method for sampling from these compositions built on classifier guidance. We showcase ways to accomplish compositional sculpting in both GFlowNets and diffusion models. We highlight two binary operations $\unicode{x2014}$ the harmonic mean ($p_1 \otimes p_2$) and the contrast ($p_1 \unicode{x25D1}\,p_2$) between pairs, and the generalization of these operations to multiple component distributions. We offer empirical results on image and molecular generation tasks. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Test-Case-Driven Programming Understanding in Large Language Models for  Better Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16120  
**Abstract:** Code generation is to automatically generate source code conforming to a given programming specification, which has received extensive attention especially with the development of large language models (LLMs). Due to the inherent difficulty of code generation, the code generated by LLMs may be also not aligned with the specification. To improve the perfor mance of LLMs in code generation, some Chain of Thought (CoT) techniques have been proposed to guide LLMs for programming understanding before code generation. However, they are still hard to figure out complicated programming logic according to the (concise) specification, leadingto unsatisfactory code generation performance. In this work, we propose the first test-case-driven CoT technique, called TCoT, to further enhance the ability of LLMs in code generation. It understands the programming specification from the novel perspective of test cases, which is aligned with human practice by using examples to understand complicated problems. Due to the existence of the expected output specified in a test case, TCoT can instantly check the correctness of the programming understanding and then refine it to be as correct as possible before code generation. In this way, it is more likely to generate correct code. Our evaluation on 6 datasets and 14 baselines demonstrates the effectiveness of TCoT. For example, TCoT improves ChatGPT by 13.93%~69.44% in terms of Pass@1 (measuring the ratio of programming problems for which the generated code passes all test cases), and outperforms the existing CoT technique with the improvement of 12.14%~53.72% in terms of Pass@1. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** MASK4D: Mask Transformer for 4D Panoptic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16133  
**Abstract:** Accurately perceiving and tracking instances over time is essential for the decision-making processes of autonomous agents interacting safely in dynamic environments. With this intention, we propose Mask4D for the challenging task of 4D panoptic segmentation of LiDAR point clouds. Mask4D is the first transformer-based approach unifying semantic instance segmentation and tracking of sparse and irregular sequences of 3D point clouds into a single joint model. Our model directly predicts semantic instances and their temporal associations without relying on any hand-crafted non-learned association strategies such as probabilistic clustering or voting-based center prediction. Instead, Mask4D introduces spatio-temporal instance queries which encode the semantic and geometric properties of each semantic tracklet in the sequence. In an in-depth study, we find that it is critical to promote spatially compact instance predictions as spatio-temporal instance queries tend to merge multiple semantically similar instances, even if they are spatially distant. To this end, we regress 6-DOF bounding box parameters from spatio-temporal instance queries, which is used as an auxiliary task to foster spatially compact predictions. Mask4D achieves a new state-of-the-art on the SemanticKITTI test set with a score of 68.4 LSTQ, improving upon published top-performing methods by at least +4.5%. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** CLIP-Hand3D: Exploiting 3D Hand Pose Estimation via Context-Aware  Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16140  
**Abstract:** Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) starts to emerge in many computer vision tasks and has achieved promising performance. However, it remains underexplored whether CLIP can be generalized to 3D hand pose estimation, as bridging text prompts with pose-aware features presents significant challenges due to the discrete nature of joint positions in 3D space. In this paper, we make one of the first attempts to propose a novel 3D hand pose estimator from monocular images, dubbed as CLIP-Hand3D, which successfully bridges the gap between text prompts and irregular detailed pose distribution. In particular, the distribution order of hand joints in various 3D space directions is derived from pose labels, forming corresponding text prompts that are subsequently encoded into text representations. Simultaneously, 21 hand joints in the 3D space are retrieved, and their spatial distribution (in x, y, and z axes) is encoded to form pose-aware features. Subsequently, we maximize semantic consistency for a pair of pose-text features following a CLIP-based contrastive learning paradigm. Furthermore, a coarse-to-fine mesh regressor is designed, which is capable of effectively querying joint-aware cues from the feature pyramid. Extensive experiments on several public hand benchmarks show that the proposed model attains a significantly faster inference speed while achieving state-of-the-art performance compared to methods utilizing the similar scale backbone. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** AE-GPT: Using Large Language Models to Extract Adverse Events from  Surveillance Reports-A Use Case with Influenza Vaccine Adverse Events  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16150  
**Abstract:** Though Vaccines are instrumental in global health, mitigating infectious diseases and pandemic outbreaks, they can occasionally lead to adverse events (AEs). Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promise in effectively identifying and cataloging AEs within clinical reports. Utilizing data from the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) from 1990 to 2016, this study particularly focuses on AEs to evaluate LLMs' capability for AE extraction. A variety of prevalent LLMs, including GPT-2, GPT-3 variants, GPT-4, and Llama 2, were evaluated using Influenza vaccine as a use case. The fine-tuned GPT 3.5 model (AE-GPT) stood out with a 0.704 averaged micro F1 score for strict match and 0.816 for relaxed match. The encouraging performance of the AE-GPT underscores LLMs' potential in processing medical data, indicating a significant stride towards advanced AE detection, thus presumably generalizable to other AE extraction tasks. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Large Language Model Soft Ideologization via AI-Self-Consciousness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16167  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated human-level performance on a vast spectrum of natural language tasks. However, few studies have addressed the LLM threat and vulnerability from an ideology perspective, especially when they are increasingly being deployed in sensitive domains, e.g., elections and education. In this study, we explore the implications of GPT soft ideologization through the use of AI-self-consciousness. By utilizing GPT self-conversations, AI can be granted a vision to "comprehend" the intended ideology, and subsequently generate finetuning data for LLM ideology injection. When compared to traditional government ideology manipulation techniques, such as information censorship, LLM ideologization proves advantageous; it is easy to implement, cost-effective, and powerful, thus brimming with risks. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** DiffGAN-F2S: Symmetric and Efficient Denoising Diffusion GANs for  Structural Connectivity Prediction from Brain fMRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16205  
**Abstract:** Mapping from functional connectivity (FC) to structural connectivity (SC) can facilitate multimodal brain network fusion and discover potential biomarkers for clinical implications. However, it is challenging to directly bridge the reliable non-linear mapping relations between SC and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In this paper, a novel diffusision generative adversarial network-based fMRI-to-SC (DiffGAN-F2S) model is proposed to predict SC from brain fMRI in an end-to-end manner. To be specific, the proposed DiffGAN-F2S leverages denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) and adversarial learning to efficiently generate high-fidelity SC through a few steps from fMRI. By designing the dual-channel multi-head spatial attention (DMSA) and graph convolutional modules, the symmetric graph generator first captures global relations among direct and indirect connected brain regions, then models the local brain region interactions. It can uncover the complex mapping relations between fMRI and structural connectivity. Furthermore, the spatially connected consistency loss is devised to constrain the generator to preserve global-local topological information for accurate intrinsic SC prediction. Testing on the public Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) dataset, the proposed model can effectively generate empirical SC-preserved connectivity from four-dimensional imaging data and shows superior performance in SC prediction compared with other related models. Furthermore, the proposed model can identify the vast majority of important brain regions and connections derived from the empirical method, providing an alternative way to fuse multimodal brain networks and analyze clinical disease. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** GAFlow: Incorporating Gaussian Attention into Optical Flow  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16217  
**Abstract:** Optical flow, or the estimation of motion fields from image sequences, is one of the fundamental problems in computer vision. Unlike most pixel-wise tasks that aim at achieving consistent representations of the same category, optical flow raises extra demands for obtaining local discrimination and smoothness, which yet is not fully explored by existing approaches. In this paper, we push Gaussian Attention (GA) into the optical flow models to accentuate local properties during representation learning and enforce the motion affinity during matching. Specifically, we introduce a novel Gaussian-Constrained Layer (GCL) which can be easily plugged into existing Transformer blocks to highlight the local neighborhood that contains fine-grained structural information. Moreover, for reliable motion analysis, we provide a new Gaussian-Guided Attention Module (GGAM) which not only inherits properties from Gaussian distribution to instinctively revolve around the neighbor fields of each point but also is empowered to put the emphasis on contextually related regions during matching. Our fully-equipped model, namely Gaussian Attention Flow network (GAFlow), naturally incorporates a series of novel Gaussian-based modules into the conventional optical flow framework for reliable motion analysis. Extensive experiments on standard optical flow datasets consistently demonstrate the exceptional performance of the proposed approach in terms of both generalization ability evaluation and online benchmark testing. Code is available at https://github.com/LA30/GAFlow. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Unmasking the Chameleons: A Benchmark for Out-of-Distribution Detection  in Medical Tabular Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16220  
**Abstract:** Despite their success, Machine Learning (ML) models do not generalize effectively to data not originating from the training distribution. To reliably employ ML models in real-world healthcare systems and avoid inaccurate predictions on out-of-distribution (OOD) data, it is crucial to detect OOD samples. Numerous OOD detection approaches have been suggested in other fields - especially in computer vision - but it remains unclear whether the challenge is resolved when dealing with medical tabular data. To answer this pressing need, we propose an extensive reproducible benchmark to compare different methods across a suite of tests including both near and far OODs. Our benchmark leverages the latest versions of eICU and MIMIC-IV, two public datasets encompassing tens of thousands of ICU patients in several hospitals. We consider a wide array of density-based methods and SOTA post-hoc detectors across diverse predictive architectures, including MLP, ResNet, and Transformer. Our findings show that i) the problem appears to be solved for far-OODs, but remains open for near-OODs; ii) post-hoc methods alone perform poorly, but improve substantially when coupled with distance-based mechanisms; iii) the transformer architecture is far less overconfident compared to MLP and ResNet. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Controllable Text Generation with Residual Memory Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16231  
**Abstract:** Large-scale Causal Language Models (CLMs), e.g., GPT3 and ChatGPT, have brought great success in text generation. However, it is still an open challenge to control the generation process of CLM while balancing flexibility, control granularity, and generation efficiency. In this paper, we provide a new alternative for controllable text generation (CTG), by designing a non-intrusive, lightweight control plugin to accompany the generation of CLM at arbitrary time steps. The proposed control plugin, namely Residual Memory Transformer (RMT), has an encoder-decoder setup, which can accept any types of control conditions and cooperate with CLM through a residual learning paradigm, to achieve a more flexible, general, and efficient CTG. Extensive experiments are carried out on various control tasks, in the form of both automatic and human evaluations. The results show the superiority of RMT over a range of state-of-the-art approaches, proving the effectiveness and versatility of our approach. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Object Motion Guided Human Motion Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16237  
**Abstract:** Modeling human behaviors in contextual environments has a wide range of applications in character animation, embodied AI, VR/AR, and robotics. In real-world scenarios, humans frequently interact with the environment and manipulate various objects to complete daily tasks. In this work, we study the problem of full-body human motion synthesis for the manipulation of large-sized objects. We propose Object MOtion guided human MOtion synthesis (OMOMO), a conditional diffusion framework that can generate full-body manipulation behaviors from only the object motion. Since naively applying diffusion models fails to precisely enforce contact constraints between the hands and the object, OMOMO learns two separate denoising processes to first predict hand positions from object motion and subsequently synthesize full-body poses based on the predicted hand positions. By employing the hand positions as an intermediate representation between the two denoising processes, we can explicitly enforce contact constraints, resulting in more physically plausible manipulation motions. With the learned model, we develop a novel system that captures full-body human manipulation motions by simply attaching a smartphone to the object being manipulated. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed pipeline and its ability to generalize to unseen objects. Additionally, as high-quality human-object interaction datasets are scarce, we collect a large-scale dataset consisting of 3D object geometry, object motion, and human motion. Our dataset contains human-object interaction motion for 15 objects, with a total duration of approximately 10 hours. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** On the Challenges of Fully Incremental Neural Dependency Parsing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16254  
**Abstract:** Since the popularization of BiLSTMs and Transformer-based bidirectional encoders, state-of-the-art syntactic parsers have lacked incrementality, requiring access to the whole sentence and deviating from human language processing. This paper explores whether fully incremental dependency parsing with modern architectures can be competitive. We build parsers combining strictly left-to-right neural encoders with fully incremental sequence-labeling and transition-based decoders. The results show that fully incremental parsing with modern architectures considerably lags behind bidirectional parsing, noting the challenges of psycholinguistically plausible parsing. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** UPB @ ACTI: Detecting Conspiracies using fine tuned Sentence  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16275  
**Abstract:** Conspiracy theories have become a prominent and concerning aspect of online discourse, posing challenges to information integrity and societal trust. As such, we address conspiracy theory detection as proposed by the ACTI @ EVALITA 2023 shared task. The combination of pre-trained sentence Transformer models and data augmentation techniques enabled us to secure first place in the final leaderboard of both sub-tasks. Our methodology attained F1 scores of 85.71% in the binary classification and 91.23% for the fine-grained conspiracy topic classification, surpassing other competing systems. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Predicting performance difficulty from piano sheet music images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16287  
**Abstract:** Estimating the performance difficulty of a musical score is crucial in music education for adequately designing the learning curriculum of the students. Although the Music Information Retrieval community has recently shown interest in this task, existing approaches mainly use machine-readable scores, leaving the broader case of sheet music images unaddressed. Based on previous works involving sheet music images, we use a mid-level representation, bootleg score, describing notehead positions relative to staff lines coupled with a transformer model. This architecture is adapted to our task by introducing an encoding scheme that reduces the encoded sequence length to one-eighth of the original size. In terms of evaluation, we consider five datasets -- more than 7500 scores with up to 9 difficulty levels -- , two of them particularly compiled for this work. The results obtained when pretraining the scheme on the IMSLP corpus and fine-tuning it on the considered datasets prove the proposal's validity, achieving the best-performing model with a balanced accuracy of 40.34\% and a mean square error of 1.33. Finally, we provide access to our code, data, and models for transparency and reproducibility. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** LawBench: Benchmarking Legal Knowledge of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16289  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong capabilities in various aspects. However, when applying them to the highly specialized, safe-critical legal domain, it is unclear how much legal knowledge they possess and whether they can reliably perform legal-related tasks. To address this gap, we propose a comprehensive evaluation benchmark LawBench. LawBench has been meticulously crafted to have precise assessment of the LLMs' legal capabilities from three cognitive levels: (1) Legal knowledge memorization: whether LLMs can memorize needed legal concepts, articles and facts; (2) Legal knowledge understanding: whether LLMs can comprehend entities, events and relationships within legal text; (3) Legal knowledge applying: whether LLMs can properly utilize their legal knowledge and make necessary reasoning steps to solve realistic legal tasks. LawBench contains 20 diverse tasks covering 5 task types: single-label classification (SLC), multi-label classification (MLC), regression, extraction and generation. We perform extensive evaluations of 51 LLMs on LawBench, including 20 multilingual LLMs, 22 Chinese-oriented LLMs and 9 legal specific LLMs. The results show that GPT-4 remains the best-performing LLM in the legal domain, surpassing the others by a significant margin. While fine-tuning LLMs on legal specific text brings certain improvements, we are still a long way from obtaining usable and reliable LLMs in legal tasks. All data, model predictions and evaluation code are released in https://github.com/open-compass/LawBench/. We hope this benchmark provides in-depth understanding of the LLMs' domain-specified capabilities and speed up the development of LLMs in the legal domain. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Multi-scale Recurrent LSTM and Transformer Network for Depth Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16301  
**Abstract:** Lidar depth completion is a new and hot topic of depth estimation. In this task, it is the key and difficult point to fuse the features of color space and depth space. In this paper, we migrate the classic LSTM and Transformer modules from NLP to depth completion and redesign them appropriately. Specifically, we use Forget gate, Update gate, Output gate, and Skip gate to achieve the efficient fusion of color and depth features and perform loop optimization at multiple scales. Finally, we further fuse the deep features through the Transformer multi-head attention mechanism. Experimental results show that without repetitive network structure and post-processing steps, our method can achieve state-of-the-art performance by adding our modules to a simple encoder-decoder network structure. Our method ranks first on the current mainstream autonomous driving KITTI benchmark dataset. It can also be regarded as a backbone network for other methods, which likewise achieves state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Audio Visual Speaker Localization from EgoCentric Views  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16308  
**Abstract:** The use of audio and visual modality for speaker localization has been well studied in the literature by exploiting their complementary characteristics. However, most previous works employ the setting of static sensors mounted at fixed positions. Unlike them, in this work, we explore the ego-centric setting, where the heterogeneous sensors are embodied and could be moving with a human to facilitate speaker localization. Compared to the static scenario, the ego-centric setting is more realistic for smart-home applications e.g., a service robot. However, this also brings new challenges such as blurred images, frequent speaker disappearance from the field of view of the wearer, and occlusions. In this paper, we study egocentric audio-visual speaker DOA estimation and deal with the challenges mentioned above. Specifically, we propose a transformer-based audio-visual fusion method to estimate the relative DOA of the speaker to the wearer, and design a training strategy to mitigate the problem of the speaker disappearing from the camera's view. We also develop a new dataset for simulating the out-of-view scenarios, by creating a scene with a camera wearer walking around while a speaker is moving at the same time. The experimental results show that our proposed method offers promising performance in this new dataset in terms of tracking accuracy. Finally, we adapt the proposed method for the multi-speaker scenario. Experiments on EasyCom show the effectiveness of the proposed model for multiple speakers in real scenarios, which achieves state-of-the-art results in the sphere active speaker detection task and the wearer activity prediction task. The simulated dataset and related code are available at https://github.com/KawhiZhao/Egocentric-Audio-Visual-Speaker-Localization. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** DeepPCR: Parallelizing Sequential Operations in Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16318  
**Abstract:** Parallelization techniques have become ubiquitous for accelerating inference and training of deep neural networks. Despite this, several operations are still performed in a sequential manner. For instance, the forward and backward passes are executed layer-by-layer, and the output of diffusion models is produced by applying a sequence of denoising steps. This sequential approach results in a computational cost proportional to the number of steps involved, presenting a potential bottleneck as the number of steps increases. In this work, we introduce DeepPCR, a novel algorithm which parallelizes typically sequential operations used in inference and training of neural networks. DeepPCR is based on interpreting a sequence of $L$ steps as the solution of a specific system of equations, which we recover using the Parallel Cyclic Reduction algorithm. This reduces the complexity of computing the sequential operations from $\mathcal{O}(L)$ to $\mathcal{O}(\log_2L)$, thus yielding a speedup for large $L$. To verify the theoretical lower complexity of the algorithm, and to identify regimes for speedup, we test the effectiveness of DeepPCR in parallelizing the forward and backward pass in multi-layer perceptrons, and reach speedups of up to $30\times$ for forward and $200\times$ for backward pass. We additionally showcase the flexibility of DeepPCR by parallelizing training of ResNets with as many as 1024 layers, and generation in diffusion models, enabling up to $7\times$ faster training and $11\times$ faster generation, respectively, when compared to the sequential approach. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Augmenting transformers with recursively composed multi-grained  representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16319  
**Abstract:** We present ReCAT, a recursive composition augmented Transformer that is able to explicitly model hierarchical syntactic structures of raw texts without relying on gold trees during both learning and inference. Existing research along this line restricts data to follow a hierarchical tree structure and thus lacks inter-span communications. To overcome the problem, we propose a novel contextual inside-outside (CIO) layer that learns contextualized representations of spans through bottom-up and top-down passes, where a bottom-up pass forms representations of high-level spans by composing low-level spans, while a top-down pass combines information inside and outside a span. By stacking several CIO layers between the embedding layer and the attention layers in Transformer, the ReCAT model can perform both deep intra-span and deep inter-span interactions, and thus generate multi-grained representations fully contextualized with other spans. Moreover, the CIO layers can be jointly pre-trained with Transformers, making ReCAT enjoy scaling ability, strong performance, and interpretability at the same time. We conduct experiments on various sentence-level and span-level tasks. Evaluation results indicate that ReCAT can significantly outperform vanilla Transformer models on all span-level tasks and baselines that combine recursive networks with Transformers on natural language inference tasks. More interestingly, the hierarchical structures induced by ReCAT exhibit strong consistency with human-annotated syntactic trees, indicating good interpretability brought by the CIO layers. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Dark Side Augmentation: Generating Diverse Night Examples for Metric  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16351  
**Abstract:** Image retrieval methods based on CNN descriptors rely on metric learning from a large number of diverse examples of positive and negative image pairs. Domains, such as night-time images, with limited availability and variability of training data suffer from poor retrieval performance even with methods performing well on standard benchmarks. We propose to train a GAN-based synthetic-image generator, translating available day-time image examples into night images. Such a generator is used in metric learning as a form of augmentation, supplying training data to the scarce domain. Various types of generators are evaluated and analyzed. We contribute with a novel light-weight GAN architecture that enforces the consistency between the original and translated image through edge consistency. The proposed architecture also allows a simultaneous training of an edge detector that operates on both night and day images. To further increase the variability in the training examples and to maximize the generalization of the trained model, we propose a novel method of diverse anchor mining. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Transformer-VQ: Linear-Time Transformers via Vector Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16354  
**Abstract:** We introduce Transformer-VQ, a decoder-only transformer computing softmax-based dense self-attention in linear time. Transformer-VQ's efficient attention is enabled by vector-quantized keys and a novel caching mechanism. In large-scale experiments, Transformer-VQ is shown highly competitive in quality, with strong results on Enwik8 (0.99 bpb), PG-19 (26.6 ppl), and ImageNet64 (3.16 bpb). Code: https://github.com/transformer-vq/transformer_vq 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** FG-NeRF: Flow-GAN based Probabilistic Neural Radiance Field for  Independence-Assumption-Free Uncertainty Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16364  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields with stochasticity have garnered significant interest by enabling the sampling of plausible radiance fields and quantifying uncertainty for downstream tasks. Existing works rely on the independence assumption of points in the radiance field or the pixels in input views to obtain tractable forms of the probability density function. However, this assumption inadvertently impacts performance when dealing with intricate geometry and texture. In this work, we propose an independence-assumption-free probabilistic neural radiance field based on Flow-GAN. By combining the generative capability of adversarial learning and the powerful expressivity of normalizing flow, our method explicitly models the density-radiance distribution of the whole scene. We represent our probabilistic NeRF as a mean-shifted probabilistic residual neural model. Our model is trained without an explicit likelihood function, thereby avoiding the independence assumption. Specifically, We downsample the training images with different strides and centers to form fixed-size patches which are used to train the generator with patch-based adversarial learning. Through extensive experiments, our method demonstrates state-of-the-art performance by predicting lower rendering errors and more reliable uncertainty on both synthetic and real-world datasets. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Aperture Diffraction for Compact Snapshot Spectral Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16372  
**Abstract:** We demonstrate a compact, cost-effective snapshot spectral imaging system named Aperture Diffraction Imaging Spectrometer (ADIS), which consists only of an imaging lens with an ultra-thin orthogonal aperture mask and a mosaic filter sensor, requiring no additional physical footprint compared to common RGB cameras. Then we introduce a new optical design that each point in the object space is multiplexed to discrete encoding locations on the mosaic filter sensor by diffraction-based spatial-spectral projection engineering generated from the orthogonal mask. The orthogonal projection is uniformly accepted to obtain a weakly calibration-dependent data form to enhance modulation robustness. Meanwhile, the Cascade Shift-Shuffle Spectral Transformer (CSST) with strong perception of the diffraction degeneration is designed to solve a sparsity-constrained inverse problem, realizing the volume reconstruction from 2D measurements with Large amount of aliasing. Our system is evaluated by elaborating the imaging optical theory and reconstruction algorithm with demonstrating the experimental imaging under a single exposure. Ultimately, we achieve the sub-super-pixel spatial resolution and high spectral resolution imaging. The code will be available at: https://github.com/Krito-ex/CSST. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Meshless interface tracking for the simulation of dendrite envelope  growth  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16378  
**Abstract:** The growth of dendritic grains during solidification is often modelled using the Grain Envelope Model (GEM), in which the envelope of the dendrite is an interface tracked by the Phase Field Interface Capturing (PFIC) method. In the PFIC method, an phase-field equation is solved on a fixed mesh to track the position of the envelope. While being versatile and robust, PFIC introduces certain numerical artefacts. In this work, we present an alternative approach for the solution of the GEM that employs a Meshless (sharp) Interface Tracking (MIT) formulation, which uses direct, artefact-free interface tracking. In the MIT, the envelope (interface) is defined as a moving domain boundary and the interface-tracking nodes are boundary nodes for the diffusion problem solved in the domain. To increase the accuracy of the method for the diffusion-controlled moving-boundary problem, an \h-adaptive spatial discretization is used, thus, the node spacing is refined in the vicinity of the envelope. MIT combines a parametric surface reconstruction, a mesh-free discretization of the parametric surfaces and the space enclosed by them, and a high-order approximation of the partial differential operators and of the solute concentration field using radial basis functions augmented with monomials. The proposed method is demonstrated on a two-dimensional \h-adaptive solution of the diffusive growth of dendrite and evaluated by comparing the results to the PFIC approach. It is shown that MIT can reproduce the results calculated with PFIC, that it is convergent and that it can capture more details in the envelope shape than PFIC with a similar spatial discretization. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Uncertainty-Aware Decision Transformer for Stochastic Driving  Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16397  
**Abstract:** Offline Reinforcement Learning (RL) has emerged as a promising framework for learning policies without active interactions, making it especially appealing for autonomous driving tasks. Recent successes of Transformers inspire casting offline RL as sequence modeling, which performs well in long-horizon tasks. However, they are overly optimistic in stochastic environments with incorrect assumptions that the same goal can be consistently achieved by identical actions. In this paper, we introduce an UNcertainty-awaRE deciSion Transformer (UNREST) for planning in stochastic driving environments without introducing additional transition or complex generative models. Specifically, UNREST estimates state uncertainties by the conditional mutual information between transitions and returns, and segments sequences accordingly. Discovering the `uncertainty accumulation' and `temporal locality' properties of driving environments, UNREST replaces the global returns in decision transformers with less uncertain truncated returns, to learn from true outcomes of agent actions rather than environment transitions. We also dynamically evaluate environmental uncertainty during inference for cautious planning. Extensive experimental results demonstrate UNREST's superior performance in various driving scenarios and the power of our uncertainty estimation strategy. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** AutoCLIP: Auto-tuning Zero-Shot Classifiers for Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16414  
**Abstract:** Classifiers built upon vision-language models such as CLIP have shown remarkable zero-shot performance across a broad range of image classification tasks. Prior work has studied different ways of automatically creating descriptor sets for every class based on prompt templates, ranging from manually engineered templates over templates obtained from a large language model to templates built from random words and characters. In contrast, deriving zero-shot classifiers from the respective encoded class descriptors has remained nearly unchanged, that is: classify to the class that maximizes the cosine similarity between its averaged encoded class descriptors and the encoded image. However, weighting all class descriptors equally can be suboptimal when certain descriptors match visual clues on a given image better than others. In this work, we propose AutoCLIP, a method for auto-tuning zero-shot classifiers. AutoCLIP assigns to each prompt template per-image weights, which are derived from statistics of class descriptor-image similarities at inference time. AutoCLIP is fully unsupervised, has very low overhead, and can be easily implemented in few lines of code. We show that for a broad range of vision-language models, datasets, and prompt templates, AutoCLIP outperforms baselines consistently and by up to 3 percent point accuracy. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Efficient Supervised Training of Audio Transformers for Music  Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16418  
**Abstract:** In this work, we address music representation learning using convolution-free transformers. We build on top of existing spectrogram-based audio transformers such as AST and train our models on a supervised task using patchout training similar to PaSST. In contrast to previous works, we study how specific design decisions affect downstream music tagging tasks instead of focusing on the training task. We assess the impact of initializing the models with different pre-trained weights, using various input audio segment lengths, using learned representations from different blocks and tokens of the transformer for downstream tasks, and applying patchout at inference to speed up feature extraction. We find that 1) initializing the model from ImageNet or AudioSet weights and using longer input segments are beneficial both for the training and downstream tasks, 2) the best representations for the considered downstream tasks are located in the middle blocks of the transformer, and 3) using patchout at inference allows faster processing than our convolutional baselines while maintaining superior performance. The resulting models, MAEST, are publicly available and obtain the best performance among open models in music tagging tasks. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Distilling ODE Solvers of Diffusion Models into Smaller Steps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16421  
**Abstract:** Distillation techniques have substantially improved the sampling speed of diffusion models, allowing of the generation within only one step or a few steps. However, these distillation methods require extensive training for each dataset, sampler, and network, which limits their practical applicability. To address this limitation, we propose a straightforward distillation approach, Distilled-ODE solvers (D-ODE solvers), that optimizes the ODE solver rather than training the denoising network. D-ODE solvers are formulated by simply applying a single parameter adjustment to existing ODE solvers. Subsequently, D-ODE solvers with smaller steps are optimized by ODE solvers with larger steps through distillation over a batch of samples. Our comprehensive experiments indicate that D-ODE solvers outperform existing ODE solvers, including DDIM, PNDM, DPM-Solver, DEIS, and EDM, especially when generating samples with fewer steps. Our method incur negligible computational overhead compared to previous distillation techniques, enabling simple and rapid integration with previous samplers. Qualitative analysis further shows that D-ODE solvers enhance image quality while preserving the sampling trajectory of ODE solvers. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Cyber Sentinel: Exploring Conversational Agents in Streamlining Security  Tasks with GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16422  
**Abstract:** In an era where cyberspace is both a battleground and a backbone of modern society, the urgency of safeguarding digital assets against ever-evolving threats is paramount. This paper introduces Cyber Sentinel, an innovative task-oriented cybersecurity dialogue system that is effectively capable of managing two core functions: explaining potential cyber threats within an organization to the user, and taking proactive/reactive security actions when instructed by the user. Cyber Sentinel embodies the fusion of artificial intelligence, cybersecurity domain expertise, and real-time data analysis to combat the multifaceted challenges posed by cyber adversaries. This article delves into the process of creating such a system and how it can interact with other components typically found in cybersecurity organizations. Our work is a novel approach to task-oriented dialogue systems, leveraging the power of chaining GPT-4 models combined with prompt engineering across all sub-tasks. We also highlight its pivotal role in enhancing cybersecurity communication and interaction, concluding that not only does this framework enhance the system's transparency (Explainable AI) but also streamlines the decision-making process and responding to threats (Actionable AI), therefore marking a significant advancement in the realm of cybersecurity communication. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Radar Instance Transformer: Reliable Moving Instance Segmentation in  Sparse Radar Point Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16435  
**Abstract:** The perception of moving objects is crucial for autonomous robots performing collision avoidance in dynamic environments. LiDARs and cameras tremendously enhance scene interpretation but do not provide direct motion information and face limitations under adverse weather. Radar sensors overcome these limitations and provide Doppler velocities, delivering direct information on dynamic objects. In this paper, we address the problem of moving instance segmentation in radar point clouds to enhance scene interpretation for safety-critical tasks. Our Radar Instance Transformer enriches the current radar scan with temporal information without passing aggregated scans through a neural network. We propose a full-resolution backbone to prevent information loss in sparse point cloud processing. Our instance transformer head incorporates essential information to enhance segmentation but also enables reliable, class-agnostic instance assignments. In sum, our approach shows superior performance on the new moving instance segmentation benchmarks, including diverse environments, and provides model-agnostic modules to enhance scene interpretation. The benchmark is based on the RadarScenes dataset and will be made available upon acceptance. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Neuro Symbolic Reasoning for Planning: Counterexample Guided Inductive  Synthesis using Large Language Models and Satisfiability Solving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16436  
**Abstract:** Generative large language models (LLMs) with instruct training such as GPT-4 can follow human-provided instruction prompts and generate human-like responses to these prompts. Apart from natural language responses, they have also been found to be effective at generating formal artifacts such as code, plans, and logical specifications from natural language prompts. Despite their remarkably improved accuracy, these models are still known to produce factually incorrect or contextually inappropriate results despite their syntactic coherence - a phenomenon often referred to as hallucination. This limitation makes it difficult to use these models to synthesize formal artifacts that are used in safety-critical applications. Unlike tasks such as text summarization and question-answering, bugs in code, plan, and other formal artifacts produced by LLMs can be catastrophic. We posit that we can use the satisfiability modulo theory (SMT) solvers as deductive reasoning engines to analyze the generated solutions from the LLMs, produce counterexamples when the solutions are incorrect, and provide that feedback to the LLMs exploiting the dialog capability of instruct-trained LLMs. This interaction between inductive LLMs and deductive SMT solvers can iteratively steer the LLM to generate the correct response. In our experiments, we use planning over the domain of blocks as our synthesis task for evaluating our approach. We use GPT-4, GPT3.5 Turbo, Davinci, Curie, Babbage, and Ada as the LLMs and Z3 as the SMT solver. Our method allows the user to communicate the planning problem in natural language; even the formulation of queries to SMT solvers is automatically generated from natural language. Thus, the proposed technique can enable non-expert users to describe their problems in natural language, and the combination of LLMs and SMT solvers can produce provably correct solutions. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** HTC-DC Net: Monocular Height Estimation from Single Remote Sensing  Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16486  
**Abstract:** 3D geo-information is of great significance for understanding the living environment; however, 3D perception from remote sensing data, especially on a large scale, is restricted. To tackle this problem, we propose a method for monocular height estimation from optical imagery, which is currently one of the richest sources of remote sensing data. As an ill-posed problem, monocular height estimation requires well-designed networks for enhanced representations to improve performance. Moreover, the distribution of height values is long-tailed with the low-height pixels, e.g., the background, as the head, and thus trained networks are usually biased and tend to underestimate building heights. To solve the problems, instead of formalizing the problem as a regression task, we propose HTC-DC Net following the classification-regression paradigm, with the head-tail cut (HTC) and the distribution-based constraints (DCs) as the main contributions. HTC-DC Net is composed of the backbone network as the feature extractor, the HTC-AdaBins module, and the hybrid regression process. The HTC-AdaBins module serves as the classification phase to determine bins adaptive to each input image. It is equipped with a vision transformer encoder to incorporate local context with holistic information and involves an HTC to address the long-tailed problem in monocular height estimation for balancing the performances of foreground and background pixels. The hybrid regression process does the regression via the smoothing of bins from the classification phase, which is trained via DCs. The proposed network is tested on three datasets of different resolutions, namely ISPRS Vaihingen (0.09 m), DFC19 (1.3 m) and GBH (3 m). Experimental results show the superiority of the proposed network over existing methods by large margins. Extensive ablation studies demonstrate the effectiveness of each design component. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** CCEdit: Creative and Controllable Video Editing via Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16496  
**Abstract:** In this work, we present CCEdit, a versatile framework designed to address the challenges of creative and controllable video editing. CCEdit accommodates a wide spectrum of user editing requirements and enables enhanced creative control through an innovative approach that decouples video structure and appearance. We leverage the foundational ControlNet architecture to preserve structural integrity, while seamlessly integrating adaptable temporal modules compatible with state-of-the-art personalization techniques for text-to-image generation, such as DreamBooth and LoRA.Furthermore, we introduce reference-conditioned video editing, empowering users to exercise precise creative control over video editing through the more manageable process of editing key frames. Our extensive experimental evaluations confirm the exceptional functionality and editing capabilities of the proposed CCEdit framework. Demo video is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UQw4jq-igN4. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** HOI4ABOT: Human-Object Interaction Anticipation for Human Intention  Reading Collaborative roBOTs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16524  
**Abstract:** Robots are becoming increasingly integrated into our lives, assisting us in various tasks. To ensure effective collaboration between humans and robots, it is essential that they understand our intentions and anticipate our actions. In this paper, we propose a Human-Object Interaction (HOI) anticipation framework for collaborative robots. We propose an efficient and robust transformer-based model to detect and anticipate HOIs from videos. This enhanced anticipation empowers robots to proactively assist humans, resulting in more efficient and intuitive collaborations. Our model outperforms state-of-the-art results in HOI detection and anticipation in VidHOI dataset with an increase of 1.76% and 1.04% in mAP respectively while being 15.4 times faster. We showcase the effectiveness of our approach through experimental results in a real robot, demonstrating that the robot's ability to anticipate HOIs is key for better Human-Robot Interaction. More information can be found on our project webpage: https://evm7.github.io/HOI4ABOT_page/ 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** MatrixCity: A Large-scale City Dataset for City-scale Neural Rendering  and Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16553  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRF) and its subsequent variants have led to remarkable progress in neural rendering. While most of recent neural rendering works focus on objects and small-scale scenes, developing neural rendering methods for city-scale scenes is of great potential in many real-world applications. However, this line of research is impeded by the absence of a comprehensive and high-quality dataset, yet collecting such a dataset over real city-scale scenes is costly, sensitive, and technically difficult. To this end, we build a large-scale, comprehensive, and high-quality synthetic dataset for city-scale neural rendering researches. Leveraging the Unreal Engine 5 City Sample project, we develop a pipeline to easily collect aerial and street city views, accompanied by ground-truth camera poses and a range of additional data modalities. Flexible controls over environmental factors like light, weather, human and car crowd are also available in our pipeline, supporting the need of various tasks covering city-scale neural rendering and beyond. The resulting pilot dataset, MatrixCity, contains 67k aerial images and 452k street images from two city maps of total size $28km^2$. On top of MatrixCity, a thorough benchmark is also conducted, which not only reveals unique challenges of the task of city-scale neural rendering, but also highlights potential improvements for future works. The dataset and code will be publicly available at our project page: https://city-super.github.io/matrixcity/. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** GPT-Fathom: Benchmarking Large Language Models to Decipher the  Evolutionary Path towards GPT-4 and Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16583  
**Abstract:** With the rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs), there is a pressing need for a comprehensive evaluation suite to assess their capabilities and limitations. Existing LLM leaderboards often reference scores reported in other papers without consistent settings and prompts, which may inadvertently encourage cherry-picking favored settings and prompts for better results. In this work, we introduce GPT-Fathom, an open-source and reproducible LLM evaluation suite built on top of OpenAI Evals. We systematically evaluate 10+ leading LLMs as well as OpenAI's legacy models on 20+ curated benchmarks across 7 capability categories, all under aligned settings. Our retrospective study on OpenAI's earlier models offers valuable insights into the evolutionary path from GPT-3 to GPT-4. Currently, the community is eager to know how GPT-3 progressively improves to GPT-4, including technical details like whether adding code data improves LLM's reasoning capability, which aspects of LLM capability can be improved by SFT and RLHF, how much is the alignment tax, etc. Our analysis sheds light on many of these questions, aiming to improve the transparency of advanced LLMs. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Vision Transformers Need Registers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16588  
**Abstract:** Transformers have recently emerged as a powerful tool for learning visual representations. In this paper, we identify and characterize artifacts in feature maps of both supervised and self-supervised ViT networks. The artifacts correspond to high-norm tokens appearing during inference primarily in low-informative background areas of images, that are repurposed for internal computations. We propose a simple yet effective solution based on providing additional tokens to the input sequence of the Vision Transformer to fill that role. We show that this solution fixes that problem entirely for both supervised and self-supervised models, sets a new state of the art for self-supervised visual models on dense visual prediction tasks, enables object discovery methods with larger models, and most importantly leads to smoother feature maps and attention maps for downstream visual processing. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** KV Inversion: KV Embeddings Learning for Text-Conditioned Real Image  Action Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16608  
**Abstract:** Text-conditioned image editing is a recently emerged and highly practical task, and its potential is immeasurable. However, most of the concurrent methods are unable to perform action editing, i.e. they can not produce results that conform to the action semantics of the editing prompt and preserve the content of the original image. To solve the problem of action editing, we propose KV Inversion, a method that can achieve satisfactory reconstruction performance and action editing, which can solve two major problems: 1) the edited result can match the corresponding action, and 2) the edited object can retain the texture and identity of the original real image. In addition, our method does not require training the Stable Diffusion model itself, nor does it require scanning a large-scale dataset to perform time-consuming training. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Stress Testing Chain-of-Thought Prompting for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16621  
**Abstract:** This report examines the effectiveness of Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting in improving the multi-step reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs). Inspired by previous studies \cite{Min2022RethinkingWork}, we analyze the impact of three types of CoT prompt perturbations, namely CoT order, CoT values, and CoT operators on the performance of GPT-3 on various tasks. Our findings show that incorrect CoT prompting leads to poor performance on accuracy metrics. Correct values in the CoT is crucial for predicting correct answers. Moreover, incorrect demonstrations, where the CoT operators or the CoT order are wrong, do not affect the performance as drastically when compared to the value based perturbations. This research deepens our understanding of CoT prompting and opens some new questions regarding the capability of LLMs to learn reasoning in context. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Deep Geometrized Cartoon Line Inbetweening  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16643  
**Abstract:** We aim to address a significant but understudied problem in the anime industry, namely the inbetweening of cartoon line drawings. Inbetweening involves generating intermediate frames between two black-and-white line drawings and is a time-consuming and expensive process that can benefit from automation. However, existing frame interpolation methods that rely on matching and warping whole raster images are unsuitable for line inbetweening and often produce blurring artifacts that damage the intricate line structures. To preserve the precision and detail of the line drawings, we propose a new approach, AnimeInbet, which geometrizes raster line drawings into graphs of endpoints and reframes the inbetweening task as a graph fusion problem with vertex repositioning. Our method can effectively capture the sparsity and unique structure of line drawings while preserving the details during inbetweening. This is made possible via our novel modules, i.e., vertex geometric embedding, a vertex correspondence Transformer, an effective mechanism for vertex repositioning and a visibility predictor. To train our method, we introduce MixamoLine240, a new dataset of line drawings with ground truth vectorization and matching labels. Our experiments demonstrate that AnimeInbet synthesizes high-quality, clean, and complete intermediate line drawings, outperforming existing methods quantitatively and qualitatively, especially in cases with large motions. Data and code are available at https://github.com/lisiyao21/AnimeInbet. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Improving Equivariance in State-of-the-Art Supervised Depth and Normal  Predictors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16646  
**Abstract:** Dense depth and surface normal predictors should possess the equivariant property to cropping-and-resizing -- cropping the input image should result in cropping the same output image. However, we find that state-of-the-art depth and normal predictors, despite having strong performances, surprisingly do not respect equivariance. The problem exists even when crop-and-resize data augmentation is employed during training. To remedy this, we propose an equivariant regularization technique, consisting of an averaging procedure and a self-consistency loss, to explicitly promote cropping-and-resizing equivariance in depth and normal networks. Our approach can be applied to both CNN and Transformer architectures, does not incur extra cost during testing, and notably improves the supervised and semi-supervised learning performance of dense predictors on Taskonomy tasks. Finally, finetuning with our loss on unlabeled images improves not only equivariance but also accuracy of state-of-the-art depth and normal predictors when evaluated on NYU-v2. GitHub link: https://github.com/mikuhatsune/equivariance 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** FLIP: Cross-domain Face Anti-spoofing with Language Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16649  
**Abstract:** Face anti-spoofing (FAS) or presentation attack detection is an essential component of face recognition systems deployed in security-critical applications. Existing FAS methods have poor generalizability to unseen spoof types, camera sensors, and environmental conditions. Recently, vision transformer (ViT) models have been shown to be effective for the FAS task due to their ability to capture long-range dependencies among image patches. However, adaptive modules or auxiliary loss functions are often required to adapt pre-trained ViT weights learned on large-scale datasets such as ImageNet. In this work, we first show that initializing ViTs with multimodal (e.g., CLIP) pre-trained weights improves generalizability for the FAS task, which is in line with the zero-shot transfer capabilities of vision-language pre-trained (VLP) models. We then propose a novel approach for robust cross-domain FAS by grounding visual representations with the help of natural language. Specifically, we show that aligning the image representation with an ensemble of class descriptions (based on natural language semantics) improves FAS generalizability in low-data regimes. Finally, we propose a multimodal contrastive learning strategy to boost feature generalization further and bridge the gap between source and target domains. Extensive experiments on three standard protocols demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods, achieving better zero-shot transfer performance than five-shot transfer of adaptive ViTs. Code: https://github.com/koushiksrivats/FLIP 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Visual In-Context Learning for Few-Shot Eczema Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16656  
**Abstract:** Automated diagnosis of eczema from digital camera images is crucial for developing applications that allow patients to self-monitor their recovery. An important component of this is the segmentation of eczema region from such images. Current methods for eczema segmentation rely on deep neural networks such as convolutional (CNN)-based U-Net or transformer-based Swin U-Net. While effective, these methods require high volume of annotated data, which can be difficult to obtain. Here, we investigate the capabilities of visual in-context learning that can perform few-shot eczema segmentation with just a handful of examples and without any need for retraining models. Specifically, we propose a strategy for applying in-context learning for eczema segmentation with a generalist vision model called SegGPT. When benchmarked on a dataset of annotated eczema images, we show that SegGPT with just 2 representative example images from the training dataset performs better (mIoU: 36.69) than a CNN U-Net trained on 428 images (mIoU: 32.60). We also discover that using more number of examples for SegGPT may in fact be harmful to its performance. Our result highlights the importance of visual in-context learning in developing faster and better solutions to skin imaging tasks. Our result also paves the way for developing inclusive solutions that can cater to minorities in the demographics who are typically heavily under-represented in the training data. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Demystifying CLIP Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16671  
**Abstract:** Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) is an approach that has advanced research and applications in computer vision, fueling modern recognition systems and generative models. We believe that the main ingredient to the success of CLIP is its data and not the model architecture or pre-training objective. However, CLIP only provides very limited information about its data and how it has been collected, leading to works that aim to reproduce CLIP's data by filtering with its model parameters. In this work, we intend to reveal CLIP's data curation approach and in our pursuit of making it open to the community introduce Metadata-Curated Language-Image Pre-training (MetaCLIP). MetaCLIP takes a raw data pool and metadata (derived from CLIP's concepts) and yields a balanced subset over the metadata distribution. Our experimental study rigorously isolates the model and training settings, concentrating solely on data. MetaCLIP applied to CommonCrawl with 400M image-text data pairs outperforms CLIP's data on multiple standard benchmarks. In zero-shot ImageNet classification, MetaCLIP achieves 70.8% accuracy, surpassing CLIP's 68.3% on ViT-B models. Scaling to 1B data, while maintaining the same training budget, attains 72.4%. Our observations hold across various model sizes, exemplified by ViT-H achieving 80.5%, without any bells-and-whistles. Curation code and training data distribution on metadata is made available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/MetaCLIP. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** High Perceptual Quality Wireless Image Delivery with Denoising Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15889  
**Abstract:** We consider the image transmission problem over a noisy wireless channel via deep learning-based joint source-channel coding (DeepJSCC) along with a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) at the receiver. Specifically, we are interested in the perception-distortion trade-off in the practical finite block length regime, in which separate source and channel coding can be highly suboptimal. We introduce a novel scheme that utilizes the range-null space decomposition of the target image. We transmit the range-space of the image after encoding and employ DDPM to progressively refine its null space contents. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate significant improvements in distortion and perceptual quality of reconstructed images compared to standard DeepJSCC and the state-of-the-art generative learning-based method. We will publicly share our source code to facilitate further research and reproducibility. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Hierarchical Cross-Modality Knowledge Transfer with Sinkhorn Attention  for CTC-based ASR  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16093  
**Abstract:** Due to the modality discrepancy between textual and acoustic modeling, efficiently transferring linguistic knowledge from a pretrained language model (PLM) to acoustic encoding for automatic speech recognition (ASR) still remains a challenging task. In this study, we propose a cross-modality knowledge transfer (CMKT) learning framework in a temporal connectionist temporal classification (CTC) based ASR system where hierarchical acoustic alignments with the linguistic representation are applied. Additionally, we propose the use of Sinkhorn attention in cross-modality alignment process, where the transformer attention is a special case of this Sinkhorn attention process. The CMKT learning is supposed to compel the acoustic encoder to encode rich linguistic knowledge for ASR. On the AISHELL-1 dataset, with CTC greedy decoding for inference (without using any language model), we achieved state-of-the-art performance with 3.64% and 3.94% character error rates (CERs) for the development and test sets, which corresponding to relative improvements of 34.18% and 34.88% compared to the baseline CTC-ASR system, respectively. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Cross-Modal Transformer GAN: Brain Structural-Functional Deep Fusing  Network for Alzheimer's Disease Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16206  
**Abstract:** Fusing structural-functional images of the brain has shown great potential to analyze the deterioration of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is a big challenge to effectively fuse the correlated and complementary information from multimodal neuroimages. In this paper, a novel model termed cross-modal transformer generative adversarial network (CT-GAN) is proposed to effectively fuse the functional and structural information contained in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). The CT-GAN can learn topological features and generate multimodal connectivity from multimodal imaging data in an efficient end-to-end manner. Moreover, the swapping bi-attention mechanism is designed to gradually align common features and effectively enhance the complementary features between modalities. By analyzing the generated connectivity features, the proposed model can identify AD-related brain connections. Evaluations on the public ADNI dataset show that the proposed CT-GAN can dramatically improve prediction performance and detect AD-related brain regions effectively. The proposed model also provides new insights for detecting AD-related abnormal neural circuits. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Abdominal multi-organ segmentation in CT using Swinunter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16210  
**Abstract:** Abdominal multi-organ segmentation in computed tomography (CT) is crucial for many clinical applications including disease detection and treatment planning. Deep learning methods have shown unprecedented performance in this perspective. However, it is still quite challenging to accurately segment different organs utilizing a single network due to the vague boundaries of organs, the complex background, and the substantially different organ size scales. In this work we used make transformer-based model for training. It was found through previous years' competitions that basically all of the top 5 methods used CNN-based methods, which is likely due to the lack of data volume that prevents transformer-based methods from taking full advantage. The thousands of samples in this competition may enable the transformer-based model to have more excellent results. The results on the public validation set also show that the transformer-based model can achieve an acceptable result and inference time. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Language models in molecular discovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16235  
**Abstract:** The success of language models, especially transformer-based architectures, has trickled into other domains giving rise to "scientific language models" that operate on small molecules, proteins or polymers. In chemistry, language models contribute to accelerating the molecule discovery cycle as evidenced by promising recent findings in early-stage drug discovery. Here, we review the role of language models in molecular discovery, underlining their strength in de novo drug design, property prediction and reaction chemistry. We highlight valuable open-source software assets thus lowering the entry barrier to the field of scientific language modeling. Last, we sketch a vision for future molecular design that combines a chatbot interface with access to computational chemistry tools. Our contribution serves as a valuable resource for researchers, chemists, and AI enthusiasts interested in understanding how language models can and will be used to accelerate chemical discovery. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Long time behavior of the field-road diffusion model: an entropy method  and a finite volume scheme  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16242  
**Abstract:** We consider the so-called field-road diffusion model in a bounded domain, consisting of two parabolic PDEs posed on sets of different dimensions (a {\it field} and a {\it road} in a population dynamics context) and coupled through exchange terms on the road, which makes its analysis quite involved. We propose a TPFA finite volume scheme. In both the continuous and the discrete settings, we prove theexponential decay of an entropy, and thus the long time convergence to the stationary state selected by the total mass of the initial data. To deal with the problem of different dimensions, we artificially \lq\lq thicken'' the road and, then, establish a rather unconventional Poincar{\'e}-Wirtinger inequality. Numerical simulations confirm and complete the analysis, and raise new issues. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** QonFusion -- Quantum Approaches to Gaussian Random Variables:  Applications in Stable Diffusion and Brownian Motion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16258  
**Abstract:** In the present study, we delineate a strategy focused on non-parametric quantum circuits for the generation of Gaussian random variables (GRVs). This quantum-centric approach serves as a substitute for conventional pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs), such as the \textbf{torch.rand} function in PyTorch. The principal theme of our research is the incorporation of Quantum Random Number Generators (QRNGs) into classical models of diffusion. Notably, our Quantum Gaussian Random Variable Generator fulfills dual roles, facilitating simulations in both Stable Diffusion (SD) and Brownian Motion (BM). This diverges markedly from prevailing methods that utilize parametric quantum circuits (PQCs), often in conjunction with variational quantum eigensolvers (VQEs). Although conventional techniques can accurately approximate ground states in complex systems or model elaborate probability distributions, they require a computationally demanding optimization process to tune parameters. Our non-parametric strategy obviates this necessity. To facilitate assimilating our methodology into existing computational frameworks, we put forward QonFusion, a Python library congruent with both PyTorch and PennyLane, functioning as a bridge between classical and quantum computational paradigms. We validate QonFusion through extensive statistical testing, including tests which confirm the statistical equivalence of the Gaussian samples from our quantum approach to classical counterparts within defined significance limits. QonFusion is available at \url{https://boltzmannentropy.github.io/qonfusion.github.io/} to reproduce all findings here. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Astroconformer: The Prospects of Analyzing Stellar Light Curves with  Transformer-Based Deep Learning Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16316  
**Abstract:** Light curves of stars encapsulate a wealth of information about stellar oscillations and granulation, thereby offering key insights into the internal structure and evolutionary state of stars. Conventional asteroseismic techniques have been largely confined to power spectral analysis, neglecting the valuable phase information contained within light curves. While recent machine learning applications in asteroseismology utilizing Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have successfully inferred stellar attributes from light curves, they are often limited by the local feature extraction inherent in convolutional operations. To circumvent these constraints, we present $\textit{Astroconformer}$, a Transformer-based deep learning framework designed to capture long-range dependencies in stellar light curves. Our empirical analysis, which focuses on estimating surface gravity ($\log g$), is grounded in a carefully curated dataset derived from $\textit{Kepler}$ light curves. These light curves feature asteroseismic $\log g$ values spanning from 0.2 to 4.4. Our results underscore that, in the regime where the training data is abundant, $\textit{Astroconformer}$ attains a root-mean-square-error (RMSE) of 0.017 dex around $\log g \approx 3 $. Even in regions where training data are sparse, the RMSE can reach 0.1 dex. It outperforms not only the K-nearest neighbor-based model ($\textit{The SWAN}$) but also state-of-the-art CNNs. Ablation studies confirm that the efficacy of the models in this particular task is strongly influenced by the size of their receptive fields, with larger receptive fields correlating with enhanced performance. Moreover, we find that the attention mechanisms within $\textit{Astroconformer}$ are well-aligned with the inherent characteristics of stellar oscillations and granulation present in the light curves. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** VAE-based latent-space classification of RNO-G data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16401  
**Abstract:** The Radio Neutrino Observatory in Greenland (RNO-G) is a radio-based ultra-high energy neutrino detector located at Summit Station, Greenland. It is still being constructed, with 7 stations currently operational. Neutrino detection works by measuring Askaryan radiation produced by neutrino-nucleon interactions. A neutrino candidate must be found amidst other backgrounds which are recorded at much higher rates -- including cosmic-rays and anthropogenic noise -- the origins of which are sometimes unknown. Here we describe a method to classify different noise classes using the latent space of a variational autoencoder. The latent space forms a compact representation that makes classification tractable. We analyze data from a noisy and a silent station. The method automatically detects and allows us to qualitatively separate multiple event classes, including physical wind-induced signals, for both the noisy and the quiet station. 

