**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Improving NeRF Quality by Progressive Camera Placement for Unrestricted  Navigation in Complex Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00014  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields, or NeRFs, have drastically improved novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction for rendering. NeRFs achieve impressive results on object-centric reconstructions, but the quality of novel view synthesis with free-viewpoint navigation in complex environments (rooms, houses, etc) is often problematic. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Exploring the Potential of Large Language Models to Generate Formative  Programming Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00029  
**Abstract:** Ever since the emergence of large language models (LLMs) and related applications, such as ChatGPT, its performance and error analysis for programming tasks have been subject to research. In this work-in-progress paper, we explore the potential of such LLMs for computing educators and learners, as we analyze the feedback it generates to a given input containing program code. In particular, we aim at (1) exploring how an LLM like ChatGPT responds to students seeking help with their introductory programming tasks, and (2) identifying feedback types in its responses. To achieve these goals, we used students' programming sequences from a dataset gathered within a CS1 course as input for ChatGPT along with questions required to elicit feedback and correct solutions. The results show that ChatGPT performs reasonably well for some of the introductory programming tasks and student errors, which means that students can potentially benefit. However, educators should provide guidance on how to use the provided feedback, as it can contain misleading information for novices. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** YaRN: Efficient Context Window Extension of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00071  
**Abstract:** Rotary Position Embeddings (RoPE) have been shown to effectively encode positional information in transformer-based language models. However, these models fail to generalize past the sequence length they were trained on. We present YaRN (Yet another RoPE extensioN method), a compute-efficient method to extend the context window of such models, requiring 10x less tokens and 2.5x less training steps than previous methods. Using YaRN, we show that LLaMA models can effectively utilize and extrapolate to context lengths much longer than their original pre-training would allow, while also surpassing previous the state-of-the-art at context window extension. In addition, we demonstrate that YaRN exhibits the capability to extrapolate beyond the limited context of a fine-tuning dataset. We publish the checkpoints of Llama 2 7B/13B fine-tuned using YaRN with 64k and 128k context windows at https://github.com/jquesnelle/yarn 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Experimenting with ChatGPT for Spreadsheet Formula Generation: Evidence  of Risk in AI Generated Spreadsheets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00095  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLM) have become sophisticated enough that complex computer programs can be created through interpretation of plain English sentences and implemented in a variety of modern languages such as Python, Java Script, C++ and Spreadsheets. These tools are powerful and relatively accurate and therefore provide broad access to computer programming regardless of the background or knowledge of the individual using them. This paper presents a series of experiments with ChatGPT to explore the tool's ability to produce valid spreadsheet formulae and related computational outputs in situations where ChatGPT has to deduce, infer and problem solve the answer. The results show that in certain circumstances, ChatGPT can produce correct spreadsheet formulae with correct reasoning, deduction and inference. However, when information is limited, uncertain or the problem is too complex, the accuracy of ChatGPT breaks down as does its ability to reason, infer and deduce. This can also result in false statements and "hallucinations" that all subvert the process of creating spreadsheet formulae. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Unsupervised evaluation of GAN sample quality: Introducing the TTJac  Score  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00107  
**Abstract:** Evaluation metrics are essential for assessing the performance of generative models in image synthesis. However, existing metrics often involve high memory and time consumption as they compute the distance between generated samples and real data points. In our study, the new evaluation metric called the "TTJac score" is proposed to measure the fidelity of individual synthesized images in a data-free manner. The study first establishes a theoretical approach to directly evaluate the generated sample density. Then, a method incorporating feature extractors and discrete function approximation through tensor train is introduced to effectively assess the quality of generated samples. Furthermore, the study demonstrates that this new metric can be used to improve the fidelity-variability trade-off when applying the truncation trick. The experimental results of applying the proposed metric to StyleGAN 2 and StyleGAN 2 ADA models on FFHQ, AFHQ-Wild, LSUN-Cars, and LSUN-Horse datasets are presented. The code used in this research will be made publicly available online for the research community to access and utilize. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Laplacian-Former: Overcoming the Limitations of Vision Transformers in  Local Texture Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00108  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformer (ViT) models have demonstrated a breakthrough in a wide range of computer vision tasks. However, compared to the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) models, it has been observed that the ViT models struggle to capture high-frequency components of images, which can limit their ability to detect local textures and edge information. As abnormalities in human tissue, such as tumors and lesions, may greatly vary in structure, texture, and shape, high-frequency information such as texture is crucial for effective semantic segmentation tasks. To address this limitation in ViT models, we propose a new technique, Laplacian-Former, that enhances the self-attention map by adaptively re-calibrating the frequency information in a Laplacian pyramid. More specifically, our proposed method utilizes a dual attention mechanism via efficient attention and frequency attention while the efficient attention mechanism reduces the complexity of self-attention to linear while producing the same output, selectively intensifying the contribution of shape and texture features. Furthermore, we introduce a novel efficient enhancement multi-scale bridge that effectively transfers spatial information from the encoder to the decoder while preserving the fundamental features. We demonstrate the efficacy of Laplacian-former on multi-organ and skin lesion segmentation tasks with +1.87\% and +0.76\% dice scores compared to SOTA approaches, respectively. Our implementation is publically available at https://github.com/mindflow-institue/Laplacian-Former 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** ChatGPT and Excel -- trust, but verify  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00120  
**Abstract:** This paper adopts a critical approach to ChatGPT, showing how its huge reach makes it a useful tool for people with simple requirements but a bad, even misleading guide to those with more complex problems which are more rarely present in the training data and even more rarely have straightforward solutions. It works through four exercises in creating lookup formulas using chatbots, showing the need to test the offered solutions. They are a simple lookup, a lookup to the left, a match of two values at the same time, and intentionally confusing the models by using common language with technical meaning in Excel. It concludes with a practical guide for how to add an Excelscript button, with system and user prompts, to the ChatGPT API into the Excel desktop environment, supported by a blog post giving the technical details for those interested. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Beyond Self-Attention: Deformable Large Kernel Attention for Medical  Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00121  
**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation has seen significant improvements with transformer models, which excel in grasping far-reaching contexts and global contextual information. However, the increasing computational demands of these models, proportional to the squared token count, limit their depth and resolution capabilities. Most current methods process D volumetric image data slice-by-slice (called pseudo 3D), missing crucial inter-slice information and thus reducing the model's overall performance. To address these challenges, we introduce the concept of \textbf{Deformable Large Kernel Attention (D-LKA Attention)}, a streamlined attention mechanism employing large convolution kernels to fully appreciate volumetric context. This mechanism operates within a receptive field akin to self-attention while sidestepping the computational overhead. Additionally, our proposed attention mechanism benefits from deformable convolutions to flexibly warp the sampling grid, enabling the model to adapt appropriately to diverse data patterns. We designed both 2D and 3D adaptations of the D-LKA Attention, with the latter excelling in cross-depth data understanding. Together, these components shape our novel hierarchical Vision Transformer architecture, the \textit{D-LKA Net}. Evaluations of our model against leading methods on popular medical segmentation datasets (Synapse, NIH Pancreas, and Skin lesion) demonstrate its superior performance. Our code implementation is publicly available at the: https://github.com/mindflow-institue/deformableLKA 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** QS-TTS: Towards Semi-Supervised Text-to-Speech Synthesis via  Vector-Quantized Self-Supervised Speech Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00126  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a novel semi-supervised TTS framework, QS-TTS, to improve TTS quality with lower supervised data requirements via Vector-Quantized Self-Supervised Speech Representation Learning (VQ-S3RL) utilizing more unlabeled speech audio. This framework comprises two VQ-S3R learners: first, the principal learner aims to provide a generative Multi-Stage Multi-Codebook (MSMC) VQ-S3R via the MSMC-VQ-GAN combined with the contrastive S3RL, while decoding it back to the high-quality audio; then, the associate learner further abstracts the MSMC representation into a highly-compact VQ representation through a VQ-VAE. These two generative VQ-S3R learners provide profitable speech representations and pre-trained models for TTS, significantly improving synthesis quality with the lower requirement for supervised data. QS-TTS is evaluated comprehensively under various scenarios via subjective and objective tests in experiments. The results powerfully demonstrate the superior performance of QS-TTS, winning the highest MOS over supervised or semi-supervised baseline TTS approaches, especially in low-resource scenarios. Moreover, comparing various speech representations and transfer learning methods in TTS further validates the notable improvement of the proposed VQ-S3RL to TTS, showing the best audio quality and intelligibility metrics. The trend of slower decay in the synthesis quality of QS-TTS with decreasing supervised data further highlights its lower requirements for supervised data, indicating its great potential in low-resource scenarios. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** BuilDiff: 3D Building Shape Generation using Single-Image Conditional  Point Cloud Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00158  
**Abstract:** 3D building generation with low data acquisition costs, such as single image-to-3D, becomes increasingly important. However, most of the existing single image-to-3D building creation works are restricted to those images with specific viewing angles, hence they are difficult to scale to general-view images that commonly appear in practical cases. To fill this gap, we propose a novel 3D building shape generation method exploiting point cloud diffusion models with image conditioning schemes, which demonstrates flexibility to the input images. By cooperating two conditional diffusion models and introducing a regularization strategy during denoising process, our method is able to synthesize building roofs while maintaining the overall structures. We validate our framework on two newly built datasets and extensive experiments show that our method outperforms previous works in terms of building generation quality. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Diffusion Model with Clustering-based Conditioning for Food Image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00199  
**Abstract:** Image-based dietary assessment serves as an efficient and accurate solution for recording and analyzing nutrition intake using eating occasion images as input. Deep learning-based techniques are commonly used to perform image analysis such as food classification, segmentation, and portion size estimation, which rely on large amounts of food images with annotations for training. However, such data dependency poses significant barriers to real-world applications, because acquiring a substantial, diverse, and balanced set of food images can be challenging. One potential solution is to use synthetic food images for data augmentation. Although existing work has explored the use of generative adversarial networks (GAN) based structures for generation, the quality of synthetic food images still remains subpar. In addition, while diffusion-based generative models have shown promising results for general image generation tasks, the generation of food images can be challenging due to the substantial intra-class variance. In this paper, we investigate the generation of synthetic food images based on the conditional diffusion model and propose an effective clustering-based training framework, named ClusDiff, for generating high-quality and representative food images. The proposed method is evaluated on the Food-101 dataset and shows improved performance when compared with existing image generation works. We also demonstrate that the synthetic food images generated by ClusDiff can help address the severe class imbalance issue in long-tailed food classification using the VFN-LT dataset. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Large Language Models for Semantic Monitoring of Corporate Disclosures:  A Case Study on Korea's Top 50 KOSPI Companies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00208  
**Abstract:** In the rapidly advancing domain of artificial intelligence, state-of-the-art language models such as OpenAI's GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 offer unprecedented opportunities for automating complex tasks. This research paper delves into the capabilities of these models for semantically analyzing corporate disclosures in the Korean context, specifically for timely disclosure. The study focuses on the top 50 publicly traded companies listed on the Korean KOSPI, based on market capitalization, and scrutinizes their monthly disclosure summaries over a period of 17 months. Each summary was assigned a sentiment rating on a scale ranging from 1(very negative) to 5(very positive). To gauge the effectiveness of the language models, their sentiment ratings were compared with those generated by human experts. Our findings reveal a notable performance disparity between GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4, with the latter demonstrating significant accuracy in human evaluation tests. The Spearman correlation coefficient was registered at 0.61, while the simple concordance rate was recorded at 0.82. This research contributes valuable insights into the evaluative characteristics of GPT models, thereby laying the groundwork for future innovations in the field of automated semantic monitoring. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** What Makes Good Open-Vocabulary Detector: A Disassembling Perspective  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00227  
**Abstract:** Open-vocabulary detection (OVD) is a new object detection paradigm, aiming to localize and recognize unseen objects defined by an unbounded vocabulary. This is challenging since traditional detectors can only learn from pre-defined categories and thus fail to detect and localize objects out of pre-defined vocabulary. To handle the challenge, OVD leverages pre-trained cross-modal VLM, such as CLIP, ALIGN, etc. Previous works mainly focus on the open vocabulary classification part, with less attention on the localization part. We argue that for a good OVD detector, both classification and localization should be parallelly studied for the novel object categories. We show in this work that improving localization as well as cross-modal classification complement each other, and compose a good OVD detector jointly. We analyze three families of OVD methods with different design emphases. We first propose a vanilla method,i.e., cropping a bounding box obtained by a localizer and resizing it into the CLIP. We next introduce another approach, which combines a standard two-stage object detector with CLIP. A two-stage object detector includes a visual backbone, a region proposal network (RPN), and a region of interest (RoI) head. We decouple RPN and ROI head (DRR) and use RoIAlign to extract meaningful features. In this case, it avoids resizing objects. To further accelerate the training time and reduce the model parameters, we couple RPN and ROI head (CRR) as the third approach. We conduct extensive experiments on these three types of approaches in different settings. On the OVD-COCO benchmark, DRR obtains the best performance and achieves 35.8 Novel AP$_{50}$, an absolute 2.8 gain over the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA). For OVD-LVIS, DRR surpasses the previous SOTA by 1.9 AP$_{50}$ in rare categories. We also provide an object detection dataset called PID and provide a baseline on PID. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** JoTR: A Joint Transformer and Reinforcement Learning Framework for  Dialog Policy Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00230  
**Abstract:** Dialogue policy learning (DPL) is a crucial component of dialogue modelling. Its primary role is to determine the appropriate abstract response, commonly referred to as the "dialogue action". Traditional DPL methodologies have treated this as a sequential decision problem, using pre-defined action candidates extracted from a corpus. However, these incomplete candidates can significantly limit the diversity of responses and pose challenges when dealing with edge cases, which are scenarios that occur only at extreme operating parameters. To address these limitations, we introduce a novel framework, JoTR. This framework is unique as it leverages a text-to-text Transformer-based model to generate flexible dialogue actions. Unlike traditional methods, JoTR formulates a word-level policy that allows for a more dynamic and adaptable dialogue action generation, without the need for any action templates. This setting enhances the diversity of responses and improves the system's ability to handle edge cases effectively. In addition, JoTR employs reinforcement learning with a reward-shaping mechanism to efficiently finetune the word-level dialogue policy, which allows the model to learn from its interactions, improving its performance over time. We conducted an extensive evaluation of JoTR to assess its effectiveness. Our extensive evaluation shows that JoTR achieves state-of-the-art performance on two benchmark dialogue modelling tasks, as assessed by both user simulators and human evaluators. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Image Hijacking: Adversarial Images can Control Generative Models at  Runtime  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00236  
**Abstract:** Are foundation models secure from malicious actors? In this work, we focus on the image input to a vision-language model (VLM). We discover image hijacks, adversarial images that control generative models at runtime. We introduce Behavior Matching, a general method for creating image hijacks, and we use it to explore three types of attacks. Specific string attacks generate arbitrary output of the adversary's choosing. Leak context attacks leak information from the context window into the output. Jailbreak attacks circumvent a model's safety training. We study these attacks against LLaVA-2, a state-of-the-art VLM based on CLIP and LLaMA-2, and find that all our attack types have above a 90\% success rate. Moreover, our attacks are automated and require only small image perturbations. These findings raise serious concerns about the security of foundation models. If image hijacks are as difficult to defend against as adversarial examples in CIFAR-10, then it might be many years before a solution is found -- if it even exists. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Publicly Shareable Clinical Large Language Model Built on Synthetic  Clinical Notes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00237  
**Abstract:** The development of large language models tailored for handling patients' clinical notes is often hindered by the limited accessibility and usability of these notes due to strict privacy regulations. To address these challenges, we first create synthetic large-scale clinical notes using publicly available case reports extracted from biomedical literature. We then use these synthetic notes to train our specialized clinical large language model, Asclepius. While Asclepius is trained on synthetic data, we assess its potential performance in real-world applications by evaluating it using real clinical notes. We benchmark Asclepius against several other large language models, including GPT-3.5-turbo and other open-source alternatives. To further validate our approach using synthetic notes, we also compare Asclepius with its variants trained on real clinical notes. Our findings convincingly demonstrate that synthetic clinical notes can serve as viable substitutes for real ones when constructing high-performing clinical language models. This conclusion is supported by detailed evaluations conducted by both GPT-4 and medical professionals. All resources including weights, codes, and data used in the development of Asclepius are made publicly accessible for future research. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** DiffuGen: Adaptable Approach for Generating Labeled Image Datasets using  Stable Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00248  
**Abstract:** Generating high-quality labeled image datasets is crucial for training accurate and robust machine learning models in the field of computer vision. However, the process of manually labeling real images is often time-consuming and costly. To address these challenges associated with dataset generation, we introduce "DiffuGen," a simple and adaptable approach that harnesses the power of stable diffusion models to create labeled image datasets efficiently. By leveraging stable diffusion models, our approach not only ensures the quality of generated datasets but also provides a versatile solution for label generation. In this paper, we present the methodology behind DiffuGen, which combines the capabilities of diffusion models with two distinct labeling techniques: unsupervised and supervised. Distinctively, DiffuGen employs prompt templating for adaptable image generation and textual inversion to enhance diffusion model capabilities. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Why do universal adversarial attacks work on large language models?:  Geometry might be the answer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00254  
**Abstract:** Transformer based large language models with emergent capabilities are becoming increasingly ubiquitous in society. However, the task of understanding and interpreting their internal workings, in the context of adversarial attacks, remains largely unsolved. Gradient-based universal adversarial attacks have been shown to be highly effective on large language models and potentially dangerous due to their input-agnostic nature. This work presents a novel geometric perspective explaining universal adversarial attacks on large language models. By attacking the 117M parameter GPT-2 model, we find evidence indicating that universal adversarial triggers could be embedding vectors which merely approximate the semantic information in their adversarial training region. This hypothesis is supported by white-box model analysis comprising dimensionality reduction and similarity measurement of hidden representations. We believe this new geometric perspective on the underlying mechanism driving universal attacks could help us gain deeper insight into the internal workings and failure modes of LLMs, thus enabling their mitigation. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** SparseSat-NeRF: Dense Depth Supervised Neural Radiance Fields for Sparse  Satellite Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00277  
**Abstract:** Digital surface model generation using traditional multi-view stereo matching (MVS) performs poorly over non-Lambertian surfaces, with asynchronous acquisitions, or at discontinuities. Neural radiance fields (NeRF) offer a new paradigm for reconstructing surface geometries using continuous volumetric representation. NeRF is self-supervised, does not require ground truth geometry for training, and provides an elegant way to include in its representation physical parameters about the scene, thus potentially remedying the challenging scenarios where MVS fails. However, NeRF and its variants require many views to produce convincing scene's geometries which in earth observation satellite imaging is rare. In this paper we present SparseSat-NeRF (SpS-NeRF) - an extension of Sat-NeRF adapted to sparse satellite views. SpS-NeRF employs dense depth supervision guided by crosscorrelation similarity metric provided by traditional semi-global MVS matching. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on stereo and tri-stereo Pleiades 1B/WorldView-3 images, and compare against NeRF and Sat-NeRF. The code is available at https://github.com/LulinZhang/SpS-NeRF 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Fast Diffusion EM: a diffusion model for blind inverse problems with  application to deconvolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00287  
**Abstract:** Using diffusion models to solve inverse problems is a growing field of research. Current methods assume the degradation to be known and provide impressive results in terms of restoration quality and diversity. In this work, we leverage the efficiency of those models to jointly estimate the restored image and unknown parameters of the degradation model. In particular, we designed an algorithm based on the well-known Expectation-Minimization (EM) estimation method and diffusion models. Our method alternates between approximating the expected log-likelihood of the inverse problem using samples drawn from a diffusion model and a maximization step to estimate unknown model parameters. For the maximization step, we also introduce a novel blur kernel regularization based on a Plug \& Play denoiser. Diffusion models are long to run, thus we provide a fast version of our algorithm. Extensive experiments on blind image deblurring demonstrate the effectiveness of our method when compared to other state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Robust Point Cloud Processing through Positional Embedding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00339  
**Abstract:** End-to-end trained per-point embeddings are an essential ingredient of any state-of-the-art 3D point cloud processing such as detection or alignment. Methods like PointNet, or the more recent point cloud transformer -- and its variants -- all employ learned per-point embeddings. Despite impressive performance, such approaches are sensitive to out-of-distribution (OOD) noise and outliers. In this paper, we explore the role of an analytical per-point embedding based on the criterion of bandwidth. The concept of bandwidth enables us to draw connections with an alternate per-point embedding -- positional embedding, particularly random Fourier features. We present compelling robust results across downstream tasks such as point cloud classification and registration with several categories of OOD noise. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Where Did the Gap Go? Reassessing the Long-Range Graph Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00367  
**Abstract:** The recent Long-Range Graph Benchmark (LRGB, Dwivedi et al. 2022) introduced a set of graph learning tasks strongly dependent on long-range interaction between vertices. Empirical evidence suggests that on these tasks Graph Transformers significantly outperform Message Passing GNNs (MPGNNs). In this paper, we carefully reevaluate multiple MPGNN baselines as well as the Graph Transformer GPS (Ramp\'a\v{s}ek et al. 2022) on LRGB. Through a rigorous empirical analysis, we demonstrate that the reported performance gap is overestimated due to suboptimal hyperparameter choices. It is noteworthy that across multiple datasets the performance gap completely vanishes after basic hyperparameter optimization. In addition, we discuss the impact of lacking feature normalization for LRGB's vision datasets and highlight a spurious implementation of LRGB's link prediction metric. The principal aim of our paper is to establish a higher standard of empirical rigor within the graph machine learning community. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** BatchPrompt: Accomplish more with less  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00384  
**Abstract:** Many LLMs are trained to perform zero-shot or few-shot inference using instruction-based prompts. Crafting prompts for these LLMs typically requires the user to provide a detailed task description, examples of context and completion, and single example of context for inference. This regular prompt baseline is referred to as SinglePrompt in this paper. However, for NLP tasks where each data point for inference is not necessarily lengthy, the token count for instructions and few-shot examples in the prompt may be considerably larger than that of the data point, resulting in lower token-resource utilization compared with encoder-based models like fine-tuned BERT. This cost-efficiency issue, affecting inference speed and compute budget, counteracts the many benefits LLMs have to offer. This paper aims to alleviate the preceding problem by batching multiple data points into a single prompt, a prompting strategy we refer to as BatchPrompt. This strategy increases the density of data points, which in turn leads to improved token utilization. Applying BatchPrompt naively, however, is very challenging due to significant performance degradation, as observed in our experiments. We also noticed varying inference outcomes for the same data point appearing in different positions within a prompt. To address the quality issue while remain high token-resource utilization, we introduce Batch Permutation and Ensembling for BatchPrompt, a simple way that recovers labeling quality through majority votes from data points placed in varying positions in a batch at the price of more token usage. To counterbalance the additional token usage caused by the voting process, we further propose Self-reflection-guided EArly Stopping, which can terminate the voting process early for data points the LLM confidently handles. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** VideoGen: A Reference-Guided Latent Diffusion Approach for High  Definition Text-to-Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00398  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present VideoGen, a text-to-video generation approach, which can generate a high-definition video with high frame fidelity and strong temporal consistency using reference-guided latent diffusion. We leverage an off-the-shelf text-to-image generation model, e.g., Stable Diffusion, to generate an image with high content quality from the text prompt, as a reference image to guide video generation. Then, we introduce an efficient cascaded latent diffusion module conditioned on both the reference image and the text prompt, for generating latent video representations, followed by a flow-based temporal upsampling step to improve the temporal resolution. Finally, we map latent video representations into a high-definition video through an enhanced video decoder. During training, we use the first frame of a ground-truth video as the reference image for training the cascaded latent diffusion module. The main characterises of our approach include: the reference image generated by the text-to-image model improves the visual fidelity; using it as the condition makes the diffusion model focus more on learning the video dynamics; and the video decoder is trained over unlabeled video data, thus benefiting from high-quality easily-available videos. VideoGen sets a new state-of-the-art in text-to-video generation in terms of both qualitative and quantitative evaluation. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** CoNeTTE: An efficient Audio Captioning system leveraging multiple  datasets with Task Embedding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00454  
**Abstract:** Automated Audio Captioning (AAC) involves generating natural language descriptions of audio content, using encoder-decoder architectures. An audio encoder produces audio embeddings fed to a decoder, usually a Transformer decoder, for caption generation. In this work, we describe our model, which novelty, compared to existing models, lies in the use of a ConvNeXt architecture as audio encoder, adapted from the vision domain to audio classification. This model, called CNext-trans, achieved state-of-the-art scores on the AudioCaps (AC) dataset and performed competitively on Clotho (CL), while using four to forty times fewer parameters than existing models. We examine potential biases in the AC dataset due to its origin from AudioSet by investigating unbiased encoder's impact on performance. Using the well-known PANN's CNN14, for instance, as an unbiased encoder, we observed a 1.7% absolute reduction in SPIDEr score (where higher scores indicate better performance). To improve cross-dataset performance, we conducted experiments by combining multiple AAC datasets (AC, CL, MACS, WavCaps) for training. Although this strategy enhanced overall model performance across datasets, it still fell short compared to models trained specifically on a single target dataset, indicating the absence of a one-size-fits-all model. To mitigate performance gaps between datasets, we introduced a Task Embedding (TE) token, allowing the model to identify the source dataset for each input sample. We provide insights into the impact of these TEs on both the form (words) and content (sound event types) of the generated captions. The resulting model, named CoNeTTE, an unbiased CNext-trans model enriched with dataset-specific Task Embeddings, achieved SPIDEr scores of 44.1% and 30.5% on AC and CL, respectively. Code available: https://github.com/Labbeti/conette-audio-captioning. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** An Improved Encoder-Decoder Framework for Food EnergyEstimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00468  
**Abstract:** Dietary assessment is essential to maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Automatic image-based dietary assessment is a growing field of research due to the increasing prevalence of image capturing devices (e.g. mobile phones). In this work, we estimate food energy from a single monocular image, a difficult task due to the limited hard-to-extract amount of energy information present in an image. To do so, we employ an improved encoder-decoder framework for energy estimation; the encoder transforms the image into a representation embedded with food energy information in an easier-to-extract format, which the decoder then extracts the energy information from. To implement our method, we compile a high-quality food image dataset verified by registered dietitians containing eating scene images, food-item segmentation masks, and ground truth calorie values. Our method improves upon previous caloric estimation methods by over 10\% and 30 kCal in terms of MAPE and MAE respectively. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Deep Joint Source-Channel Coding for Adaptive Image Transmission over  MIMO Channels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00470  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a vision transformer (ViT)-based deep joint source and channel coding (DeepJSCC) scheme for wireless image transmission over multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) channels, denoted as DeepJSCC-MIMO. We consider DeepJSCC-MIMO for adaptive image transmission in both open-loop and closed-loop MIMO systems. The novel DeepJSCC-MIMO architecture surpasses the classical separation-based benchmarks with robustness to channel estimation errors and showcases remarkable flexibility in adapting to diverse channel conditions and antenna numbers without requiring retraining. Specifically, by harnessing the self-attention mechanism of ViT, DeepJSCC-MIMO intelligently learns feature mapping and power allocation strategies tailored to the unique characteristics of the source image and prevailing channel conditions. Extensive numerical experiments validate the significant improvements in transmission quality achieved by DeepJSCC-MIMO for both open-loop and closed-loop MIMO systems across a wide range of scenarios. Moreover, DeepJSCC-MIMO exhibits robustness to varying channel conditions, channel estimation errors, and different antenna numbers, making it an appealing solution for emerging semantic communication systems. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Learning-based NLOS Detection and Uncertainty Prediction of GNSS  Observations with Transformer-Enhanced LSTM Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00480  
**Abstract:** The global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) play a vital role in transport systems for accurate and consistent vehicle localization. However, GNSS observations can be distorted due to multipath effects and non-line-of-sight (NLOS) receptions in challenging environments such as urban canyons. In such cases, traditional methods to classify and exclude faulty GNSS observations may fail, leading to unreliable state estimation and unsafe system operations. This work proposes a Deep-Learning-based method to detect NLOS receptions and predict GNSS pseudorange errors by analyzing GNSS observations as a spatio-temporal modeling problem. Compared to previous works, we construct a transformer-like attention mechanism to enhance the long short-term memory (LSTM) networks, improving model performance and generalization. For the training and evaluation of the proposed network, we used labeled datasets from the cities of Hong Kong and Aachen. We also introduce a dataset generation process to label the GNSS observations using lidar maps. In experimental studies, we compare the proposed network with a deep-learning-based model and classical machine-learning models. Furthermore, we conduct ablation studies of our network components and integrate the NLOS detection with data out-of-distribution in a state estimator. As a result, our network presents improved precision and recall ratios compared to other models. Additionally, we show that the proposed method avoids trajectory divergence in real-world vehicle localization by classifying and excluding NLOS observations. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Geometry-aware Line Graph Transformer Pre-training for Molecular  Property Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00483  
**Abstract:** Molecular property prediction with deep learning has gained much attention over the past years. Owing to the scarcity of labeled molecules, there has been growing interest in self-supervised learning methods that learn generalizable molecular representations from unlabeled data. Molecules are typically treated as 2D topological graphs in modeling, but it has been discovered that their 3D geometry is of great importance in determining molecular functionalities. In this paper, we propose the Geometry-aware line graph transformer (Galformer) pre-training, a novel self-supervised learning framework that aims to enhance molecular representation learning with 2D and 3D modalities. Specifically, we first design a dual-modality line graph transformer backbone to encode the topological and geometric information of a molecule. The designed backbone incorporates effective structural encodings to capture graph structures from both modalities. Then we devise two complementary pre-training tasks at the inter and intra-modality levels. These tasks provide properly supervised information and extract discriminative 2D and 3D knowledge from unlabeled molecules. Finally, we evaluate Galformer against six state-of-the-art baselines on twelve property prediction benchmarks via downstream fine-tuning. Experimental results show that Galformer consistently outperforms all baselines on both classification and regression tasks, demonstrating its effectiveness. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Catalyst Property Prediction with CatBERTa: Unveiling Feature  Exploration Strategies through Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00563  
**Abstract:** Efficient catalyst screening necessitates predictive models for adsorption energy, a key property of reactivity. However, prevailing methods, notably graph neural networks (GNNs), demand precise atomic coordinates for constructing graph representations, while integrating observable attributes remains challenging. This research introduces CatBERTa, an energy prediction Transformer model using textual inputs. Built on a pretrained Transformer encoder, CatBERTa processes human-interpretable text, incorporating target features. Attention score analysis reveals CatBERTa's focus on tokens related to adsorbates, bulk composition, and their interacting atoms. Moreover, interacting atoms emerge as effective descriptors for adsorption configurations, while factors such as bond length and atomic properties of these atoms offer limited predictive contributions. By predicting adsorption energy from the textual representation of initial structures, CatBERTa achieves a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.75 eV-comparable to vanilla Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). Furthermore, the subtraction of the CatBERTa-predicted energies effectively cancels out their systematic errors by as much as 19.3% for chemically similar systems, surpassing the error reduction observed in GNNs. This outcome highlights its potential to enhance the accuracy of energy difference predictions. This research establishes a fundamental framework for text-based catalyst property prediction, without relying on graph representations, while also unveiling intricate feature-property relationships. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Iterative Multi-granular Image Editing using Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00613  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in text-guided image synthesis has dramatically changed how creative professionals generate artistic and aesthetically pleasing visual assets. To fully support such creative endeavors, the process should possess the ability to: 1) iteratively edit the generations and 2) control the spatial reach of desired changes (global, local or anything in between). We formalize this pragmatic problem setting as Iterative Multi-granular Editing. While there has been substantial progress with diffusion-based models for image synthesis and editing, they are all one shot (i.e., no iterative editing capabilities) and do not naturally yield multi-granular control (i.e., covering the full spectrum of local-to-global edits). To overcome these drawbacks, we propose EMILIE: Iterative Multi-granular Image Editor. EMILIE introduces a novel latent iteration strategy, which re-purposes a pre-trained diffusion model to facilitate iterative editing. This is complemented by a gradient control operation for multi-granular control. We introduce a new benchmark dataset to evaluate our newly proposed setting. We conduct exhaustive quantitatively and qualitatively evaluation against recent state-of-the-art approaches adapted to our task, to being out the mettle of EMILIE. We hope our work would attract attention to this newly identified, pragmatic problem setting. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Diffusion Variational Autoencoder for Tackling Stochasticity in  Multi-Step Regression Stock Price Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00073  
**Abstract:** Multi-step stock price prediction over a long-term horizon is crucial for forecasting its volatility, allowing financial institutions to price and hedge derivatives, and banks to quantify the risk in their trading books. Additionally, most financial regulators also require a liquidity horizon of several days for institutional investors to exit their risky assets, in order to not materially affect market prices. However, the task of multi-step stock price prediction is challenging, given the highly stochastic nature of stock data. Current solutions to tackle this problem are mostly designed for single-step, classification-based predictions, and are limited to low representation expressiveness. The problem also gets progressively harder with the introduction of the target price sequence, which also contains stochastic noise and reduces generalizability at test-time. To tackle these issues, we combine a deep hierarchical variational-autoencoder (VAE) and diffusion probabilistic techniques to do seq2seq stock prediction through a stochastic generative process. The hierarchical VAE allows us to learn the complex and low-level latent variables for stock prediction, while the diffusion probabilistic model trains the predictor to handle stock price stochasticity by progressively adding random noise to the stock data. Our Diffusion-VAE (D-Va) model is shown to outperform state-of-the-art solutions in terms of its prediction accuracy and variance. More importantly, the multi-step outputs can also allow us to form a stock portfolio over the prediction length. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our model outputs in the portfolio investment task through the Sharpe ratio metric and highlight the importance of dealing with different types of prediction uncertainties. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Bayesian estimation and reconstruction of marine surface contaminant  dispersion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.00369  
**Abstract:** Discharge of hazardous substances into the marine environment poses a substantial risk to both public health and the ecosystem. In such incidents, it is imperative to accurately estimate the release strength of the source and reconstruct the spatio-temporal dispersion of the substances based on the collected measurements. In this study, we propose an integrated estimation framework to tackle this challenge, which can be used in conjunction with a sensor network or a mobile sensor for environment monitoring. We employ the fundamental convection-diffusion partial differential equation (PDE) to represent the general dispersion of a physical quantity in a non-uniform flow field. The PDE model is spatially discretised into a linear state-space model using the dynamic transient finite-element method (FEM) so that the characterisation of time-varying dispersion can be cast into the problem of inferring the model states from sensor measurements. We also consider imperfect sensing phenomena, including miss-detection and signal quantisation, which are frequently encountered when using a sensor network. This complicated sensor process introduces nonlinearity into the Bayesian estimation process. A Rao-Blackwellised particle filter (RBPF) is designed to provide an effective solution by exploiting the linear structure of the state-space model, whereas the nonlinearity of the measurement model can be handled by Monte Carlo approximation with particles. The proposed framework is validated using a simulated oil spill incident in the Baltic sea with real ocean flow data. The results show the efficacy of the developed spatio-temporal dispersion model and estimation schemes in the presence of imperfect measurements. Moreover, the parameter selection process is discussed, along with some comparison studies to illustrate the advantages of the proposed algorithm over existing methods. 

