**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Self-Supervised Video Transformers for Isolated Sign Language  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02450  
**Abstract:** This paper presents an in-depth analysis of various self-supervision methods for isolated sign language recognition (ISLR). We consider four recently introduced transformer-based approaches to self-supervised learning from videos, and four pre-training data regimes, and study all the combinations on the WLASL2000 dataset. Our findings reveal that MaskFeat achieves performance superior to pose-based and supervised video models, with a top-1 accuracy of 79.02% on gloss-based WLASL2000. Furthermore, we analyze these models' ability to produce representations of ASL signs using linear probing on diverse phonological features. This study underscores the value of architecture and pre-training task choices in ISLR. Specifically, our results on WLASL2000 highlight the power of masked reconstruction pre-training, and our linear probing results demonstrate the importance of hierarchical vision transformers for sign language representation. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** RSDiff: Remote Sensing Image Generation from Text Using Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02455  
**Abstract:** Satellite imagery generation and super-resolution are pivotal tasks in remote sensing, demanding high-quality, detailed images for accurate analysis and decision-making. In this paper, we propose an innovative and lightweight approach that employs two-stage diffusion models to gradually generate high-resolution Satellite images purely based on text prompts. Our innovative pipeline comprises two interconnected diffusion models: a Low-Resolution Generation Diffusion Model (LR-GDM) that generates low-resolution images from text and a Super-Resolution Diffusion Model (SRDM) conditionally produced. The LR-GDM effectively synthesizes low-resolution by (computing the correlations of the text embedding and the image embedding in a shared latent space), capturing the essential content and layout of the desired scenes. Subsequently, the SRDM takes the generated low-resolution image and its corresponding text prompts and efficiently produces the high-resolution counterparts, infusing fine-grained spatial details and enhancing visual fidelity. Experiments are conducted on the commonly used dataset, Remote Sensing Image Captioning Dataset (RSICD). Our results demonstrate that our approach outperforms existing state-of-the-art (SoTA) models in generating satellite images with realistic geographical features, weather conditions, and land structures while achieving remarkable super-resolution results for increased spatial precision. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Do You Trust ChatGPT? -- Perceived Credibility of Human and AI-Generated  Content  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02524  
**Abstract:** This paper examines how individuals perceive the credibility of content originating from human authors versus content generated by large language models, like the GPT language model family that powers ChatGPT, in different user interface versions. Surprisingly, our results demonstrate that regardless of the user interface presentation, participants tend to attribute similar levels of credibility. While participants also do not report any different perceptions of competence and trustworthiness between human and AI-generated content, they rate AI-generated content as being clearer and more engaging. The findings from this study serve as a call for a more discerning approach to evaluating information sources, encouraging users to exercise caution and critical thinking when engaging with content generated by AI systems. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Diffusion on the Probability Simplex  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02530  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models learn to reverse the progressive noising of a data distribution to create a generative model. However, the desired continuous nature of the noising process can be at odds with discrete data. To deal with this tension between continuous and discrete objects, we propose a method of performing diffusion on the probability simplex. Using the probability simplex naturally creates an interpretation where points correspond to categorical probability distributions. Our method uses the softmax function applied to an Ornstein-Unlenbeck Process, a well-known stochastic differential equation. We find that our methodology also naturally extends to include diffusion on the unit cube which has applications for bounded image generation. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Domain Adaptation for Efficiently Fine-tuning Vision Transformer with  Encrypted Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02556  
**Abstract:** In recent years, deep neural networks (DNNs) trained with transformed data have been applied to various applications such as privacy-preserving learning, access control, and adversarial defenses. However, the use of transformed data decreases the performance of models. Accordingly, in this paper, we propose a novel method for fine-tuning models with transformed images under the use of the vision transformer (ViT). The proposed domain adaptation method does not cause the accuracy degradation of models, and it is carried out on the basis of the embedding structure of ViT. In experiments, we confirmed that the proposed method prevents accuracy degradation even when using encrypted images with the CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 datasets. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Diffusion-based Time Series Data Imputation for Microsoft 365  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02564  
**Abstract:** Reliability is extremely important for large-scale cloud systems like Microsoft 365. Cloud failures such as disk failure, node failure, etc. threaten service reliability, resulting in online service interruptions and economic loss. Existing works focus on predicting cloud failures and proactively taking action before failures happen. However, they suffer from poor data quality like data missing in model training and prediction, which limits the performance. In this paper, we focus on enhancing data quality through data imputation by the proposed Diffusion+, a sample-efficient diffusion model, to impute the missing data efficiently based on the observed data. Our experiments and application practice show that our model contributes to improving the performance of the downstream failure prediction task. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Representation Learning for Sequential Volumetric Design Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02583  
**Abstract:** Volumetric design, also called massing design, is the first and critical step in professional building design which is sequential in nature. As the volumetric design process is complex, the underlying sequential design process encodes valuable information for designers. Many efforts have been made to automatically generate reasonable volumetric designs, but the quality of the generated design solutions varies, and evaluating a design solution requires either a prohibitively comprehensive set of metrics or expensive human expertise. While previous approaches focused on learning only the final design instead of sequential design tasks, we propose to encode the design knowledge from a collection of expert or high-performing design sequences and extract useful representations using transformer-based models. Later we propose to utilize the learned representations for crucial downstream applications such as design preference evaluation and procedural design generation. We develop the preference model by estimating the density of the learned representations whereas we train an autoregressive transformer model for sequential design generation. We demonstrate our ideas by leveraging a novel dataset of thousands of sequential volumetric designs. Our preference model can compare two arbitrarily given design sequences and is almost 90% accurate in evaluation against random design sequences. Our autoregressive model is also capable of autocompleting a volumetric design sequence from a partial design sequence. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Music Source Separation with Band-Split RoPE Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02612  
**Abstract:** Music source separation (MSS) aims to separate a music recording into multiple musically distinct stems, such as vocals, bass, drums, and more. Recently, deep learning approaches such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and recurrent neural networks (RNNs) have been used, but the improvement is still limited. In this paper, we propose a novel frequency-domain approach based on a Band-Split RoPE Transformer (called BS-RoFormer). BS-RoFormer replies on a band-split module to project the input complex spectrogram into subband-level representations, and then arranges a stack of hierarchical Transformers to model the inner-band as well as inter-band sequences for multi-band mask estimation. To facilitate training the model for MSS, we propose to use the Rotary Position Embedding (RoPE). The BS-RoFormer system trained on MUSDB18HQ and 500 extra songs ranked the first place in the MSS track of Sound Demixing Challenge (SDX23). Benchmarking a smaller version of BS-RoFormer on MUSDB18HQ, we achieve state-of-the-art result without extra training data, with 9.80 dB of average SDR. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Utilizing Generative Adversarial Networks for Stable Structure  Generation in Angry Birds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02614  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the suitability of using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to generate stable structures for the physics-based puzzle game Angry Birds. While previous applications of GANs for level generation have been mostly limited to tile-based representations, this paper explores their suitability for creating stable structures made from multiple smaller blocks. This includes a detailed encoding/decoding process for converting between Angry Birds level descriptions and a suitable grid-based representation, as well as utilizing state-of-the-art GAN architectures and training methods to produce new structure designs. Our results show that GANs can be successfully applied to generate a varied range of complex and stable Angry Birds structures. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Compressing Vision Transformers for Low-Resource Visual Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02617  
**Abstract:** Vision transformer (ViT) and its variants have swept through visual learning leaderboards and offer state-of-the-art accuracy in tasks such as image classification, object detection, and semantic segmentation by attending to different parts of the visual input and capturing long-range spatial dependencies. However, these models are large and computation-heavy. For instance, the recently proposed ViT-B model has 86M parameters making it impractical for deployment on resource-constrained devices. As a result, their deployment on mobile and edge scenarios is limited. In our work, we aim to take a step toward bringing vision transformers to the edge by utilizing popular model compression techniques such as distillation, pruning, and quantization. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Malicious Package Detection in NPM and PyPI using a Single Model of  Malicious Behavior Sequence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02637  
**Abstract:** Open-source software (OSS) supply chain enlarges the attack surface, which makes package registries attractive targets for attacks. Recently, package registries NPM and PyPI have been flooded with malicious packages. The effectiveness of existing malicious NPM and PyPI package detection approaches is hindered by two challenges. The first challenge is how to leverage the knowledge of malicious packages from different ecosystems in a unified way such that multi-lingual malicious package detection can be feasible. The second challenge is how to model malicious behavior in a sequential way such that maliciousness can be precisely captured. To address the two challenges, we propose and implement Cerebro to detect malicious packages in NPM and PyPI. We curate a feature set based on a high-level abstraction of malicious behavior to enable multi-lingual knowledge fusing. We organize extracted features into a behavior sequence to model sequential malicious behavior. We fine-tune the BERT model to understand the semantics of malicious behavior. Extensive evaluation has demonstrated the effectiveness of Cerebro over the state-of-the-art as well as the practically acceptable efficiency. Cerebro has successfully detected 306 and 196 new malicious packages in PyPI and NPM, and received 385 thank letters from the official PyPI and NPM teams. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** TFBEST: Dual-Aspect Transformer with Learnable Positional Encoding for  Failure Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02641  
**Abstract:** Hard Disk Drive (HDD) failures in datacenters are costly - from catastrophic data loss to a question of goodwill, stakeholders want to avoid it like the plague. An important tool in proactively monitoring against HDD failure is timely estimation of the Remaining Useful Life (RUL). To this end, the Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology employed within HDDs (S.M.A.R.T.) provide critical logs for long-term maintenance of the security and dependability of these essential data storage devices. Data-driven predictive models in the past have used these S.M.A.R.T. logs and CNN/RNN based architectures heavily. However, they have suffered significantly in providing a confidence interval around the predicted RUL values as well as in processing very long sequences of logs. In addition, some of these approaches, such as those based on LSTMs, are inherently slow to train and have tedious feature engineering overheads. To overcome these challenges, in this work we propose a novel transformer architecture - a Temporal-fusion Bi-encoder Self-attention Transformer (TFBEST) for predicting failures in hard-drives. It is an encoder-decoder based deep learning technique that enhances the context gained from understanding health statistics sequences and predicts a sequence of the number of days remaining before a disk potentially fails. In this paper, we also provide a novel confidence margin statistic that can help manufacturers replace a hard-drive within a time frame. Experiments on Seagate HDD data show that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art RUL prediction methods during testing over the exhaustive 10-year data from Backblaze (2013-present). Although validated on HDD failure prediction, the TFBEST architecture is well-suited for other prognostics applications and may be adapted for allied regression problems. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Efficient Training for Visual Tracking with Deformable Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02676  
**Abstract:** Recent Transformer-based visual tracking models have showcased superior performance. Nevertheless, prior works have been resource-intensive, requiring prolonged GPU training hours and incurring high GFLOPs during inference due to inefficient training methods and convolution-based target heads. This intensive resource use renders them unsuitable for real-world applications. In this paper, we present DETRack, a streamlined end-to-end visual object tracking framework. Our framework utilizes an efficient encoder-decoder structure where the deformable transformer decoder acting as a target head, achieves higher sparsity than traditional convolution heads, resulting in decreased GFLOPs. For training, we introduce a novel one-to-many label assignment and an auxiliary denoising technique, significantly accelerating model's convergence. Comprehensive experiments affirm the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed method. For instance, DETRack achieves 72.9% AO on challenging GOT-10k benchmarks using only 20% of the training epochs required by the baseline, and runs with lower GFLOPs than all the transformer-based trackers. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Diffusion-EDFs: Bi-equivariant Denoising Generative Modeling on SE(3)  for Visual Robotic Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02685  
**Abstract:** Recent studies have verified that equivariant methods can significantly improve the data efficiency, generalizability, and robustness in robot learning. Meanwhile, denoising diffusion-based generative modeling has recently gained significant attention as a promising approach for robotic manipulation learning from demonstrations with stochastic behaviors. In this paper, we present Diffusion-EDFs, a novel approach that incorporates spatial roto-translation equivariance, i.e., SE(3)-equivariance to diffusion generative modeling. By integrating SE(3)-equivariance into our model architectures, we demonstrate that our proposed method exhibits remarkable data efficiency, requiring only 5 to 10 task demonstrations for effective end-to-end training. Furthermore, our approach showcases superior generalizability compared to previous diffusion-based manipulation methods. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** HAE-RAE Bench: Evaluation of Korean Knowledge in Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02706  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) pretrained on massive corpora exhibit remarkable capabilities across a wide range of tasks, however, the attention given to non-English languages has been limited in this field of research. To address this gap and assess the proficiency of language models in the Korean language and culture, we present HAE-RAE Bench, covering 6 tasks including vocabulary, history, and general knowledge. Our evaluation of language models on this benchmark highlights the potential advantages of employing Large Language-Specific Models(LLSMs) over a comprehensive, universal model like GPT-3.5. Remarkably, our study reveals that models approximately 13 times smaller than GPT-3.5 can exhibit similar performance levels in terms of language-specific knowledge retrieval. This observation underscores the importance of homogeneous corpora for training professional-level language-specific models. On the contrary, we also observe a perplexing performance dip in these smaller LMs when they are tasked to generate structured answers. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Offensive Hebrew Corpus and Detection using BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02724  
**Abstract:** Offensive language detection has been well studied in many languages, but it is lagging behind in low-resource languages, such as Hebrew. In this paper, we present a new offensive language corpus in Hebrew. A total of 15,881 tweets were retrieved from Twitter. Each was labeled with one or more of five classes (abusive, hate, violence, pornographic, or none offensive) by Arabic-Hebrew bilingual speakers. The annotation process was challenging as each annotator is expected to be familiar with the Israeli culture, politics, and practices to understand the context of each tweet. We fine-tuned two Hebrew BERT models, HeBERT and AlephBERT, using our proposed dataset and another published dataset. We observed that our data boosts HeBERT performance by 2% when combined with D_OLaH. Fine-tuning AlephBERT on our data and testing on D_OLaH yields 69% accuracy, while fine-tuning on D_OLaH and testing on our data yields 57% accuracy, which may be an indication to the generalizability our data offers. Our dataset and fine-tuned models are available on GitHub and Huggingface. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Large Language Models for Automated Open-domain Scientific Hypotheses  Discovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02726  
**Abstract:** Hypothetical induction is recognized as the main reasoning type when scientists make observations about the world and try to propose hypotheses to explain those observations. Past research on hypothetical induction has a limited setting that (1) the observation annotations of the dataset are not raw web corpus but are manually selected sentences (resulting in a close-domain setting); and (2) the ground truth hypotheses annotations are mostly commonsense knowledge, making the task less challenging. In this work, we propose the first NLP dataset for social science academic hypotheses discovery, consisting of 50 recent papers published in top social science journals. Raw web corpora that are necessary for developing hypotheses in the published papers are also collected in the dataset, with the final goal of creating a system that automatically generates valid, novel, and helpful (to human researchers) hypotheses, given only a pile of raw web corpora. The new dataset can tackle the previous problems because it requires to (1) use raw web corpora as observations; and (2) propose hypotheses even new to humanity. A multi-module framework is developed for the task, as well as three different feedback mechanisms that empirically show performance gain over the base framework. Finally, our framework exhibits high performance in terms of both GPT-4 based evaluation and social science expert evaluation. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** HC3 Plus: A Semantic-Invariant Human ChatGPT Comparison Corpus  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02731  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT has gained significant interest due to its impressive performance, but people are increasingly concerned about its potential risks, particularly around the detection of AI-generated content (AIGC), which is often difficult for untrained humans to identify. Current datasets utilized for detecting ChatGPT-generated text primarily center around question-answering, yet they tend to disregard tasks that possess semantic-invariant properties, such as summarization, translation, and paraphrasing. Our primary studies demonstrate that detecting model-generated text on semantic-invariant tasks is more difficult. To fill this gap, we introduce a more extensive and comprehensive dataset that considers more types of tasks than previous work, including semantic-invariant tasks. In addition, the model after a large number of task instruction fine-tuning shows a strong powerful performance. Owing to its previous success, we further instruct fine-tuning Tk-instruct and built a more powerful detection system. Experimental results show that our proposed detector outperforms the previous state-of-the-art RoBERTa-based detector. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Diffusion Model is Secretly a Training-free Open Vocabulary Semantic  Segmenter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02773  
**Abstract:** Recent research has explored the utilization of pre-trained text-image discriminative models, such as CLIP, to tackle the challenges associated with open-vocabulary semantic segmentation. However, it is worth noting that the alignment process based on contrastive learning employed by these models may unintentionally result in the loss of crucial localization information and object completeness, which are essential for achieving accurate semantic segmentation. More recently, there has been an emerging interest in extending the application of diffusion models beyond text-to-image generation tasks, particularly in the domain of semantic segmentation. These approaches utilize diffusion models either for generating annotated data or for extracting features to facilitate semantic segmentation. This typically involves training segmentation models by generating a considerable amount of synthetic data or incorporating additional mask annotations. To this end, we uncover the potential of generative text-to-image conditional diffusion models as highly efficient open-vocabulary semantic segmenters, and introduce a novel training-free approach named DiffSegmenter. Specifically, by feeding an input image and candidate classes into an off-the-shelf pre-trained conditional latent diffusion model, the cross-attention maps produced by the denoising U-Net are directly used as segmentation scores, which are further refined and completed by the followed self-attention maps. Additionally, we carefully design effective textual prompts and a category filtering mechanism to further enhance the segmentation results. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets show that the proposed DiffSegmenter achieves impressive results for open-vocabulary semantic segmentation. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** CVE-driven Attack Technique Prediction with Semantic Information  Extraction and a Domain-specific Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02785  
**Abstract:** This paper addresses a critical challenge in cybersecurity: the gap between vulnerability information represented by Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) and the resulting cyberattack actions. CVEs provide insights into vulnerabilities, but often lack details on potential threat actions (tactics, techniques, and procedures, or TTPs) within the ATT&CK framework. This gap hinders accurate CVE categorization and proactive countermeasure initiation. The paper introduces the TTPpredictor tool, which uses innovative techniques to analyze CVE descriptions and infer plausible TTP attacks resulting from CVE exploitation. TTPpredictor overcomes challenges posed by limited labeled data and semantic disparities between CVE and TTP descriptions. It initially extracts threat actions from unstructured cyber threat reports using Semantic Role Labeling (SRL) techniques. These actions, along with their contextual attributes, are correlated with MITRE's attack functionality classes. This automated correlation facilitates the creation of labeled data, essential for categorizing novel threat actions into threat functionality classes and TTPs. The paper presents an empirical assessment, demonstrating TTPpredictor's effectiveness with accuracy rates of approximately 98% and F1-scores ranging from 95% to 98% in precise CVE classification to ATT&CK techniques. TTPpredictor outperforms state-of-the-art language model tools like ChatGPT. Overall, this paper offers a robust solution for linking CVEs to potential attack techniques, enhancing cybersecurity practitioners' ability to proactively identify and mitigate threats. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Distributed Least Squares Algorithm for Continuous-time Stochastic  Systems Under Cooperative Excitation Condition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02799  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we study the distributed adaptive estimation problem of continuous-time stochastic dynamic systems over sensor networks where each agent can only communicate with its local neighbors. A distributed least squares (LS) algorithm based on diffusion strategy is proposed such that the sensors can cooperatively estimate the unknown time-invariant parameter vector from continuous-time noisy signals. By using the martingal estimation theory and Ito formula, we provide upper bounds for the estimation error of the proposed distributed LS algorithm, and further obtain the convergence results under a cooperative excitation condition. Compared with the existing results, our results are established without using the boundedness or persistent excitation (PE) conditions of regression signals. We provide simulation examples to show that multiple sensors can cooperatively accomplish the estimation task even if any individual can not. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Promoting Open-domain Dialogue Generation through Learning Pattern  Information between Contexts and Responses  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02823  
**Abstract:** Recently, utilizing deep neural networks to build the opendomain dialogue models has become a hot topic. However, the responses generated by these models suffer from many problems such as responses not being contextualized and tend to generate generic responses that lack information content, damaging the user's experience seriously. Therefore, many studies try introducing more information into the dialogue models to make the generated responses more vivid and informative. Unlike them, this paper improves the quality of generated responses by learning the implicit pattern information between contexts and responses in the training samples. In this paper, we first build an open-domain dialogue model based on the pre-trained language model (i.e., GPT-2). And then, an improved scheduled sampling method is proposed for pre-trained models, by which the responses can be used to guide the response generation in the training phase while avoiding the exposure bias problem. More importantly, we design a response-aware mechanism for mining the implicit pattern information between contexts and responses so that the generated replies are more diverse and approximate to human replies. Finally, we evaluate the proposed model (RAD) on the Persona-Chat and DailyDialog datasets; and the experimental results show that our model outperforms the baselines on most automatic and manual metrics. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** A Cole-Hopf transformation based fourth-order multiple-relaxation-time  lattice Boltzmann model for the coupled Burgers' equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02825  
**Abstract:** In this work, a Cole-Hopf transformation based fourth-order multiple-relaxation-time lattice Boltzmann (MRT-LB) model for d-dimensional coupled Burgers' equations is developed. We first adopt the Cole-Hopf transformation where an intermediate variable \theta is introduced to eliminate the nonlinear convection terms in the Burgers' equations on the velocity u=(u_1,u_2,...,u_d). In this case, a diffusion equation on the variable \theta can be obtained, and particularly, the velocity u in the coupled Burgers' equations is determined by the variable \theta and its gradient term \nabla\theta. Then we develop a general MRT-LB model with the natural moments for the d-dimensional transformed diffusion equation and present the corresponding macroscopic finite-difference scheme. At the diffusive scaling, the fourth-order modified equation of the developed MRT-LB model is derived through the Maxwell iteration method. With the aid of the free parameters in the MRT-LB model, we find that not only the consistent fourth-order modified equation can be obtained, but also the gradient term $\nabla\theta$ can be calculated locally by the non-equilibrium distribution function with a fourth-order accuracy, this indicates that theoretically, the MRT-LB model for $d$-dimensional coupled Burgers' equations can achieve a fourth-order accuracy in space. Finally, some simulations are conducted to test the MRT-LB model, and the numerical results show that the proposed MRT-LB model has a fourth-order convergence rate, which is consistent with our theoretical analysis. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Image-Object-Specific Prompt Learning for Few-Shot Class-Incremental  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02833  
**Abstract:** While many FSCIL studies have been undertaken, achieving satisfactory performance, especially during incremental sessions, has remained challenging. One prominent challenge is that the encoder, trained with an ample base session training set, often underperforms in incremental sessions. In this study, we introduce a novel training framework for FSCIL, capitalizing on the generalizability of the Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) model to unseen classes. We achieve this by formulating image-object-specific (IOS) classifiers for the input images. Here, an IOS classifier refers to one that targets specific attributes (like wings or wheels) of class objects rather than the image's background. To create these IOS classifiers, we encode a bias prompt into the classifiers using our specially designed module, which harnesses key-prompt pairs to pinpoint the IOS features of classes in each session. From an FSCIL standpoint, our framework is structured to retain previous knowledge and swiftly adapt to new sessions without forgetting or overfitting. This considers the updatability of modules in each session and some tricks empirically found for fast convergence. Our approach consistently demonstrates superior performance compared to state-of-the-art methods across the miniImageNet, CIFAR100, and CUB200 datasets. Further, we provide additional experiments to validate our learned model's ability to achieve IOS classifiers. We also conduct ablation studies to analyze the impact of each module within the architecture. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** BigVSAN: Enhancing GAN-based Neural Vocoders with Slicing Adversarial  Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02836  
**Abstract:** Generative adversarial network (GAN)-based vocoders have been intensively studied because they can synthesize high-fidelity audio waveforms faster than real-time. However, it has been reported that most GANs fail to obtain the optimal projection for discriminating between real and fake data in the feature space. In the literature, it has been demonstrated that slicing adversarial network (SAN), an improved GAN training framework that can find the optimal projection, is effective in the image generation task. In this paper, we investigate the effectiveness of SAN in the vocoding task. For this purpose, we propose a scheme to modify least-squares GAN, which most GAN-based vocoders adopt, so that their loss functions satisfy the requirements of SAN. Through our experiments, we demonstrate that SAN can improve the performance of GAN-based vocoders, including BigVGAN, with small modifications. Our code is available at https://github.com/sony/bigvsan. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** DECODE: Data-driven Energy Consumption Prediction leveraging Historical  Data and Environmental Factors in Buildings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02908  
**Abstract:** Energy prediction in buildings plays a crucial role in effective energy management. Precise predictions are essential for achieving optimal energy consumption and distribution within the grid. This paper introduces a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) model designed to forecast building energy consumption using historical energy data, occupancy patterns, and weather conditions. The LSTM model provides accurate short, medium, and long-term energy predictions for residential and commercial buildings compared to existing prediction models. We compare our LSTM model with established prediction methods, including linear regression, decision trees, and random forest. Encouragingly, the proposed LSTM model emerges as the superior performer across all metrics. It demonstrates exceptional prediction accuracy, boasting the highest R2 score of 0.97 and the most favorable mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.007. An additional advantage of our developed model is its capacity to achieve efficient energy consumption forecasts even when trained on a limited dataset. We address concerns about overfitting (variance) and underfitting (bias) through rigorous training and evaluation on real-world data. In summary, our research contributes to energy prediction by offering a robust LSTM model that outperforms alternative methods and operates with remarkable efficiency, generalizability, and reliability. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Persona-aware Generative Model for Code-mixed Language  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02915  
**Abstract:** Code-mixing and script-mixing are prevalent across online social networks and multilingual societies. However, a user's preference toward code-mixing depends on the socioeconomic status, demographics of the user, and the local context, which existing generative models mostly ignore while generating code-mixed texts. In this work, we make a pioneering attempt to develop a persona-aware generative model to generate texts resembling real-life code-mixed texts of individuals. We propose a Persona-aware Generative Model for Code-mixed Generation, PARADOX, a novel Transformer-based encoder-decoder model that encodes an utterance conditioned on a user's persona and generates code-mixed texts without monolingual reference data. We propose an alignment module that re-calibrates the generated sequence to resemble real-life code-mixed texts. PARADOX generates code-mixed texts that are semantically more meaningful and linguistically more valid. To evaluate the personification capabilities of PARADOX, we propose four new metrics -- CM BLEU, CM Rouge-1, CM Rouge-L and CM KS. On average, PARADOX achieves 1.6 points better CM BLEU, 47% better perplexity and 32% better semantic coherence than the non-persona-based counterparts. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** GroupEnc: encoder with group loss for global structure preservation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02917  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in dimensionality reduction have achieved more accurate lower-dimensional embeddings of high-dimensional data. In addition to visualisation purposes, these embeddings can be used for downstream processing, including batch effect normalisation, clustering, community detection or trajectory inference. We use the notion of structure preservation at both local and global levels to create a deep learning model, based on a variational autoencoder (VAE) and the stochastic quartet loss from the SQuadMDS algorithm. Our encoder model, called GroupEnc, uses a 'group loss' function to create embeddings with less global structure distortion than VAEs do, while keeping the model parametric and the architecture flexible. We validate our approach using publicly available biological single-cell transcriptomic datasets, employing RNX curves for evaluation. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Hierarchical-level rain image generative model based on GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02964  
**Abstract:** Autonomous vehicles are exposed to various weather during operation, which is likely to trigger the performance limitations of the perception system, leading to the safety of the intended functionality (SOTIF) problems. To efficiently generate data for testing the performance of visual perception algorithms under various weather conditions, a hierarchical-level rain image generative model, rain conditional CycleGAN (RCCycleGAN), is constructed. RCCycleGAN is based on the generative adversarial network (GAN) and can generate images of light, medium, and heavy rain. Different rain intensities are introduced as labels in conditional GAN (CGAN). Meanwhile, the model structure is optimized and the training strategy is adjusted to alleviate the problem of mode collapse. In addition, natural rain images of different intensities are collected and processed for model training and validation. Compared with the two baseline models, CycleGAN and DerainCycleGAN, the peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) of RCCycleGAN on the test dataset is improved by 2.58 dB and 0.74 dB, and the structural similarity (SSIM) is improved by 18% and 8%, respectively. The ablation experiments are also carried out to validate the effectiveness of the model tuning. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** CR-VAE: Contrastive Regularization on Variational Autoencoders for  Preventing Posterior Collapse  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02968  
**Abstract:** The Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is known to suffer from the phenomenon of \textit{posterior collapse}, where the latent representations generated by the model become independent of the inputs. This leads to degenerated representations of the input, which is attributed to the limitations of the VAE's objective function. In this work, we propose a novel solution to this issue, the Contrastive Regularization for Variational Autoencoders (CR-VAE). The core of our approach is to augment the original VAE with a contrastive objective that maximizes the mutual information between the representations of similar visual inputs. This strategy ensures that the information flow between the input and its latent representation is maximized, effectively avoiding posterior collapse. We evaluate our method on a series of visual datasets and demonstrate, that CR-VAE outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in preventing posterior collapse. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Fast time-stepping discontinuous Galerkin method for the subdiffusion  equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02988  
**Abstract:** The nonlocality of the fractional operator causes numerical difficulties for long time computation of the time-fractional evolution equations. This paper develops a high-order fast time-stepping discontinuous Galerkin finite element method for the time-fractional diffusion equations, which saves storage and computational time. The optimal error estimate $O(N^{-p-1} + h^{m+1} + \varepsilon N^{r\alpha})$ of the current time-stepping discontinuous Galerkin method is rigorous proved, where $N$ denotes the number of time intervals, $p$ is the degree of polynomial approximation on each time subinterval, $h$ is the maximum space step, $r\ge1$, $m$ is the order of finite element space, and $\varepsilon>0$ can be arbitrarily small. Numerical simulations verify the theoretical analysis. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Vote2Cap-DETR++: Decoupling Localization and Describing for End-to-End  3D Dense Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02999  
**Abstract:** 3D dense captioning requires a model to translate its understanding of an input 3D scene into several captions associated with different object regions. Existing methods adopt a sophisticated "detect-then-describe" pipeline, which builds explicit relation modules upon a 3D detector with numerous hand-crafted components. While these methods have achieved initial success, the cascade pipeline tends to accumulate errors because of duplicated and inaccurate box estimations and messy 3D scenes. In this paper, we first propose Vote2Cap-DETR, a simple-yet-effective transformer framework that decouples the decoding process of caption generation and object localization through parallel decoding. Moreover, we argue that object localization and description generation require different levels of scene understanding, which could be challenging for a shared set of queries to capture. To this end, we propose an advanced version, Vote2Cap-DETR++, which decouples the queries into localization and caption queries to capture task-specific features. Additionally, we introduce the iterative spatial refinement strategy to vote queries for faster convergence and better localization performance. We also insert additional spatial information to the caption head for more accurate descriptions. Without bells and whistles, extensive experiments on two commonly used datasets, ScanRefer and Nr3D, demonstrate Vote2Cap-DETR and Vote2Cap-DETR++ surpass conventional "detect-then-describe" methods by a large margin. Codes will be made available at https://github.com/ch3cook-fdu/Vote2Cap-DETR. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** MCM: Multi-condition Motion Synthesis Framework for Multi-scenario  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03031  
**Abstract:** The objective of the multi-condition human motion synthesis task is to incorporate diverse conditional inputs, encompassing various forms like text, music, speech, and more. This endows the task with the capability to adapt across multiple scenarios, ranging from text-to-motion and music-to-dance, among others. While existing research has primarily focused on single conditions, the multi-condition human motion generation remains underexplored. In this paper, we address these challenges by introducing MCM, a novel paradigm for motion synthesis that spans multiple scenarios under diverse conditions. The MCM framework is able to integrate with any DDPM-like diffusion model to accommodate multi-conditional information input while preserving its generative capabilities. Specifically, MCM employs two-branch architecture consisting of a main branch and a control branch. The control branch shares the same structure as the main branch and is initialized with the parameters of the main branch, effectively maintaining the generation ability of the main branch and supporting multi-condition input. We also introduce a Transformer-based diffusion model MWNet (DDPM-like) as our main branch that can capture the spatial complexity and inter-joint correlations in motion sequences through a channel-dimension self-attention module. Quantitative comparisons demonstrate that our approach achieves SoTA results in both text-to-motion and competitive results in music-to-dance tasks, comparable to task-specific methods. Furthermore, the qualitative evaluation shows that MCM not only streamlines the adaptation of methodologies originally designed for text-to-motion tasks to domains like music-to-dance and speech-to-gesture, eliminating the need for extensive network re-configurations but also enables effective multi-condition modal control, realizing "once trained is motion need". 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Hide and Seek (HaS): A Lightweight Framework for Prompt Privacy  Protection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03057  
**Abstract:** Numerous companies have started offering services based on large language models (LLM), such as ChatGPT, which inevitably raises privacy concerns as users' prompts are exposed to the model provider. Previous research on secure reasoning using multi-party computation (MPC) has proven to be impractical for LLM applications due to its time-consuming and communication-intensive nature. While lightweight anonymization techniques can protect private information in prompts through substitution or masking, they fail to recover sensitive data replaced in the LLM-generated results. In this paper, we expand the application scenarios of anonymization techniques by training a small local model to de-anonymize the LLM's returned results with minimal computational overhead. We introduce the HaS framework, where "H(ide)" and "S(eek)" represent its two core processes: hiding private entities for anonymization and seeking private entities for de-anonymization, respectively. To quantitatively assess HaS's privacy protection performance, we propose both black-box and white-box adversarial models. Furthermore, we conduct experiments to evaluate HaS's usability in translation and classification tasks. The experimental findings demonstrate that the HaS framework achieves an optimal balance between privacy protection and utility. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Prompt-based All-in-One Image Restoration using CNNs and Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03063  
**Abstract:** Image restoration aims to recover the high-quality images from their degraded observations. Since most existing methods have been dedicated into single degradation removal, they may not yield optimal results on other types of degradations, which do not satisfy the applications in real world scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel data ingredient-oriented approach that leverages prompt-based learning to enable a single model to efficiently tackle multiple image degradation tasks. Specifically, we utilize a encoder to capture features and introduce prompts with degradation-specific information to guide the decoder in adaptively recovering images affected by various degradations. In order to model the local invariant properties and non-local information for high-quality image restoration, we combined CNNs operations and Transformers. Simultaneously, we made several key designs in the Transformer blocks (multi-head rearranged attention with prompts and simple-gate feed-forward network) to reduce computational requirements and selectively determines what information should be persevered to facilitate efficient recovery of potentially sharp images. Furthermore, we incorporate a feature fusion mechanism further explores the multi-scale information to improve the aggregated features. The resulting tightly interlinked hierarchy architecture, named as CAPTNet, despite being designed to handle different types of degradations, extensive experiments demonstrate that our method performs competitively to the task-specific algorithms. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Character Queries: A Transformer-based Approach to On-Line Handwritten  Character Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03072  
**Abstract:** On-line handwritten character segmentation is often associated with handwriting recognition and even though recognition models include mechanisms to locate relevant positions during the recognition process, it is typically insufficient to produce a precise segmentation. Decoupling the segmentation from the recognition unlocks the potential to further utilize the result of the recognition. We specifically focus on the scenario where the transcription is known beforehand, in which case the character segmentation becomes an assignment problem between sampling points of the stylus trajectory and characters in the text. Inspired by the $k$-means clustering algorithm, we view it from the perspective of cluster assignment and present a Transformer-based architecture where each cluster is formed based on a learned character query in the Transformer decoder block. In order to assess the quality of our approach, we create character segmentation ground truths for two popular on-line handwriting datasets, IAM-OnDB and HANDS-VNOnDB, and evaluate multiple methods on them, demonstrating that our approach achieves the overall best results. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Knowledge Solver: Teaching LLMs to Search for Domain Knowledge from  Knowledge Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03118  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, are versatile and can solve different tasks due to their emergent ability and generalizability. However, LLMs sometimes lack domain-specific knowledge to perform tasks, which would also cause hallucination during inference. In some previous works, additional modules like graph neural networks (GNNs) are trained on retrieved knowledge from external knowledge bases, aiming to mitigate the problem of lacking domain-specific knowledge. However, incorporating additional modules: 1) would need retraining additional modules when encountering novel domains; 2) would become a bottleneck since LLMs' strong abilities are not fully utilized for retrieval. In this paper, we propose a paradigm, termed Knowledge Solver (KSL), to teach LLMs to search for essential knowledge from external knowledge bases by harnessing their own strong generalizability. Specifically, we design a simple yet effective prompt to transform retrieval into a multi-hop decision sequence, which empowers LLMs with searching knowledge ability in zero-shot manner. Additionally, KSL is able to provide complete retrieval paths and therefore increase explainability of LLMs' reasoning processes. We conduct experiments on three datasets: CommonsenseQA, OpenbookQA, and MedQA-USMLE, and found that our approach improves LLM baseline performance by a relatively large margin. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** ResFields: Residual Neural Fields for Spatiotemporal Signals  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03160  
**Abstract:** Neural fields, a category of neural networks trained to represent high-frequency signals, have gained significant attention in recent years due to their impressive performance in modeling complex 3D data, especially large neural signed distance (SDFs) or radiance fields (NeRFs) via a single multi-layer perceptron (MLP). However, despite the power and simplicity of representing signals with an MLP, these methods still face challenges when modeling large and complex temporal signals due to the limited capacity of MLPs. In this paper, we propose an effective approach to address this limitation by incorporating temporal residual layers into neural fields, dubbed ResFields, a novel class of networks specifically designed to effectively represent complex temporal signals. We conduct a comprehensive analysis of the properties of ResFields and propose a matrix factorization technique to reduce the number of trainable parameters and enhance generalization capabilities. Importantly, our formulation seamlessly integrates with existing techniques and consistently improves results across various challenging tasks: 2D video approximation, dynamic shape modeling via temporal SDFs, and dynamic NeRF reconstruction. Lastly, we demonstrate the practical utility of ResFields by showcasing its effectiveness in capturing dynamic 3D scenes from sparse sensory inputs of a lightweight capture system. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** J-Guard: Journalism Guided Adversarially Robust Detection of  AI-generated News  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03164  
**Abstract:** The rapid proliferation of AI-generated text online is profoundly reshaping the information landscape. Among various types of AI-generated text, AI-generated news presents a significant threat as it can be a prominent source of misinformation online. While several recent efforts have focused on detecting AI-generated text in general, these methods require enhanced reliability, given concerns about their vulnerability to simple adversarial attacks. Furthermore, due to the eccentricities of news writing, applying these detection methods for AI-generated news can produce false positives, potentially damaging the reputation of news organizations. To address these challenges, we leverage the expertise of an interdisciplinary team to develop a framework, J-Guard, capable of steering existing supervised AI text detectors for detecting AI-generated news while boosting adversarial robustness. By incorporating stylistic cues inspired by the unique journalistic attributes, J-Guard effectively distinguishes between real-world journalism and AI-generated news articles. Our experiments on news articles generated by a vast array of AI models, including ChatGPT (GPT3.5), demonstrate the effectiveness of J-Guard in enhancing detection capabilities while maintaining an average performance decrease of as low as 7% when faced with adversarial attacks. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** SLiMe: Segment Like Me  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03179  
**Abstract:** Significant strides have been made using large vision-language models, like Stable Diffusion (SD), for a variety of downstream tasks, including image editing, image correspondence, and 3D shape generation. Inspired by these advancements, we explore leveraging these extensive vision-language models for segmenting images at any desired granularity using as few as one annotated sample by proposing SLiMe. SLiMe frames this problem as an optimization task. Specifically, given a single training image and its segmentation mask, we first extract attention maps, including our novel "weighted accumulated self-attention map" from the SD prior. Then, using the extracted attention maps, the text embeddings of Stable Diffusion are optimized such that, each of them, learn about a single segmented region from the training image. These learned embeddings then highlight the segmented region in the attention maps, which in turn can then be used to derive the segmentation map. This enables SLiMe to segment any real-world image during inference with the granularity of the segmented region in the training image, using just one example. Moreover, leveraging additional training data when available, i.e. few-shot, improves the performance of SLiMe. We carried out a knowledge-rich set of experiments examining various design factors and showed that SLiMe outperforms other existing one-shot and few-shot segmentation methods. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Bayes' Rays: Uncertainty Quantification for Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03185  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have shown promise in applications like view synthesis and depth estimation, but learning from multiview images faces inherent uncertainties. Current methods to quantify them are either heuristic or computationally demanding. We introduce BayesRays, a post-hoc framework to evaluate uncertainty in any pre-trained NeRF without modifying the training process. Our method establishes a volumetric uncertainty field using spatial perturbations and a Bayesian Laplace approximation. We derive our algorithm statistically and show its superior performance in key metrics and applications. Additional results available at: https://bayesrays.github.io. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** My Art My Choice: Adversarial Protection Against Unruly AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03198  
**Abstract:** Generative AI is on the rise, enabling everyone to produce realistic content via publicly available interfaces. Especially for guided image generation, diffusion models are changing the creator economy by producing high quality low cost content. In parallel, artists are rising against unruly AI, since their artwork are leveraged, distributed, and dissimulated by large generative models. Our approach, My Art My Choice (MAMC), aims to empower content owners by protecting their copyrighted materials from being utilized by diffusion models in an adversarial fashion. MAMC learns to generate adversarially perturbed "protected" versions of images which can in turn "break" diffusion models. The perturbation amount is decided by the artist to balance distortion vs. protection of the content. MAMC is designed with a simple UNet-based generator, attacking black box diffusion models, combining several losses to create adversarial twins of the original artwork. We experiment on three datasets for various image-to-image tasks, with different user control values. Both protected image and diffusion output results are evaluated in visual, noise, structure, pixel, and generative spaces to validate our claims. We believe that MAMC is a crucial step for preserving ownership information for AI generated content in a flawless, based-on-need, and human-centric way. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Evaluation Kidney Layer Segmentation on Whole Slide Imaging using  Convolutional Neural Networks and Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02563  
**Abstract:** The segmentation of kidney layer structures, including cortex, outer stripe, inner stripe, and inner medulla within human kidney whole slide images (WSI) plays an essential role in automated image analysis in renal pathology. However, the current manual segmentation process proves labor-intensive and infeasible for handling the extensive digital pathology images encountered at a large scale. In response, the realm of digital renal pathology has seen the emergence of deep learning-based methodologies. However, very few, if any, deep learning based approaches have been applied to kidney layer structure segmentation. Addressing this gap, this paper assesses the feasibility of performing deep learning based approaches on kidney layer structure segmetnation. This study employs the representative convolutional neural network (CNN) and Transformer segmentation approaches, including Swin-Unet, Medical-Transformer, TransUNet, U-Net, PSPNet, and DeepLabv3+. We quantitatively evaluated six prevalent deep learning models on renal cortex layer segmentation using mice kidney WSIs. The empirical results stemming from our approach exhibit compelling advancements, as evidenced by a decent Mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) index. The results demonstrate that Transformer models generally outperform CNN-based models. By enabling a quantitative evaluation of renal cortical structures, deep learning approaches are promising to empower these medical professionals to make more informed kidney layer segmentation. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Generative AI-aided Joint Training-free Secure Semantic Communications  via Multi-modal Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02616  
**Abstract:** Semantic communication (SemCom) holds promise for reducing network resource consumption while achieving the communications goal. However, the computational overheads in jointly training semantic encoders and decoders-and the subsequent deployment in network devices-are overlooked. Recent advances in Generative artificial intelligence (GAI) offer a potential solution. The robust learning abilities of GAI models indicate that semantic decoders can reconstruct source messages using a limited amount of semantic information, e.g., prompts, without joint training with the semantic encoder. A notable challenge, however, is the instability introduced by GAI's diverse generation ability. This instability, evident in outputs like text-generated images, limits the direct application of GAI in scenarios demanding accurate message recovery, such as face image transmission. To solve the above problems, this paper proposes a GAI-aided SemCom system with multi-model prompts for accurate content decoding. Moreover, in response to security concerns, we introduce the application of covert communications aided by a friendly jammer. The system jointly optimizes the diffusion step, jamming, and transmitting power with the aid of the generative diffusion models, enabling successful and secure transmission of the source messages. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Stylebook: Content-Dependent Speaking Style Modeling for Any-to-Any  Voice Conversion using Only Speech Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02730  
**Abstract:** While many recent any-to-any voice conversion models succeed in transferring some target speech's style information to the converted speech, they still lack the ability to faithfully reproduce the speaking style of the target speaker. In this work, we propose a novel method to extract rich style information from target utterances and to efficiently transfer it to source speech content without requiring text transcriptions or speaker labeling. Our proposed approach introduces an attention mechanism utilizing a self-supervised learning (SSL) model to collect the speaking styles of a target speaker each corresponding to the different phonetic content. The styles are represented with a set of embeddings called stylebook. In the next step, the stylebook is attended with the source speech's phonetic content to determine the final target style for each source content. Finally, content information extracted from the source speech and content-dependent target style embeddings are fed into a diffusion-based decoder to generate the converted speech mel-spectrogram. Experiment results show that our proposed method combined with a diffusion-based generative model can achieve better speaker similarity in any-to-any voice conversion tasks when compared to baseline models, while the increase in computational complexity with longer utterances is suppressed. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Improving diagnosis and prognosis of lung cancer using vision  transformers: A scoping review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.02783  
**Abstract:** Vision transformer-based methods are advancing the field of medical artificial intelligence and cancer imaging, including lung cancer applications. Recently, many researchers have developed vision transformer-based AI methods for lung cancer diagnosis and prognosis. This scoping review aims to identify the recent developments on vision transformer-based AI methods for lung cancer imaging applications. It provides key insights into how vision transformers complemented the performance of AI and deep learning methods for lung cancer. Furthermore, the review also identifies the datasets that contributed to advancing the field. Of the 314 retrieved studies, this review included 34 studies published from 2020 to 2022. The most commonly addressed task in these studies was the classification of lung cancer types, such as lung squamous cell carcinoma versus lung adenocarcinoma, and identifying benign versus malignant pulmonary nodules. Other applications included survival prediction of lung cancer patients and segmentation of lungs. The studies lacked clear strategies for clinical transformation. SWIN transformer was a popular choice of the researchers; however, many other architectures were also reported where vision transformer was combined with convolutional neural networks or UNet model. It can be concluded that vision transformer-based models are increasingly in popularity for developing AI methods for lung cancer applications. However, their computational complexity and clinical relevance are important factors to be considered for future research work. This review provides valuable insights for researchers in the field of AI and healthcare to advance the state-of-the-art in lung cancer diagnosis and prognosis. We provide an interactive dashboard on lung-cancer.onrender.com/. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** GPT-InvestAR: Enhancing Stock Investment Strategies through Annual  Report Analysis with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03079  
**Abstract:** Annual Reports of publicly listed companies contain vital information about their financial health which can help assess the potential impact on Stock price of the firm. These reports are comprehensive in nature, going up to, and sometimes exceeding, 100 pages. Analysing these reports is cumbersome even for a single firm, let alone the whole universe of firms that exist. Over the years, financial experts have become proficient in extracting valuable information from these documents relatively quickly. However, this requires years of practice and experience. This paper aims to simplify the process of assessing Annual Reports of all the firms by leveraging the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). The insights generated by the LLM are compiled in a Quant styled dataset and augmented by historical stock price data. A Machine Learning model is then trained with LLM outputs as features. The walkforward test results show promising outperformance wrt S&P500 returns. This paper intends to provide a framework for future work in this direction. To facilitate this, the code has been released as open source. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Unreflected Acceptance -- Investigating the Negative Consequences of  ChatGPT-Assisted Problem Solving in Physics Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03087  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have recently gained popularity. However, the impact of their general availability through ChatGPT on sensitive areas of everyday life, such as education, remains unclear. Nevertheless, the societal impact on established educational methods is already being experienced by both students and educators. Our work focuses on higher physics education and examines problem solving strategies. In a study, students with a background in physics were assigned to solve physics exercises, with one group having access to an internet search engine (N=12) and the other group being allowed to use ChatGPT (N=27). We evaluated their performance, strategies, and interaction with the provided tools. Our results showed that nearly half of the solutions provided with the support of ChatGPT were mistakenly assumed to be correct by the students, indicating that they overly trusted ChatGPT even in their field of expertise. Likewise, in 42% of cases, students used copy & paste to query ChatGPT -- an approach only used in 4% of search engine queries -- highlighting the stark differences in interaction behavior between the groups and indicating limited reflection when using ChatGPT. In our work, we demonstrated a need to (1) guide students on how to interact with LLMs and (2) create awareness of potential shortcomings for users. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** PeptideBERT: A Language Model based on Transformers for Peptide Property  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03099  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in Language Models have enabled the protein modeling community with a powerful tool since protein sequences can be represented as text. Specifically, by taking advantage of Transformers, sequence-to-property prediction will be amenable without the need for explicit structural data. In this work, inspired by recent progress in Large Language Models (LLMs), we introduce PeptideBERT, a protein language model for predicting three key properties of peptides (hemolysis, solubility, and non-fouling). The PeptideBert utilizes the ProtBERT pretrained transformer model with 12 attention heads and 12 hidden layers. We then finetuned the pretrained model for the three downstream tasks. Our model has achieved state of the art (SOTA) for predicting Hemolysis, which is a task for determining peptide's potential to induce red blood cell lysis. Our PeptideBert non-fouling model also achieved remarkable accuracy in predicting peptide's capacity to resist non-specific interactions. This model, trained predominantly on shorter sequences, benefits from the dataset where negative examples are largely associated with insoluble peptides. Codes, models, and data used in this study are freely available at: https://github.com/ChakradharG/PeptideBERT 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** 3D Transformer based on deformable patch location for differential  diagnosis between Alzheimer's disease and Frontotemporal dementia  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03183  
**Abstract:** Alzheimer's disease and Frontotemporal dementia are common types of neurodegenerative disorders that present overlapping clinical symptoms, making their differential diagnosis very challenging. Numerous efforts have been done for the diagnosis of each disease but the problem of multi-class differential diagnosis has not been actively explored. In recent years, transformer-based models have demonstrated remarkable success in various computer vision tasks. However, their use in disease diagnostic is uncommon due to the limited amount of 3D medical data given the large size of such models. In this paper, we present a novel 3D transformer-based architecture using a deformable patch location module to improve the differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and Frontotemporal dementia. Moreover, to overcome the problem of data scarcity, we propose an efficient combination of various data augmentation techniques, adapted for training transformer-based models on 3D structural magnetic resonance imaging data. Finally, we propose to combine our transformer-based model with a traditional machine learning model using brain structure volumes to better exploit the available data. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, showing competitive results compared to state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, the deformable patch locations can be visualized, revealing the most relevant brain regions used to establish the diagnosis of each disease. 

