**ID:** 1  
**Title:** GPT Can Solve Mathematical Problems Without a Calculator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03241  
**Abstract:** Previous studies have typically assumed that large language models are unable to accurately perform arithmetic operations, particularly multiplication of >8 digits, and operations involving decimals and fractions, without the use of calculator tools. This paper aims to challenge this misconception. With sufficient training data, a 2 billion-parameter language model can accurately perform multi-digit arithmetic operations with almost 100% accuracy without data leakage, significantly surpassing GPT-4 (whose multi-digit multiplication accuracy is only 4.3%). We also demonstrate that our MathGLM, fine-tuned from GLM-10B on a dataset with additional multi-step arithmetic operations and math problems described in text, achieves similar performance to GPT-4 on a 5,000-samples Chinese math problem test set. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** SADIR: Shape-Aware Diffusion Models for 3D Image Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03335  
**Abstract:** 3D image reconstruction from a limited number of 2D images has been a long-standing challenge in computer vision and image analysis. While deep learning-based approaches have achieved impressive performance in this area, existing deep networks often fail to effectively utilize the shape structures of objects presented in images. As a result, the topology of reconstructed objects may not be well preserved, leading to the presence of artifacts such as discontinuities, holes, or mismatched connections between different parts. In this paper, we propose a shape-aware network based on diffusion models for 3D image reconstruction, named SADIR, to address these issues. In contrast to previous methods that primarily rely on spatial correlations of image intensities for 3D reconstruction, our model leverages shape priors learned from the training data to guide the reconstruction process. To achieve this, we develop a joint learning network that simultaneously learns a mean shape under deformation models. Each reconstructed image is then considered as a deformed variant of the mean shape. We validate our model, SADIR, on both brain and cardiac magnetic resonance images (MRIs). Experimental results show that our method outperforms the baselines with lower reconstruction error and better preservation of the shape structure of objects within the images. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Parameter Efficient Audio Captioning With Faithful Guidance Using  Audio-text Shared Latent Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03340  
**Abstract:** There has been significant research on developing pretrained transformer architectures for multimodal-to-text generation tasks. Albeit performance improvements, such models are frequently overparameterized, hence suffer from hallucination and large memory footprint making them challenging to deploy on edge devices. In this paper, we address both these issues for the application of automated audio captioning. First, we propose a data augmentation technique for generating hallucinated audio captions and show that similarity based on an audio-text shared latent space is suitable for detecting hallucination. Then, we propose a parameter efficient inference time faithful decoding algorithm that enables smaller audio captioning models with performance equivalent to larger models trained with more data. During the beam decoding step, the smaller model utilizes an audio-text shared latent representation to semantically align the generated text with corresponding input audio. Faithful guidance is introduced into the beam probability by incorporating the cosine similarity between latent representation projections of greedy rolled out intermediate beams and audio clip. We show the efficacy of our algorithm on benchmark datasets and evaluate the proposed scheme against baselines using conventional audio captioning and semantic similarity metrics while illustrating tradeoffs between performance and complexity. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Relay Diffusion: Unifying diffusion process across resolutions for image  synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03350  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models achieved great success in image synthesis, but still face challenges in high-resolution generation. Through the lens of discrete cosine transformation, we find the main reason is that \emph{the same noise level on a higher resolution results in a higher Signal-to-Noise Ratio in the frequency domain}. In this work, we present Relay Diffusion Model (RDM), which transfers a low-resolution image or noise into an equivalent high-resolution one for diffusion model via blurring diffusion and block noise. Therefore, the diffusion process can continue seamlessly in any new resolution or model without restarting from pure noise or low-resolution conditioning. RDM achieves state-of-the-art FID on CelebA-HQ and sFID on ImageNet 256$\times$256, surpassing previous works such as ADM, LDM and DiT by a large margin. All the codes and checkpoints are open-sourced at \url{https://github.com/THUDM/RelayDiffusion}. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Highly Controllable Diffusion-based Any-to-Any Voice Conversion Model  with Frame-level Prosody Feature  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03364  
**Abstract:** We propose a highly controllable voice manipulation system that can perform any-to-any voice conversion (VC) and prosody modulation simultaneously. State-of-the-art VC systems can transfer sentence-level characteristics such as speaker, emotion, and speaking style. However, manipulating the frame-level prosody, such as pitch, energy and speaking rate, still remains challenging. Our proposed model utilizes a frame-level prosody feature to effectively transfer such properties. Specifically, pitch and energy trajectories are integrated in a prosody conditioning module and then fed alongside speaker and contents embeddings to a diffusion-based decoder generating a converted speech mel-spectrogram. To adjust the speaking rate, our system includes a self-supervised model based post-processing step which allows improved controllability. The proposed model showed comparable speech quality and improved intelligibility compared to a SOTA approach. It can cover a varying range of fundamental frequency (F0), energy and speed modulation while maintaining converted speech quality. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Self-Supervised Masked Digital Elevation Models Encoding for  Low-Resource Downstream Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03367  
**Abstract:** The lack of quality labeled data is one of the main bottlenecks for training Deep Learning models. As the task increases in complexity, there is a higher penalty for overfitting and unstable learning. The typical paradigm employed today is Self-Supervised learning, where the model attempts to learn from a large corpus of unstructured and unlabeled data and then transfer that knowledge to the required task. Some notable examples of self-supervision in other modalities are BERT for Large Language Models, Wav2Vec for Speech Recognition, and the Masked AutoEncoder for Vision, which all utilize Transformers to solve a masked prediction task. GeoAI is uniquely poised to take advantage of the self-supervised methodology due to the decades of data collected, little of which is precisely and dependably annotated. Our goal is to extract building and road segmentations from Digital Elevation Models (DEM) that provide a detailed topography of the earths surface. The proposed architecture is the Masked Autoencoder pre-trained on ImageNet (with the limitation that there is a large domain discrepancy between ImageNet and DEM) with an UperNet Head for decoding segmentations. We tested this model with 450 and 50 training images only, utilizing roughly 5% and 0.5% of the original data respectively. On the building segmentation task, this model obtains an 82.1% Intersection over Union (IoU) with 450 Images and 69.1% IoU with only 50 images. On the more challenging road detection task the model obtains an 82.7% IoU with 450 images and 73.2% IoU with only 50 images. Any hand-labeled dataset made today about the earths surface will be immediately obsolete due to the constantly changing nature of the landscape. This motivates the clear necessity for data-efficient learners that can be used for a wide variety of downstream tasks. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Improving Open Information Extraction with Large Language Models: A  Study on Demonstration Uncertainty  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03433  
**Abstract:** Open Information Extraction (OIE) task aims at extracting structured facts from unstructured text, typically in the form of (subject, relation, object) triples. Despite the potential of large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT as a general task solver, they lag behind state-of-the-art (supervised) methods in OIE tasks due to two key issues. First, LLMs struggle to distinguish irrelevant context from relevant relations and generate structured output due to the restrictions on fine-tuning the model. Second, LLMs generates responses autoregressively based on probability, which makes the predicted relations lack confidence. In this paper, we assess the capabilities of LLMs in improving the OIE task. Particularly, we propose various in-context learning strategies to enhance LLM's instruction-following ability and a demonstration uncertainty quantification module to enhance the confidence of the generated relations. Our experiments on three OIE benchmark datasets show that our approach holds its own against established supervised methods, both quantitatively and qualitatively. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Underwater Image Enhancement by Transformer-based Diffusion Model with  Non-uniform Sampling for Skip Strategy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03445  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present an approach to image enhancement with diffusion model in underwater scenes. Our method adapts conditional denoising diffusion probabilistic models to generate the corresponding enhanced images by using the underwater images and the Gaussian noise as the inputs. Additionally, in order to improve the efficiency of the reverse process in the diffusion model, we adopt two different ways. We firstly propose a lightweight transformer-based denoising network, which can effectively promote the time of network forward per iteration. On the other hand, we introduce a skip sampling strategy to reduce the number of iterations. Besides, based on the skip sampling strategy, we propose two different non-uniform sampling methods for the sequence of the time step, namely piecewise sampling and searching with the evolutionary algorithm. Both of them are effective and can further improve performance by using the same steps against the previous uniform sampling. In the end, we conduct a relative evaluation of the widely used underwater enhancement datasets between the recent state-of-the-art methods and the proposed approach. The experimental results prove that our approach can achieve both competitive performance and high efficiency. Our code is available at \href{mailto:https://github.com/piggy2009/DM_underwater}{\color{blue}{https://github.com/piggy2009/DM\_underwater}}. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** SyncDreamer: Generating Multiview-consistent Images from a Single-view  Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03453  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a novel diffusion model called that generates multiview-consistent images from a single-view image. Using pretrained large-scale 2D diffusion models, recent work Zero123 demonstrates the ability to generate plausible novel views from a single-view image of an object. However, maintaining consistency in geometry and colors for the generated images remains a challenge. To address this issue, we propose a synchronized multiview diffusion model that models the joint probability distribution of multiview images, enabling the generation of multiview-consistent images in a single reverse process. SyncDreamer synchronizes the intermediate states of all the generated images at every step of the reverse process through a 3D-aware feature attention mechanism that correlates the corresponding features across different views. Experiments show that SyncDreamer generates images with high consistency across different views, thus making it well-suited for various 3D generation tasks such as novel-view-synthesis, text-to-3D, and image-to-3D. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** InteractionNet: Joint Planning and Prediction for Autonomous Driving  with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03475  
**Abstract:** Planning and prediction are two important modules of autonomous driving and have experienced tremendous advancement recently. Nevertheless, most existing methods regard planning and prediction as independent and ignore the correlation between them, leading to the lack of consideration for interaction and dynamic changes of traffic scenarios. To address this challenge, we propose InteractionNet, which leverages transformer to share global contextual reasoning among all traffic participants to capture interaction and interconnect planning and prediction to achieve joint. Besides, InteractionNet deploys another transformer to help the model pay extra attention to the perceived region containing critical or unseen vehicles. InteractionNet outperforms other baselines in several benchmarks, especially in terms of safety, which benefits from the joint consideration of planning and forecasting. The code will be available at https://github.com/fujiawei0724/InteractionNet. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Reuse and Diffuse: Iterative Denoising for Text-to-Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03549  
**Abstract:** Inspired by the remarkable success of Latent Diffusion Models (LDMs) for image synthesis, we study LDM for text-to-video generation, which is a formidable challenge due to the computational and memory constraints during both model training and inference. A single LDM is usually only capable of generating a very limited number of video frames. Some existing works focus on separate prediction models for generating more video frames, which suffer from additional training cost and frame-level jittering, however. In this paper, we propose a framework called "Reuse and Diffuse" dubbed $\textit{VidRD}$ to produce more frames following the frames already generated by an LDM. Conditioned on an initial video clip with a small number of frames, additional frames are iteratively generated by reusing the original latent features and following the previous diffusion process. Besides, for the autoencoder used for translation between pixel space and latent space, we inject temporal layers into its decoder and fine-tune these layers for higher temporal consistency. We also propose a set of strategies for composing video-text data that involve diverse content from multiple existing datasets including video datasets for action recognition and image-text datasets. Extensive experiments show that our method achieves good results in both quantitative and qualitative evaluations. Our project page is available $\href{https://anonymous0x233.github.io/ReuseAndDiffuse/}{here}$. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Text2Control3D: Controllable 3D Avatar Generation in Neural Radiance  Fields using Geometry-Guided Text-to-Image Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03550  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in diffusion models such as ControlNet have enabled geometrically controllable, high-fidelity text-to-image generation. However, none of them addresses the question of adding such controllability to text-to-3D generation. In response, we propose Text2Control3D, a controllable text-to-3D avatar generation method whose facial expression is controllable given a monocular video casually captured with hand-held camera. Our main strategy is to construct the 3D avatar in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) optimized with a set of controlled viewpoint-aware images that we generate from ControlNet, whose condition input is the depth map extracted from the input video. When generating the viewpoint-aware images, we utilize cross-reference attention to inject well-controlled, referential facial expression and appearance via cross attention. We also conduct low-pass filtering of Gaussian latent of the diffusion model in order to ameliorate the viewpoint-agnostic texture problem we observed from our empirical analysis, where the viewpoint-aware images contain identical textures on identical pixel positions that are incomprehensible in 3D. Finally, to train NeRF with the images that are viewpoint-aware yet are not strictly consistent in geometry, our approach considers per-image geometric variation as a view of deformation from a shared 3D canonical space. Consequently, we construct the 3D avatar in a canonical space of deformable NeRF by learning a set of per-image deformation via deformation field table. We demonstrate the empirical results and discuss the effectiveness of our method. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Region Generation and Assessment Network for Occluded Person  Re-Identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03558  
**Abstract:** Person Re-identification (ReID) plays a more and more crucial role in recent years with a wide range of applications. Existing ReID methods are suffering from the challenges of misalignment and occlusions, which degrade the performance dramatically. Most methods tackle such challenges by utilizing external tools to locate body parts or exploiting matching strategies. Nevertheless, the inevitable domain gap between the datasets utilized for external tools and the ReID datasets and the complicated matching process make these methods unreliable and sensitive to noises. In this paper, we propose a Region Generation and Assessment Network (RGANet) to effectively and efficiently detect the human body regions and highlight the important regions. In the proposed RGANet, we first devise a Region Generation Module (RGM) which utilizes the pre-trained CLIP to locate the human body regions using semantic prototypes extracted from text descriptions. Learnable prompt is designed to eliminate domain gap between CLIP datasets and ReID datasets. Then, to measure the importance of each generated region, we introduce a Region Assessment Module (RAM) that assigns confidence scores to different regions and reduces the negative impact of the occlusion regions by lower scores. The RAM consists of a discrimination-aware indicator and an invariance-aware indicator, where the former indicates the capability to distinguish from different identities and the latter represents consistency among the images of the same class of human body regions. Extensive experimental results for six widely-used benchmarks including three tasks (occluded, partial, and holistic) demonstrate the superiority of RGANet against state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Evaluating the Efficacy of Supervised Learning vs Large Language Models  for Identifying Cognitive Distortions and Suicidal Risks in Chinese Social  Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03564  
**Abstract:** Large language models, particularly those akin to the rapidly progressing GPT series, are gaining traction for their expansive influence. While there is keen interest in their applicability within medical domains such as psychology, tangible explorations on real-world data remain scant. Concurrently, users on social media platforms are increasingly vocalizing personal sentiments; under specific thematic umbrellas, these sentiments often manifest as negative emotions, sometimes escalating to suicidal inclinations. Timely discernment of such cognitive distortions and suicidal risks is crucial to effectively intervene and potentially avert dire circumstances. Our study ventured into this realm by experimenting on two pivotal tasks: suicidal risk and cognitive distortion identification on Chinese social media platforms. Using supervised learning as a baseline, we examined and contrasted the efficacy of large language models via three distinct strategies: zero-shot, few-shot, and fine-tuning. Our findings revealed a discernible performance gap between the large language models and traditional supervised learning approaches, primarily attributed to the models' inability to fully grasp subtle categories. Notably, while GPT-4 outperforms its counterparts in multiple scenarios, GPT-3.5 shows significant enhancement in suicide risk classification after fine-tuning. To our knowledge, this investigation stands as the maiden attempt at gauging large language models on Chinese social media tasks. This study underscores the forward-looking and transformative implications of using large language models in the field of psychology. It lays the groundwork for future applications in psychological research and practice. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Loquacity and Visible Emotion: ChatGPT as a Policy Advisor  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03595  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT, a software seeking to simulate human conversational abilities, is attracting increasing attention. It is sometimes portrayed as a groundbreaking productivity aid, including for creative work. In this paper, we run an experiment to assess its potential in complex writing tasks. We ask the software to compose a policy brief for the Board of the Bank of Italy. We find that ChatGPT can accelerate workflows by providing well-structured content suggestions, and by producing extensive, linguistically correct text in a matter of seconds. It does, however, require a significant amount of expert supervision, which partially offsets productivity gains. If the app is used naively, output can be incorrect, superficial, or irrelevant. Superficiality is an especially problematic limitation in the context of policy advice intended for high-level audiences. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Evaluating ChatGPT as a Recommender System: A Rigorous Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03613  
**Abstract:** Recent popularity surrounds large AI language models due to their impressive natural language capabilities. They contribute significantly to language-related tasks, including prompt-based learning, making them valuable for various specific tasks. This approach unlocks their full potential, enhancing precision and generalization. Research communities are actively exploring their applications, with ChatGPT receiving recognition. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Insights Into the Inner Workings of Transformer Models for Protein  Function Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03631  
**Abstract:** Motivation: We explored how explainable AI (XAI) can help to shed light into the inner workings of neural networks for protein function prediction, by extending the widely used XAI method of integrated gradients such that latent representations inside of transformer models, which were finetuned to Gene Ontology term and Enzyme Commission number prediction, can be inspected too. Results: The approach enabled us to identify amino acids in the sequences that the transformers pay particular attention to, and to show that these relevant sequence parts reflect expectations from biology and chemistry, both in the embedding layer and inside of the model, where we identified transformer heads with a statistically significant correspondence of attribution maps with ground truth sequence annotations (e.g., transmembrane regions, active sites) across many proteins. Availability and Implementation: Source code can be accessed at https://github.com/markuswenzel/xai-proteins . 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** VideolandGPT: A User Study on a Conversational Recommender System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03645  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates how large language models (LLMs) can enhance recommender systems, with a specific focus on Conversational Recommender Systems that leverage user preferences and personalised candidate selections from existing ranking models. We introduce VideolandGPT, a recommender system for a Video-on-Demand (VOD) platform, Videoland, which uses ChatGPT to select from a predetermined set of contents, considering the additional context indicated by users' interactions with a chat interface. We evaluate ranking metrics, user experience, and fairness of recommendations, comparing a personalised and a non-personalised version of the system, in a between-subject user study. Our results indicate that the personalised version outperforms the non-personalised in terms of accuracy and general user satisfaction, while both versions increase the visibility of items which are not in the top of the recommendation lists. However, both versions present inconsistent behavior in terms of fairness, as the system may generate recommendations which are not available on Videoland. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Exploring an LM to generate Prolog Predicates from Mathematics Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03667  
**Abstract:** Recently, there has been a surge in interest in NLP driven by ChatGPT. ChatGPT, a transformer-based generative language model of substantial scale, exhibits versatility in performing various tasks based on natural language. Nevertheless, large language models often exhibit poor performance in solving mathematics questions that require reasoning. Prior research has demonstrated the effectiveness of chain-of-thought prompting in enhancing reasoning capabilities. Now, we aim to investigate whether fine-tuning a model for the generation of Prolog codes, a logic language, and subsequently passing these codes to a compiler can further improve accuracy. Consequently, we employ chain-of-thought to fine-tune LLaMA7B as a baseline model and develop other fine-tuned LLaMA7B models for the generation of Prolog code, Prolog code + chain-of-thought, and chain-of-thought + Prolog code, respectively. The results reveal that the Prolog generation model surpasses the baseline in performance, while the combination generation models do not yield significant improvements. The Prolog corpus based on GSM8K and the correspondingly finetuned Prolog generation model based on LLaMA7B are released to the research community. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** DiffDefense: Defending against Adversarial Attacks via Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03702  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel reconstruction method that leverages Diffusion Models to protect machine learning classifiers against adversarial attacks, all without requiring any modifications to the classifiers themselves. The susceptibility of machine learning models to minor input perturbations renders them vulnerable to adversarial attacks. While diffusion-based methods are typically disregarded for adversarial defense due to their slow reverse process, this paper demonstrates that our proposed method offers robustness against adversarial threats while preserving clean accuracy, speed, and plug-and-play compatibility. Code at: https://github.com/HondamunigePrasannaSilva/DiffDefence. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Interpretable Visual Question Answering via Reasoning Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03726  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based architectures have recently demonstrated remarkable performance in the Visual Question Answering (VQA) task. However, such models are likely to disregard crucial visual cues and often rely on multimodal shortcuts and inherent biases of the language modality to predict the correct answer, a phenomenon commonly referred to as lack of visual grounding. In this work, we alleviate this shortcoming through a novel architecture for visual question answering that leverages common sense reasoning as a supervisory signal. Reasoning supervision takes the form of a textual justification of the correct answer, with such annotations being already available on large-scale Visual Common Sense Reasoning (VCR) datasets. The model's visual attention is guided toward important elements of the scene through a similarity loss that aligns the learned attention distributions guided by the question and the correct reasoning. We demonstrate both quantitatively and qualitatively that the proposed approach can boost the model's visual perception capability and lead to performance increase, without requiring training on explicit grounding annotations. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Phasic Content Fusing Diffusion Model with Directional Distribution  Consistency for Few-Shot Model Adaption  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03729  
**Abstract:** Training a generative model with limited number of samples is a challenging task. Current methods primarily rely on few-shot model adaption to train the network. However, in scenarios where data is extremely limited (less than 10), the generative network tends to overfit and suffers from content degradation. To address these problems, we propose a novel phasic content fusing few-shot diffusion model with directional distribution consistency loss, which targets different learning objectives at distinct training stages of the diffusion model. Specifically, we design a phasic training strategy with phasic content fusion to help our model learn content and style information when t is large, and learn local details of target domain when t is small, leading to an improvement in the capture of content, style and local details. Furthermore, we introduce a novel directional distribution consistency loss that ensures the consistency between the generated and source distributions more efficiently and stably than the prior methods, preventing our model from overfitting. Finally, we propose a cross-domain structure guidance strategy that enhances structure consistency during domain adaptation. Theoretical analysis, qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate the superiority of our approach in few-shot generative model adaption tasks compared to state-of-the-art methods. The source code is available at: https://github.com/sjtuplayer/few-shot-diffusion. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** The Daunting Dilemma with Sentence Encoders: Success on Standard  Benchmarks, Failure in Capturing Basic Semantic Properties  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03747  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we adopted a retrospective approach to examine and compare five existing popular sentence encoders, i.e., Sentence-BERT, Universal Sentence Encoder (USE), LASER, InferSent, and Doc2vec, in terms of their performance on downstream tasks versus their capability to capture basic semantic properties. Initially, we evaluated all five sentence encoders on the popular SentEval benchmark and found that multiple sentence encoders perform quite well on a variety of popular downstream tasks. However, being unable to find a single winner in all cases, we designed further experiments to gain a deeper understanding of their behavior. Specifically, we proposed four semantic evaluation criteria, i.e., Paraphrasing, Synonym Replacement, Antonym Replacement, and Sentence Jumbling, and evaluated the same five sentence encoders using these criteria. We found that the Sentence-Bert and USE models pass the paraphrasing criterion, with SBERT being the superior between the two. LASER dominates in the case of the synonym replacement criterion. Interestingly, all the sentence encoders failed the antonym replacement and jumbling criteria. These results suggest that although these popular sentence encoders perform quite well on the SentEval benchmark, they still struggle to capture some basic semantic properties, thus, posing a daunting dilemma in NLP research. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Enhancing Pipeline-Based Conversational Agents with Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03748  
**Abstract:** The latest advancements in AI and deep learning have led to a breakthrough in large language model (LLM)-based agents such as GPT-4. However, many commercial conversational agent development tools are pipeline-based and have limitations in holding a human-like conversation. This paper investigates the capabilities of LLMs to enhance pipeline-based conversational agents during two phases: 1) in the design and development phase and 2) during operations. In 1) LLMs can aid in generating training data, extracting entities and synonyms, localization, and persona design. In 2) LLMs can assist in contextualization, intent classification to prevent conversational breakdown and handle out-of-scope questions, auto-correcting utterances, rephrasing responses, formulating disambiguation questions, summarization, and enabling closed question-answering capabilities. We conducted informal experiments with GPT-4 in the private banking domain to demonstrate the scenarios above with a practical example. Companies may be hesitant to replace their pipeline-based agents with LLMs entirely due to privacy concerns and the need for deep integration within their existing ecosystems. A hybrid approach in which LLMs' are integrated into the pipeline-based agents allows them to save time and costs of building and running agents by capitalizing on the capabilities of LLMs while retaining the integration and privacy safeguards of their existing systems. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Training Acceleration of Low-Rank Decomposed Networks using Sequential  Freezing and Rank Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03824  
**Abstract:** Low Rank Decomposition (LRD) is a model compression technique applied to the weight tensors of deep learning models in order to reduce the number of trainable parameters and computational complexity. However, due to high number of new layers added to the architecture after applying LRD, it may not lead to a high training/inference acceleration if the decomposition ranks are not small enough. The issue is that using small ranks increases the risk of significant accuracy drop after decomposition. In this paper, we propose two techniques for accelerating low rank decomposed models without requiring to use small ranks for decomposition. These methods include rank optimization and sequential freezing of decomposed layers. We perform experiments on both convolutional and transformer-based models. Experiments show that these techniques can improve the model throughput up to 60% during training and 37% during inference when combined together while preserving the accuracy close to that of the original models 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** FLM-101B: An Open LLM and How to Train It with $100K Budget  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03852  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success in NLP and multimodal tasks. Despite these successes, their development faces two main challenges: (i) high computational cost; and (ii) difficulty in conducting fair and objective evaluations. LLMs are prohibitively expensive, making it feasible for only a few major players to undertake their training, thereby constraining both research and application opportunities. This underscores the importance of cost-effective LLM training. In this paper, we utilize a growth strategy to significantly reduce LLM training cost. We demonstrate that an LLM with 101B parameters and 0.31TB tokens can be trained on a $100K budget. We also adopt a systematic evaluation paradigm for the IQ evaluation of LLMs, in complement to existing evaluations that focus more on knowledge-oriented abilities. We introduce our benchmark including evaluations on important aspects of intelligence including symbolic mapping, itrule understanding, pattern mining, and anti-interference. Such evaluations minimize the potential impact of memorization. Experimental results show that our model FLM-101B, trained with a budget of $100K, achieves comparable performance to powerful and well-known models, eg GPT-3 and GLM-130B, especially in the IQ benchmark evaluations with contexts unseen in training data. The checkpoint of FLM-101B will be open-sourced at https://huggingface.co/CofeAI/FLM-101B. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Text-to-feature diffusion for audio-visual few-shot learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03869  
**Abstract:** Training deep learning models for video classification from audio-visual data commonly requires immense amounts of labeled training data collected via a costly process. A challenging and underexplored, yet much cheaper, setup is few-shot learning from video data. In particular, the inherently multi-modal nature of video data with sound and visual information has not been leveraged extensively for the few-shot video classification task. Therefore, we introduce a unified audio-visual few-shot video classification benchmark on three datasets, i.e. the VGGSound-FSL, UCF-FSL, ActivityNet-FSL datasets, where we adapt and compare ten methods. In addition, we propose AV-DIFF, a text-to-feature diffusion framework, which first fuses the temporal and audio-visual features via cross-modal attention and then generates multi-modal features for the novel classes. We show that AV-DIFF obtains state-of-the-art performance on our proposed benchmark for audio-visual (generalised) few-shot learning. Our benchmark paves the way for effective audio-visual classification when only limited labeled data is available. Code and data are available at https://github.com/ExplainableML/AVDIFF-GFSL. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** DoLa: Decoding by Contrasting Layers Improves Factuality in Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03883  
**Abstract:** Despite their impressive capabilities, large language models (LLMs) are prone to hallucinations, i.e., generating content that deviates from facts seen during pretraining. We propose a simple decoding strategy for reducing hallucinations with pretrained LLMs that does not require conditioning on retrieved external knowledge nor additional fine-tuning. Our approach obtains the next-token distribution by contrasting the differences in logits obtained from projecting the later layers versus earlier layers to the vocabulary space, exploiting the fact that factual knowledge in an LLMs has generally been shown to be localized to particular transformer layers. We find that this Decoding by Contrasting Layers (DoLa) approach is able to better surface factual knowledge and reduce the generation of incorrect facts. DoLa consistently improves the truthfulness across multiple choices tasks and open-ended generation tasks, for example improving the performance of LLaMA family models on TruthfulQA by 12-17% absolute points, demonstrating its potential in making LLMs reliably generate truthful facts. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Zero-Shot Audio Captioning via Audibility Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03884  
**Abstract:** The task of audio captioning is similar in essence to tasks such as image and video captioning. However, it has received much less attention. We propose three desiderata for captioning audio -- (i) fluency of the generated text, (ii) faithfulness of the generated text to the input audio, and the somewhat related (iii) audibility, which is the quality of being able to be perceived based only on audio. Our method is a zero-shot method, i.e., we do not learn to perform captioning. Instead, captioning occurs as an inference process that involves three networks that correspond to the three desired qualities: (i) A Large Language Model, in our case, for reasons of convenience, GPT-2, (ii) A model that provides a matching score between an audio file and a text, for which we use a multimodal matching network called ImageBind, and (iii) A text classifier, trained using a dataset we collected automatically by instructing GPT-4 with prompts designed to direct the generation of both audible and inaudible sentences. We present our results on the AudioCap dataset, demonstrating that audibility guidance significantly enhances performance compared to the baseline, which lacks this objective. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** DiffusionEngine: Diffusion Model is Scalable Data Engine for Object  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03893  
**Abstract:** Data is the cornerstone of deep learning. This paper reveals that the recently developed Diffusion Model is a scalable data engine for object detection. Existing methods for scaling up detection-oriented data often require manual collection or generative models to obtain target images, followed by data augmentation and labeling to produce training pairs, which are costly, complex, or lacking diversity. To address these issues, we presentDiffusionEngine (DE), a data scaling-up engine that provides high-quality detection-oriented training pairs in a single stage. DE consists of a pre-trained diffusion model and an effective Detection-Adapter, contributing to generating scalable, diverse and generalizable detection data in a plug-and-play manner. Detection-Adapter is learned to align the implicit semantic and location knowledge in off-the-shelf diffusion models with detection-aware signals to make better bounding-box predictions. Additionally, we contribute two datasets, i.e., COCO-DE and VOC-DE, to scale up existing detection benchmarks for facilitating follow-up research. Extensive experiments demonstrate that data scaling-up via DE can achieve significant improvements in diverse scenarios, such as various detection algorithms, self-supervised pre-training, data-sparse, label-scarce, cross-domain, and semi-supervised learning. For example, when using DE with a DINO-based adapter to scale up data, mAP is improved by 3.1% on COCO, 7.6% on VOC, and 11.5% on Clipart. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** InstructDiffusion: A Generalist Modeling Interface for Vision Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03895  
**Abstract:** We present InstructDiffusion, a unifying and generic framework for aligning computer vision tasks with human instructions. Unlike existing approaches that integrate prior knowledge and pre-define the output space (e.g., categories and coordinates) for each vision task, we cast diverse vision tasks into a human-intuitive image-manipulating process whose output space is a flexible and interactive pixel space. Concretely, the model is built upon the diffusion process and is trained to predict pixels according to user instructions, such as encircling the man's left shoulder in red or applying a blue mask to the left car. InstructDiffusion could handle a variety of vision tasks, including understanding tasks (such as segmentation and keypoint detection) and generative tasks (such as editing and enhancement). It even exhibits the ability to handle unseen tasks and outperforms prior methods on novel datasets. This represents a significant step towards a generalist modeling interface for vision tasks, advancing artificial general intelligence in the field of computer vision. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** ProPainter: Improving Propagation and Transformer for Video Inpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03897  
**Abstract:** Flow-based propagation and spatiotemporal Transformer are two mainstream mechanisms in video inpainting (VI). Despite the effectiveness of these components, they still suffer from some limitations that affect their performance. Previous propagation-based approaches are performed separately either in the image or feature domain. Global image propagation isolated from learning may cause spatial misalignment due to inaccurate optical flow. Moreover, memory or computational constraints limit the temporal range of feature propagation and video Transformer, preventing exploration of correspondence information from distant frames. To address these issues, we propose an improved framework, called ProPainter, which involves enhanced ProPagation and an efficient Transformer. Specifically, we introduce dual-domain propagation that combines the advantages of image and feature warping, exploiting global correspondences reliably. We also propose a mask-guided sparse video Transformer, which achieves high efficiency by discarding unnecessary and redundant tokens. With these components, ProPainter outperforms prior arts by a large margin of 1.46 dB in PSNR while maintaining appealing efficiency. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** The Making and Breaking of Camouflage  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03899  
**Abstract:** Not all camouflages are equally effective, as even a partially visible contour or a slight color difference can make the animal stand out and break its camouflage. In this paper, we address the question of what makes a camouflage successful, by proposing three scores for automatically assessing its effectiveness. In particular, we show that camouflage can be measured by the similarity between background and foreground features and boundary visibility. We use these camouflage scores to assess and compare all available camouflage datasets. We also incorporate the proposed camouflage score into a generative model as an auxiliary loss and show that effective camouflage images or videos can be synthesised in a scalable manner. The generated synthetic dataset is used to train a transformer-based model for segmenting camouflaged animals in videos. Experimentally, we demonstrate state-of-the-art camouflage breaking performance on the public MoCA-Mask benchmark. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Exploring Sparse MoE in GANs for Text-conditioned Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03904  
**Abstract:** Due to the difficulty in scaling up, generative adversarial networks (GANs) seem to be falling from grace on the task of text-conditioned image synthesis. Sparsely-activated mixture-of-experts (MoE) has recently been demonstrated as a valid solution to training large-scale models with limited computational resources. Inspired by such a philosophy, we present Aurora, a GAN-based text-to-image generator that employs a collection of experts to learn feature processing, together with a sparse router to help select the most suitable expert for each feature point. To faithfully decode the sampling stochasticity and the text condition to the final synthesis, our router adaptively makes its decision by taking into account the text-integrated global latent code. At 64x64 image resolution, our model trained on LAION2B-en and COYO-700M achieves 6.2 zero-shot FID on MS COCO. We release the code and checkpoints to facilitate the community for further development. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** EGIC: Enhanced Low-Bit-Rate Generative Image Compression Guided by  Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03244  
**Abstract:** We introduce EGIC, a novel generative image compression method that allows traversing the distortion-perception curve efficiently from a single model. Specifically, we propose an implicitly encoded variant of image interpolation that predicts the residual between a MSE-optimized and GAN-optimized decoder output. On the receiver side, the user can then control the impact of the residual on the GAN-based reconstruction. Together with improved GAN-based building blocks, EGIC outperforms a wide-variety of perception-oriented and distortion-oriented baselines, including HiFiC, MRIC and DIRAC, while performing almost on par with VTM-20.0 on the distortion end. EGIC is simple to implement, very lightweight (e.g. 0.18x model parameters compared to HiFiC) and provides excellent interpolation characteristics, which makes it a promising candidate for practical applications targeting the low bit range. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** MS-UNet-v2: Adaptive Denoising Method and Training Strategy for Medical  Image Segmentation with Small Training Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03686  
**Abstract:** Models based on U-like structures have improved the performance of medical image segmentation. However, the single-layer decoder structure of U-Net is too "thin" to exploit enough information, resulting in large semantic differences between the encoder and decoder parts. Things get worse if the number of training sets of data is not sufficiently large, which is common in medical image processing tasks where annotated data are more difficult to obtain than other tasks. Based on this observation, we propose a novel U-Net model named MS-UNet for the medical image segmentation task in this study. Instead of the single-layer U-Net decoder structure used in Swin-UNet and TransUnet, we specifically design a multi-scale nested decoder based on the Swin Transformer for U-Net. The proposed multi-scale nested decoder structure allows the feature mapping between the decoder and encoder to be semantically closer, thus enabling the network to learn more detailed features. In addition, we propose a novel edge loss and a plug-and-play fine-tuning Denoising module, which not only effectively improves the segmentation performance of MS-UNet, but could also be applied to other models individually. Experimental results show that MS-UNet could effectively improve the network performance with more efficient feature learning capability and exhibit more advanced performance, especially in the extreme case with a small amount of training data, and the proposed Edge loss and Denoising module could significantly enhance the segmentation performance of MS-UNet. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Early warning via transitions in latent stochastic dynamical systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.03842  
**Abstract:** Early warnings for dynamical transitions in complex systems or high-dimensional observation data are essential in many real world applications, such as gene mutation, brain diseases, natural disasters, financial crises, and engineering reliability. To effectively extract early warning signals, we develop a novel approach: the directed anisotropic diffusion map that captures the latent evolutionary dynamics in low-dimensional manifold. Applying the methodology to authentic electroencephalogram (EEG) data, we successfully find the appropriate effective coordinates, and derive early warning signals capable of detecting the tipping point during the state transition. Our method bridges the latent dynamics with the original dataset. The framework is validated to be accurate and effective through numerical experiments, in terms of density and transition probability. It is shown that the second coordinate holds meaningful information for critical transition in various evaluation metrics. 

