**Title:** Synthesis of Mathematical programs from Natural Language Specifications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03287

**Abstract:** Several decision problems that are encountered in various business domains can be modeled as mathematical programs, i.e. optimization problems. The process of conducting such modeling often requires the involvement of experts trained in operations research and advanced algorithms. Surprisingly, despite the significant advances in the methods for program and code synthesis, AutoML, learning to optimize etc., there has been little or no attention paid to automating the task of synthesizing mathematical programs. We imagine a scenario where the specifications for modeling, i.e. the objective and constraints are expressed in an unstructured form in natural language (NL) and the mathematical program has to be synthesized from such an NL specification. In this work we evaluate the efficacy of employing CodeT5 with data augmentation and post-processing of beams. We utilize GPT-3 with back translation for generation of synthetic examples. Further we apply rules of linear programming to score beams and correct beams based on common error patterns. We observe that with these enhancements CodeT5 base gives an execution accuracy of 0.73 which is significantly better than zero-shot execution accuracy of 0.41 by ChatGPT and 0.36 by Codex. 

**Title:** Vita-CLIP: Video and text adaptive CLIP via Multimodal Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03307

**Abstract:** Adopting contrastive image-text pretrained models like CLIP towards video classification has gained attention due to its cost-effectiveness and competitive performance. However, recent works in this area face a trade-off. Finetuning the pretrained model to achieve strong supervised performance results in low zero-shot generalization. Similarly, freezing the backbone to retain zero-shot capability causes significant drop in supervised accuracy. Because of this, recent works in literature typically train separate models for supervised and zero-shot action recognition. In this work, we propose a multimodal prompt learning scheme that works to balance the supervised and zero-shot performance under a single unified training. Our prompting approach on the vision side caters for three aspects: 1) Global video-level prompts to model the data distribution; 2) Local frame-level prompts to provide per-frame discriminative conditioning; and 3) a summary prompt to extract a condensed video representation. Additionally, we define a prompting scheme on the text side to augment the textual context. Through this prompting scheme, we can achieve state-of-the-art zero-shot performance on Kinetics-600, HMDB51 and UCF101 while remaining competitive in the supervised setting. By keeping the pretrained backbone frozen, we optimize a much lower number of parameters and retain the existing general representation which helps achieve the strong zero-shot performance. Our codes/models are released at https://github.com/TalalWasim/Vita-CLIP. 

**Title:** Towards Coherent Image Inpainting Using Denoising Diffusion Implicit  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03322

**Abstract:** Image inpainting refers to the task of generating a complete, natural image based on a partially revealed reference image. Recently, many research interests have been focused on addressing this problem using fixed diffusion models. These approaches typically directly replace the revealed region of the intermediate or final generated images with that of the reference image or its variants. However, since the unrevealed regions are not directly modified to match the context, it results in incoherence between revealed and unrevealed regions. To address the incoherence problem, a small number of methods introduce a rigorous Bayesian framework, but they tend to introduce mismatches between the generated and the reference images due to the approximation errors in computing the posterior distributions. In this paper, we propose COPAINT, which can coherently inpaint the whole image without introducing mismatches. COPAINT also uses the Bayesian framework to jointly modify both revealed and unrevealed regions, but approximates the posterior distribution in a way that allows the errors to gradually drop to zero throughout the denoising steps, thus strongly penalizing any mismatches with the reference image. Our experiments verify that COPAINT can outperform the existing diffusion-based methods under both objective and subjective metrics. The codes are available at https://github.com/UCSB-NLP-Chang/CoPaint/. 

**Title:** ChatGPT-Crawler: Find out if ChatGPT really knows what it's talking  about  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03325

**Abstract:** Large language models have gained considerable interest for their impressive performance on various tasks. Among these models, ChatGPT developed by OpenAI has become extremely popular among early adopters who even regard it as a disruptive technology in many fields like customer service, education, healthcare, and finance. It is essential to comprehend the opinions of these initial users as it can provide valuable insights into the potential strengths, weaknesses, and success or failure of the technology in different areas. This research examines the responses generated by ChatGPT from different Conversational QA corpora. The study employed BERT similarity scores to compare these responses with correct answers and obtain Natural Language Inference(NLI) labels. Evaluation scores were also computed and compared to determine the overall performance of GPT-3 \& GPT-4. Additionally, the study identified instances where ChatGPT provided incorrect answers to questions, providing insights into areas where the model may be prone to error. 

**Title:** On the Evaluations of ChatGPT and Emotion-enhanced Prompting for Mental  Health Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03347

**Abstract:** Automated mental health analysis shows great potential for enhancing the efficiency and accessibility of mental health care, whereas the recent dominant methods utilized pre-trained language models (PLMs) as the backbone and incorporated emotional information. The latest large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, exhibit dramatic capabilities on diverse natural language processing tasks. However, existing studies on ChatGPT's zero-shot performance for mental health analysis have limitations in inadequate evaluation, utilization of emotional information, and explainability of methods. In this work, we comprehensively evaluate the mental health analysis and emotional reasoning ability of ChatGPT on 11 datasets across 5 tasks, including binary and multi-class mental health condition detection, cause/factor detection of mental health conditions, emotion recognition in conversations, and causal emotion entailment. We empirically analyze the impact of different prompting strategies with emotional cues on ChatGPT's mental health analysis ability and explainability. Experimental results show that ChatGPT outperforms traditional neural network methods but still has a significant gap with advanced task-specific methods. The qualitative analysis shows its potential in explainability compared with advanced black-box methods but also limitations on robustness and inaccurate reasoning. Prompt engineering with emotional cues is found to be effective in improving its performance on mental health analysis but requires the proper way of emotion infusion. 

**Title:** TopNet: Transformer-based Object Placement Network for Image Compositing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03372

**Abstract:** We investigate the problem of automatically placing an object into a background image for image compositing. Given a background image and a segmented object, the goal is to train a model to predict plausible placements (location and scale) of the object for compositing. The quality of the composite image highly depends on the predicted location/scale. Existing works either generate candidate bounding boxes or apply sliding-window search using global representations from background and object images, which fail to model local information in background images. However, local clues in background images are important to determine the compatibility of placing the objects with certain locations/scales. In this paper, we propose to learn the correlation between object features and all local background features with a transformer module so that detailed information can be provided on all possible location/scale configurations. A sparse contrastive loss is further proposed to train our model with sparse supervision. Our new formulation generates a 3D heatmap indicating the plausibility of all location/scale combinations in one network forward pass, which is over 10 times faster than the previous sliding-window method. It also supports interactive search when users provide a pre-defined location or scale. The proposed method can be trained with explicit annotation or in a self-supervised manner using an off-the-shelf inpainting model, and it outperforms state-of-the-art methods significantly. The user study shows that the trained model generalizes well to real-world images with diverse challenging scenes and object categories. 

**Title:** Training-Free Layout Control with Cross-Attention Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03373

**Abstract:** Recent diffusion-based generators can produce high-quality images based only on textual prompts. However, they do not correctly interpret instructions that specify the spatial layout of the composition. We propose a simple approach that can achieve robust layout control without requiring training or fine-tuning the image generator. Our technique, which we call layout guidance, manipulates the cross-attention layers that the model uses to interface textual and visual information and steers the reconstruction in the desired direction given, e.g., a user-specified layout. In order to determine how to best guide attention, we study the role of different attention maps when generating images and experiment with two alternative strategies, forward and backward guidance. We evaluate our method quantitatively and qualitatively with several experiments, validating its effectiveness. We further demonstrate its versatility by extending layout guidance to the task of editing the layout and context of a given real image. 

**Title:** Beyond NeRF Underwater: Learning Neural Reflectance Fields for True  Color Correction of Marine Imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03384

**Abstract:** Underwater imagery often exhibits distorted coloration as a result of light-water interactions, which complicates the study of benthic environments in marine biology and geography. In this research, we propose an algorithm to restore the true color (albedo) in underwater imagery by jointly learning the effects of the medium and neural scene representations. Our approach models water effects as a combination of light attenuation with distance and backscattered light. The proposed neural scene representation is based on a neural reflectance field model, which learns albedos, normals, and volume densities of the underwater environment. We introduce a logistic regression model to separate water from the scene and apply distinct light physics during training. Our method avoids the need to estimate complex backscatter effects in water by employing several approximations, enhancing sampling efficiency and numerical stability during training. The proposed technique integrates underwater light effects into a volume rendering framework with end-to-end differentiability. Experimental results on both synthetic and real-world data demonstrate that our method effectively restores true color from underwater imagery, outperforming existing approaches in terms of color consistency. 

**Title:** Deep Learning for Opinion Mining and Topic Classification of Course  Reviews  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03394

**Abstract:** Student opinions for a course are important to educators and administrators, regardless of the type of the course or the institution. Reading and manually analyzing open-ended feedback becomes infeasible for massive volumes of comments at institution level or online forums. In this paper, we collected and pre-processed a large number of course reviews publicly available online. We applied machine learning techniques with the goal to gain insight into student sentiments and topics. Specifically, we utilized current Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques, such as word embeddings and deep neural networks, and state-of-the-art BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers), RoBERTa (Robustly optimized BERT approach) and XLNet (Generalized Auto-regression Pre-training). We performed extensive experimentation to compare these techniques versus traditional approaches. This comparative study demonstrates how to apply modern machine learning approaches for sentiment polarity extraction and topic-based classification utilizing course feedback. For sentiment polarity, the top model was RoBERTa with 95.5\% accuracy and 84.7\% F1-macro, while for topic classification, an SVM (Support Vector Machine) was the top classifier with 79.8\% accuracy and 80.6\% F1-macro. We also provided an in-depth exploration of the effect of certain hyperparameters on the model performance and discussed our observations. These findings can be used by institutions and course providers as a guide for analyzing their own course feedback using NLP models towards self-evaluation and improvement. 

**Title:** RoSteALS: Robust Steganography using Autoencoder Latent Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03400

**Abstract:** Data hiding such as steganography and invisible watermarking has important applications in copyright protection, privacy-preserved communication and content provenance. Existing works often fall short in either preserving image quality, or robustness against perturbations or are too complex to train. We propose RoSteALS, a practical steganography technique leveraging frozen pretrained autoencoders to free the payload embedding from learning the distribution of cover images. RoSteALS has a light-weight secret encoder of just 300k parameters, is easy to train, has perfect secret recovery performance and comparable image quality on three benchmarks. Additionally, RoSteALS can be adapted for novel cover-less steganography applications in which the cover image can be sampled from noise or conditioned on text prompts via a denoising diffusion process. Our model and code are available at \url{https://github.com/TuBui/RoSteALS}. 

**Title:** $R^{2}$Former: Unified $R$etrieval and $R$eranking Transformer for Place  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03410

**Abstract:** Visual Place Recognition (VPR) estimates the location of query images by matching them with images in a reference database. Conventional methods generally adopt aggregated CNN features for global retrieval and RANSAC-based geometric verification for reranking. However, RANSAC only employs geometric information but ignores other possible information that could be useful for reranking, e.g. local feature correlations, and attention values. In this paper, we propose a unified place recognition framework that handles both retrieval and reranking with a novel transformer model, named $R^{2}$Former. The proposed reranking module takes feature correlation, attention value, and xy coordinates into account, and learns to determine whether the image pair is from the same location. The whole pipeline is end-to-end trainable and the reranking module alone can also be adopted on other CNN or transformer backbones as a generic component. Remarkably, $R^{2}$Former significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on major VPR datasets with much less inference time and memory consumption. It also achieves the state-of-the-art on the hold-out MSLS challenge set and could serve as a simple yet strong solution for real-world large-scale applications. Experiments also show vision transformer tokens are comparable and sometimes better than CNN local features on local matching. The code is released at https://github.com/Jeff-Zilence/R2Former. 

**Title:** Cleansing Jewel: A Neural Spelling Correction Model Built On Google  OCR-ed Tibetan Manuscripts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03427

**Abstract:** Scholars in the humanities rely heavily on ancient manuscripts to study history, religion, and socio-political structures in the past. Many efforts have been devoted to digitizing these precious manuscripts using OCR technology, but most manuscripts were blemished over the centuries so that an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) program cannot be expected to capture faded graphs and stains on pages. This work presents a neural spelling correction model built on Google OCR-ed Tibetan Manuscripts to auto-correct OCR-ed noisy output. This paper is divided into four sections: dataset, model architecture, training and analysis. First, we feature-engineered our raw Tibetan etext corpus into two sets of structured data frames -- a set of paired toy data and a set of paired real data. Then, we implemented a Confidence Score mechanism into the Transformer architecture to perform spelling correction tasks. According to the Loss and Character Error Rate, our Transformer + Confidence score mechanism architecture proves to be superior to Transformer, LSTM-2-LSTM and GRU-2-GRU architectures. Finally, to examine the robustness of our model, we analyzed erroneous tokens, visualized Attention and Self-Attention heatmaps in our model. 

**Title:** Opinion Mining from YouTube Captions Using ChatGPT: A Case Study of  Street Interviews Polling the 2023 Turkish Elections  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03434

**Abstract:** Opinion mining plays a critical role in understanding public sentiment and preferences, particularly in the context of political elections. Traditional polling methods, while useful, can be expensive and less scalable. Social media offers an alternative source of data for opinion mining but presents challenges such as noise, biases, and platform limitations in data collection. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for opinion mining, utilizing YouTube's auto-generated captions from public interviews as a data source, specifically focusing on the 2023 Turkish elections as a case study. We introduce an opinion mining framework using ChatGPT to mass-annotate voting intentions and motivations that represent the stance and frames prior to the election. We report that ChatGPT can predict the preferred candidate with 97\% accuracy and identify the correct voting motivation out of 13 possible choices with 71\% accuracy based on the data collected from 325 interviews. We conclude by discussing the robustness of our approach, accounting for factors such as captions quality, interview length, and channels. This new method will offer a less noisy and cost-effective alternative for opinion mining using social media data. 

**Title:** Evaluating the Logical Reasoning Ability of ChatGPT and GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03439

**Abstract:** Harnessing logical reasoning ability is a comprehensive natural language understanding endeavor. With the release of Generative Pretrained Transformer 4 (GPT-4), highlighted as "advanced" at reasoning tasks, we are eager to learn the GPT-4 performance on various logical reasoning tasks. This report analyses multiple logical reasoning datasets, with popular benchmarks like LogiQA and ReClor, and newly-released datasets like AR-LSAT. We test the multi-choice reading comprehension and natural language inference tasks with benchmarks requiring logical reasoning. We further construct a logical reasoning out-of-distribution dataset to investigate the robustness of ChatGPT and GPT-4. We also make a performance comparison between ChatGPT and GPT-4. Experiment results show that ChatGPT performs significantly better than the RoBERTa fine-tuning method on most logical reasoning benchmarks. GPT-4 shows even higher performance on our manual tests. Among benchmarks, ChatGPT and GPT-4 do relatively well on well-known datasets like LogiQA and ReClor. However, the performance drops significantly when handling newly released and out-of-distribution datasets. Logical reasoning remains challenging for ChatGPT and GPT-4, especially on out-of-distribution and natural language inference datasets. 

**Title:** Exploring Collaborative Distributed Diffusion-Based AI-Generated Content  (AIGC) in Wireless Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03446

**Abstract:** Driven by advances in generative artificial intelligence (AI) techniques and algorithms, the widespread adoption of AI-generated content (AIGC) has emerged, allowing for the generation of diverse and high-quality content. Especially, the diffusion model-based AIGC technique has been widely used to generate content in a variety of modalities. However, the real-world implementation of AIGC models, particularly on resource-constrained devices such as mobile phones, introduces significant challenges related to energy consumption and privacy concerns. To further promote the realization of ubiquitous AIGC services, we propose a novel collaborative distributed diffusion-based AIGC framework. By capitalizing on collaboration among devices in wireless networks, the proposed framework facilitates the efficient execution of AIGC tasks, optimizing edge computation resource utilization. Furthermore, we examine the practical implementation of the denoising steps on mobile phones, the impact of the proposed approach on the wireless network-aided AIGC landscape, and the future opportunities associated with its real-world integration. The contributions of this paper not only offer a promising solution to the existing limitations of AIGC services but also pave the way for future research in device collaboration, resource optimization, and the seamless delivery of AIGC services across various devices. Our code is available at https://github.com/HongyangDu/DistributedDiffusion. 

**Title:** PSLT: A Light-weight Vision Transformer with Ladder Self-Attention and  Progressive Shift  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03481

**Abstract:** Vision Transformer (ViT) has shown great potential for various visual tasks due to its ability to model long-range dependency. However, ViT requires a large amount of computing resource to compute the global self-attention. In this work, we propose a ladder self-attention block with multiple branches and a progressive shift mechanism to develop a light-weight transformer backbone that requires less computing resources (e.g. a relatively small number of parameters and FLOPs), termed Progressive Shift Ladder Transformer (PSLT). First, the ladder self-attention block reduces the computational cost by modelling local self-attention in each branch. In the meanwhile, the progressive shift mechanism is proposed to enlarge the receptive field in the ladder self-attention block by modelling diverse local self-attention for each branch and interacting among these branches. Second, the input feature of the ladder self-attention block is split equally along the channel dimension for each branch, which considerably reduces the computational cost in the ladder self-attention block (with nearly 1/3 the amount of parameters and FLOPs), and the outputs of these branches are then collaborated by a pixel-adaptive fusion. Therefore, the ladder self-attention block with a relatively small number of parameters and FLOPs is capable of modelling long-range interactions. Based on the ladder self-attention block, PSLT performs well on several vision tasks, including image classification, objection detection and person re-identification. On the ImageNet-1k dataset, PSLT achieves a top-1 accuracy of 79.9% with 9.2M parameters and 1.9G FLOPs, which is comparable to several existing models with more than 20M parameters and 4G FLOPs. Code is available at https://isee-ai.cn/wugaojie/PSLT.html. 

**Title:** Generative Recommendation: Towards Next-generation Recommender Paradigm  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03516

**Abstract:** Recommender systems typically retrieve items from an item corpus for personalized recommendations. However, such a retrieval-based recommender paradigm faces two limitations: 1) the human-generated items in the corpus might fail to satisfy the users' diverse information needs, and 2) users usually adjust the recommendations via passive and inefficient feedback such as clicks. Nowadays, AI-Generated Content (AIGC) has revealed significant success across various domains, offering the potential to overcome these limitations: 1) generative AI can produce personalized items to meet users' specific information needs, and 2) the newly emerged ChatGPT significantly facilitates users to express information needs more precisely via natural language instructions. In this light, the boom of AIGC points the way towards the next-generation recommender paradigm with two new objectives: 1) generating personalized content through generative AI, and 2) integrating user instructions to guide content generation. 

**Title:** SSS at SemEval-2023 Task 10: Explainable Detection of Online Sexism  using Majority Voted Fine-Tuned Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03518

**Abstract:** This paper describes our submission to Task 10 at SemEval 2023-Explainable Detection of Online Sexism (EDOS), divided into three subtasks. The recent rise in social media platforms has seen an increase in disproportionate levels of sexism experienced by women on social media platforms. This has made detecting and explaining online sexist content more important than ever to make social media safer and more accessible for women. Our approach consists of experimenting and finetuning BERT-based models and using a Majority Voting ensemble model that outperforms individual baseline model scores. Our system achieves a macro F1 score of 0.8392 for Task A, 0.6092 for Task B, and 0.4319 for Task C. 

**Title:** Lift3D: Synthesize 3D Training Data by Lifting 2D GAN to 3D Generative  Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03526

**Abstract:** This work explores the use of 3D generative models to synthesize training data for 3D vision tasks. The key requirements of the generative models are that the generated data should be photorealistic to match the real-world scenarios, and the corresponding 3D attributes should be aligned with given sampling labels. However, we find that the recent NeRF-based 3D GANs hardly meet the above requirements due to their designed generation pipeline and the lack of explicit 3D supervision. In this work, we propose Lift3D, an inverted 2D-to-3D generation framework to achieve the data generation objectives. Lift3D has several merits compared to prior methods: (1) Unlike previous 3D GANs that the output resolution is fixed after training, Lift3D can generalize to any camera intrinsic with higher resolution and photorealistic output. (2) By lifting well-disentangled 2D GAN to 3D object NeRF, Lift3D provides explicit 3D information of generated objects, thus offering accurate 3D annotations for downstream tasks. We evaluate the effectiveness of our framework by augmenting autonomous driving datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our data generation framework can effectively improve the performance of 3D object detectors. Project page: https://len-li.github.io/lift3d-web. 

**Title:** ChatPipe: Orchestrating Data Preparation Program by Optimizing  Human-ChatGPT Interactions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03540

**Abstract:** Orchestrating a high-quality data preparation program is essential for successful machine learning (ML), but it is known to be time and effort consuming. Despite the impressive capabilities of large language models like ChatGPT in generating programs by interacting with users through natural language prompts, there are still limitations. Specifically, a user must provide specific prompts to iteratively guide ChatGPT in improving data preparation programs, which requires a certain level of expertise in programming, the dataset used and the ML task. Moreover, once a program has been generated, it is non-trivial to revisit a previous version or make changes to the program without starting the process over again. In this paper, we present ChatPipe, a novel system designed to facilitate seamless interaction between users and ChatGPT. ChatPipe provides users with effective recommendation on next data preparation operations, and guides ChatGPT to generate program for the operations. Also, ChatPipe enables users to easily roll back to previous versions of the program, which facilitates more efficient experimentation and testing. We have developed a web application for ChatPipe and prepared several real-world ML tasks from Kaggle. These tasks can showcase the capabilities of ChatPipe and enable VLDB attendees to easily experiment with our novel features to rapidly orchestrate a high-quality data preparation program. 

**Title:** ArmanTTS single-speaker Persian dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03585

**Abstract:** TTS, or text-to-speech, is a complicated process that can be accomplished through appropriate modeling using deep learning methods. In order to implement deep learning models, a suitable dataset is required. Since there is a scarce amount of work done in this field for the Persian language, this paper will introduce the single speaker dataset: ArmanTTS. We compared the characteristics of this dataset with those of various prevalent datasets to prove that ArmanTTS meets the necessary standards for teaching a Persian text-to-speech conversion model. We also combined the Tacotron 2 and HiFi GAN to design a model that can receive phonemes as input, with the output being the corresponding speech. 4.0 value of MOS was obtained from real speech, 3.87 value was obtained by the vocoder prediction and 2.98 value was reached with the synthetic speech generated by the TTS model. 

**Title:** What does ChatGPT return about human values? Exploring value bias in  ChatGPT using a descriptive value theory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03612

**Abstract:** There has been concern about ideological basis and possible discrimination in text generated by Large Language Models (LLMs). We test possible value biases in ChatGPT using a psychological value theory. We designed a simple experiment in which we used a number of different probes derived from the Schwartz basic value theory (items from the revised Portrait Value Questionnaire, the value type definitions, value names). We prompted ChatGPT via the OpenAI API repeatedly to generate text and then analyzed the generated corpus for value content with a theory-driven value dictionary using a bag of words approach. Overall, we found little evidence of explicit value bias. The results showed sufficient construct and discriminant validity for the generated text in line with the theoretical predictions of the psychological model, which suggests that the value content was carried through into the outputs with high fidelity. We saw some merging of socially oriented values, which may suggest that these values are less clearly differentiated at a linguistic level or alternatively, this mixing may reflect underlying universal human motivations. We outline some possible applications of our findings for both applications of ChatGPT for corporate usage and policy making as well as future research avenues. We also highlight possible implications of this relatively high-fidelity replication of motivational content using a linguistic model for the theorizing about human values. 

**Title:** A2J-Transformer: Anchor-to-Joint Transformer Network for 3D Interacting  Hand Pose Estimation from a Single RGB Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03635

**Abstract:** 3D interacting hand pose estimation from a single RGB image is a challenging task, due to serious self-occlusion and inter-occlusion towards hands, confusing similar appearance patterns between 2 hands, ill-posed joint position mapping from 2D to 3D, etc.. To address these, we propose to extend A2J-the state-of-the-art depth-based 3D single hand pose estimation method-to RGB domain under interacting hand condition. Our key idea is to equip A2J with strong local-global aware ability to well capture interacting hands' local fine details and global articulated clues among joints jointly. To this end, A2J is evolved under Transformer's non-local encoding-decoding framework to build A2J-Transformer. It holds 3 main advantages over A2J. First, self-attention across local anchor points is built to make them global spatial context aware to better capture joints' articulation clues for resisting occlusion. Secondly, each anchor point is regarded as learnable query with adaptive feature learning for facilitating pattern fitting capacity, instead of having the same local representation with the others. Last but not least, anchor point locates in 3D space instead of 2D as in A2J, to leverage 3D pose prediction. Experiments on challenging InterHand 2.6M demonstrate that, A2J-Transformer can achieve state-of-the-art model-free performance (3.38mm MPJPE advancement in 2-hand case) and can also be applied to depth domain with strong generalization. 

**Title:** Compressed Regression over Adaptive Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03638

**Abstract:** In this work we derive the performance achievable by a network of distributed agents that solve, adaptively and in the presence of communication constraints, a regression problem. Agents employ the recently proposed ACTC (adapt-compress-then-combine) diffusion strategy, where the signals exchanged locally by neighboring agents are encoded with randomized differential compression operators. We provide a detailed characterization of the mean-square estimation error, which is shown to comprise a term related to the error that agents would achieve without communication constraints, plus a term arising from compression. The analysis reveals quantitative relationships between the compression loss and fundamental attributes of the distributed regression problem, in particular, the stochastic approximation error caused by the gradient noise and the network topology (through the Perron eigenvector). We show that knowledge of such relationships is critical to allocate optimally the communication resources across the agents, taking into account their individual attributes, such as the quality of their data or their degree of centrality in the network topology. We devise an optimized allocation strategy where the parameters necessary for the optimization can be learned online by the agents. Illustrative examples show that a significant performance improvement, as compared to a blind (i.e., uniform) resource allocation, can be achieved by optimizing the allocation by means of the provided mean-square-error formulas. 

**Title:** A Cross-Scale Hierarchical Transformer with Correspondence-Augmented  Attention for inferring Bird's-Eye-View Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03650

**Abstract:** As bird's-eye-view (BEV) semantic segmentation is simple-to-visualize and easy-to-handle, it has been applied in autonomous driving to provide the surrounding information to downstream tasks. Inferring BEV semantic segmentation conditioned on multi-camera-view images is a popular scheme in the community as cheap devices and real-time processing. The recent work implemented this task by learning the content and position relationship via the vision Transformer (ViT). However, the quadratic complexity of ViT confines the relationship learning only in the latent layer, leaving the scale gap to impede the representation of fine-grained objects. And their plain fusion method of multi-view features does not conform to the information absorption intention in representing BEV features. To tackle these issues, we propose a novel cross-scale hierarchical Transformer with correspondence-augmented attention for semantic segmentation inferring. Specifically, we devise a hierarchical framework to refine the BEV feature representation, where the last size is only half of the final segmentation. To save the computation increase caused by this hierarchical framework, we exploit the cross-scale Transformer to learn feature relationships in a reversed-aligning way, and leverage the residual connection of BEV features to facilitate information transmission between scales. We propose correspondence-augmented attention to distinguish conducive and inconducive correspondences. It is implemented in a simple yet effective way, amplifying attention scores before the Softmax operation, so that the position-view-related and the position-view-disrelated attention scores are highlighted and suppressed. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method has state-of-the-art performance in inferring BEV semantic segmentation conditioned on multi-camera-view images. 

**Title:** Probing Conceptual Understanding of Large Visual-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03659

**Abstract:** We present a novel framework for probing and improving relational, compositional and contextual understanding of large visual-language models (V+L). While large V+L models have achieved success in various downstream tasks, it is not clear if they have a conceptual grasp of the content. We propose a novel benchmarking dataset for probing three aspects of content understanding. Our probes are grounded in cognitive science and help determine if a V+L model can, for example, determine if snow garnished with a man is implausible, or if it can identify beach furniture by knowing it is located on a beach. We have experimented with 5 well known models, such as CLIP and ViLT, and found that they mostly fail to demonstrate a conceptual understanding. That said, we find interesting insights such as cross-attention helps learning conceptual understanding. We use these insights to propose a new finetuning technique that rewards the three conceptual understanding measures we proposed. We hope that the presented benchmarks will help the community assess and improve the conceptual understanding capabilities of large V+L models. 

**Title:** On the Importance of Contrastive Loss in Multimodal Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03717

**Abstract:** Recently, contrastive learning approaches (e.g., CLIP (Radford et al., 2021)) have received huge success in multimodal learning, where the model tries to minimize the distance between the representations of different views (e.g., image and its caption) of the same data point while keeping the representations of different data points away from each other. However, from a theoretical perspective, it is unclear how contrastive learning can learn the representations from different views efficiently, especially when the data is not isotropic. In this work, we analyze the training dynamics of a simple multimodal contrastive learning model and show that contrastive pairs are important for the model to efficiently balance the learned representations. In particular, we show that the positive pairs will drive the model to align the representations at the cost of increasing the condition number, while the negative pairs will reduce the condition number, keeping the learned representations balanced. 

**Title:** Beyond Privacy: Navigating the Opportunities and Challenges of Synthetic  Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03722

**Abstract:** Generating synthetic data through generative models is gaining interest in the ML community and beyond. In the past, synthetic data was often regarded as a means to private data release, but a surge of recent papers explore how its potential reaches much further than this -- from creating more fair data to data augmentation, and from simulation to text generated by ChatGPT. In this perspective we explore whether, and how, synthetic data may become a dominant force in the machine learning world, promising a future where datasets can be tailored to individual needs. Just as importantly, we discuss which fundamental challenges the community needs to overcome for wider relevance and application of synthetic data -- the most important of which is quantifying how much we can trust any finding or prediction drawn from synthetic data. 

**Title:** Interpretable Unified Language Checking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03728

**Abstract:** Despite recent concerns about undesirable behaviors generated by large language models (LLMs), including non-factual, biased, and hateful language, we find LLMs are inherent multi-task language checkers based on their latent representations of natural and social knowledge. We present an interpretable, unified, language checking (UniLC) method for both human and machine-generated language that aims to check if language input is factual and fair. While fairness and fact-checking tasks have been handled separately with dedicated models, we find that LLMs can achieve high performance on a combination of fact-checking, stereotype detection, and hate speech detection tasks with a simple, few-shot, unified set of prompts. With the ``1/2-shot'' multi-task language checking method proposed in this work, the GPT3.5-turbo model outperforms fully supervised baselines on several language tasks. The simple approach and results suggest that based on strong latent knowledge representations, an LLM can be an adaptive and explainable tool for detecting misinformation, stereotypes, and hate speech. 

**Title:** Should ChatGPT be Biased? Challenges and Risks of Bias in Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03738

**Abstract:** As the capabilities of generative language models continue to advance, the implications of biases ingrained within these models have garnered increasing attention from researchers, practitioners, and the broader public. This article investigates the challenges and risks associated with biases in large-scale language models like ChatGPT. We discuss the origins of biases, stemming from, among others, the nature of training data, model specifications, algorithmic constraints, product design, and policy decisions. We explore the ethical concerns arising from the unintended consequences of biased model outputs. We further analyze the potential opportunities to mitigate biases, the inevitability of some biases, and the implications of deploying these models in various applications, such as virtual assistants, content generation, and chatbots. Finally, we review the current approaches to identify, quantify, and mitigate biases in language models, emphasizing the need for a multi-disciplinary, collaborative effort to develop more equitable, transparent, and responsible AI systems. This article aims to stimulate a thoughtful dialogue within the artificial intelligence community, encouraging researchers and developers to reflect on the role of biases in generative language models and the ongoing pursuit of ethical AI. 

**Title:** Leveraging GANs for data scarcity of COVID-19: Beyond the hype  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03536

**Abstract:** Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based models can help in diagnosing COVID-19 from lung CT scans and X-ray images; however, these models require large amounts of data for training and validation. Many researchers studied Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) for producing synthetic lung CT scans and X-Ray images to improve the performance of AI-based models. It is not well explored how good GAN-based methods performed to generate reliable synthetic data. This work analyzes 43 published studies that reported GANs for synthetic data generation. Many of these studies suffered data bias, lack of reproducibility, and lack of feedback from the radiologists or other domain experts. A common issue in these studies is the unavailability of the source code, hindering reproducibility. The included studies reported rescaling of the input images to train the existing GANs architecture without providing clinical insights on how the rescaling was motivated. Finally, even though GAN-based methods have the potential for data augmentation and improving the training of AI-based models, these methods fall short in terms of their use in clinical practice. This paper highlights research hotspots in countering the data scarcity problem, identifies various issues as well as potentials, and provides recommendations to guide future research. These recommendations might be useful to improve acceptability for the GAN-based approaches for data augmentation as GANs for data augmentation are increasingly becoming popular in the AI and medical imaging research community. 

**Title:** $β$-Variational autoencoders and transformers for reduced-order  modelling of fluid flows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03571

**Abstract:** Variational autoencoder (VAE) architectures have the potential to develop reduced-order models (ROMs) for chaotic fluid flows. We propose a method for learning compact and near-orthogonal ROMs using a combination of a $\beta$-VAE and a transformer, tested on numerical data from a two-dimensional viscous flow in both periodic and chaotic regimes. The $\beta$-VAE is trained to learn a compact latent representation of the flow velocity, and the transformer is trained to predict the temporal dynamics in latent space. Using the $\beta$-VAE to learn disentangled representations in latent-space, we obtain a more interpretable flow model with features that resemble those observed in the proper orthogonal decomposition, but with a more efficient representation. Using Poincar\'e maps, the results show that our method can capture the underlying dynamics of the flow outperforming other prediction models. The proposed method has potential applications in other fields such as weather forecasting, structural dynamics or biomedical engineering. 

**Title:** Zero-shot CT Field-of-view Completion with Unconditional Generative  Diffusion Prior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03760

**Abstract:** Anatomically consistent field-of-view (FOV) completion to recover truncated body sections has important applications in quantitative analyses of computed tomography (CT) with limited FOV. Existing solution based on conditional generative models relies on the fidelity of synthetic truncation patterns at training phase, which poses limitations for the generalizability of the method to potential unknown types of truncation. In this study, we evaluate a zero-shot method based on a pretrained unconditional generative diffusion prior, where truncation pattern with arbitrary forms can be specified at inference phase. In evaluation on simulated chest CT slices with synthetic FOV truncation, the method is capable of recovering anatomically consistent body sections and subcutaneous adipose tissue measurement error caused by FOV truncation. However, the correction accuracy is inferior to the conditionally trained counterpart. 

