**Title:** Generative AI for learning: Investigating the potential of synthetic  learning videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03784

**Abstract:** Recent advances in generative artificial intelligence (AI) have captured worldwide attention. Tools such as Dalle-2 and ChatGPT suggest that tasks previously thought to be beyond the capabilities of AI may now augment the productivity of creative media in various new ways, including through the generation of synthetic video. This research paper explores the utility of using AI-generated synthetic video to create viable educational content for online educational settings. To date, there is limited research investigating the real-world educational value of AI-generated synthetic media. To address this gap, we examined the impact of using AI-generated synthetic video in an online learning platform on both learners content acquisition and learning experience. We took a mixed-method approach, randomly assigning adult learners (n=83) into one of two micro-learning conditions, collecting pre- and post-learning assessments, and surveying participants on their learning experience. The control condition included a traditionally produced instructor video, while the experimental condition included a synthetic video with a realistic AI-generated character. The results show that learners in both conditions demonstrated significant improvement from pre- to post-learning (p<.001), with no significant differences in gains between the two conditions (p=.80). In addition, no differences were observed in how learners perceived the traditional and synthetic videos. These findings suggest that AI-generated synthetic learning videos have the potential to be a viable substitute for videos produced via traditional methods in online educational settings, making high quality educational content more accessible across the globe. 

**Title:** ChiroDiff: Modelling chirographic data with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03785

**Abstract:** Generative modelling over continuous-time geometric constructs, a.k.a such as handwriting, sketches, drawings etc., have been accomplished through autoregressive distributions. Such strictly-ordered discrete factorization however falls short of capturing key properties of chirographic data -- it fails to build holistic understanding of the temporal concept due to one-way visibility (causality). Consequently, temporal data has been modelled as discrete token sequences of fixed sampling rate instead of capturing the true underlying concept. In this paper, we introduce a powerful model-class namely "Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models" or DDPMs for chirographic data that specifically addresses these flaws. Our model named "ChiroDiff", being non-autoregressive, learns to capture holistic concepts and therefore remains resilient to higher temporal sampling rate up to a good extent. Moreover, we show that many important downstream utilities (e.g. conditional sampling, creative mixing) can be flexibly implemented using ChiroDiff. We further show some unique use-cases like stochastic vectorization, de-noising/healing, abstraction are also possible with this model-class. We perform quantitative and qualitative evaluation of our framework on relevant datasets and found it to be better or on par with competing approaches. 

**Title:** Correcting Model Misspecification via Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03805

**Abstract:** Machine learning models are often misspecified in the likelihood, which leads to a lack of robustness in the predictions. In this paper, we introduce a framework for correcting likelihood misspecifications in several paradigm agnostic noisy prior models and test the model's ability to remove the misspecification. The "ABC-GAN" framework introduced is a novel generative modeling paradigm, which combines Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC). This new paradigm assists the existing GANs by incorporating any subjective knowledge available about the modeling process via ABC, as a regularizer, resulting in a partially interpretable model that operates well under low data regimes. At the same time, unlike any Bayesian analysis, the explicit knowledge need not be perfect, since the generator in the GAN can be made arbitrarily complex. ABC-GAN eliminates the need for summary statistics and distance metrics as the discriminator implicitly learns them and enables simultaneous specification of multiple generative models. The model misspecification is simulated in our experiments by introducing noise of various biases and variances. The correction term is learnt via the ABC-GAN, with skip connections, referred to as skipGAN. The strength of the skip connection indicates the amount of correction needed or how misspecified the prior model is. Based on a simple experimental setup, we show that the ABC-GAN models not only correct the misspecification of the prior, but also perform as well as or better than the respective priors under noisier conditions. In this proposal, we show that ABC-GANs get the best of both worlds. 

**Title:** Why think step-by-step? Reasoning emerges from the locality of  experience  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03843

**Abstract:** Humans have a powerful and mysterious capacity to reason. By working through a series of purely mental steps, we can make inferences we would not be capable of making directly -- despite that fact that we get no additional data from the world. Similarly, large language models can perform better at complex tasks through chain-of-thought reasoning, where they generate intermediate steps before answering a question. We use language models to investigate the questions of when and why reasoning is helpful, testing the hypothesis that reasoning is effective when training data consisting of local clusters of variables that influence each other strongly. These training conditions enable the chaining of accurate local inferences in order to estimate relationships between variables that were not seen together in training. We train an autoregressive transformer on samples from joint distributions defined by Bayes nets, but only include a subset of all the variables in each sample. We compare language models' ability to match conditional probabilities both with and without intermediate reasoning steps, finding that intermediate steps help only when the training data is locally structured with respect to dependencies between variables. Furthermore, intermediate variables need to be relevant to the relationship between observed information and target inferences. Our results illustrate how the statistical structure of training data drives the effectiveness of reasoning step by step. 

**Title:** Revisiting Deep Learning for Variable Type Recovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03854

**Abstract:** Compiled binary executables are often the only available artifact in reverse engineering, malware analysis, and software systems maintenance. Unfortunately, the lack of semantic information like variable types makes comprehending binaries difficult. In efforts to improve the comprehensibility of binaries, researchers have recently used machine learning techniques to predict semantic information contained in the original source code. Chen et al. implemented DIRTY, a Transformer-based Encoder-Decoder architecture capable of augmenting decompiled code with variable names and types by leveraging decompiler output tokens and variable size information. Chen et al. were able to demonstrate a substantial increase in name and type extraction accuracy on Hex-Rays decompiler outputs compared to existing static analysis and AI-based techniques. We extend the original DIRTY results by re-training the DIRTY model on a dataset produced by the open-source Ghidra decompiler. Although Chen et al. concluded that Ghidra was not a suitable decompiler candidate due to its difficulty in parsing and incorporating DWARF symbols during analysis, we demonstrate that straightforward parsing of variable data generated by Ghidra results in similar retyping performance. We hope this work inspires further interest and adoption of the Ghidra decompiler for use in research projects. 

**Title:** Harnessing the Spatial-Temporal Attention of Diffusion Models for  High-Fidelity Text-to-Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03869

**Abstract:** Diffusion-based models have achieved state-of-the-art performance on text-to-image synthesis tasks. However, one critical limitation of these models is the low fidelity of generated images with respect to the text description, such as missing objects, mismatched attributes, and mislocated objects. One key reason for such inconsistencies is the inaccurate cross-attention to text in both the spatial dimension, which controls at what pixel region an object should appear, and the temporal dimension, which controls how different levels of details are added through the denoising steps. In this paper, we propose a new text-to-image algorithm that adds explicit control over spatial-temporal cross-attention in diffusion models. We first utilize a layout predictor to predict the pixel regions for objects mentioned in the text. We then impose spatial attention control by combining the attention over the entire text description and that over the local description of the particular object in the corresponding pixel region of that object. The temporal attention control is further added by allowing the combination weights to change at each denoising step, and the combination weights are optimized to ensure high fidelity between the image and the text. Experiments show that our method generates images with higher fidelity compared to diffusion-model-based baselines without fine-tuning the diffusion model. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/UCSB-NLP-Chang/Diffusion-SpaceTime-Attn. 

**Title:** GPT4Rec: A Generative Framework for Personalized Recommendation and User  Interests Interpretation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03879

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP) have led to the development of NLP-based recommender systems that have shown superior performance. However, current models commonly treat items as mere IDs and adopt discriminative modeling, resulting in limitations of (1) fully leveraging the content information of items and the language modeling capabilities of NLP models; (2) interpreting user interests to improve relevance and diversity; and (3) adapting practical circumstances such as growing item inventories. To address these limitations, we present GPT4Rec, a novel and flexible generative framework inspired by search engines. It first generates hypothetical "search queries" given item titles in a user's history, and then retrieves items for recommendation by searching these queries. The framework overcomes previous limitations by learning both user and item embeddings in the language space. To well-capture user interests with different aspects and granularity for improving relevance and diversity, we propose a multi-query generation technique with beam search. The generated queries naturally serve as interpretable representations of user interests and can be searched to recommend cold-start items. With GPT-2 language model and BM25 search engine, our framework outperforms state-of-the-art methods by $75.7\%$ and $22.2\%$ in Recall@K on two public datasets. Experiments further revealed that multi-query generation with beam search improves both the diversity of retrieved items and the coverage of a user's multi-interests. The adaptiveness and interpretability of generated queries are discussed with qualitative case studies. 

**Title:** Towards Automated Urban Planning: When Generative and ChatGPT-like AI  Meets Urban Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03892

**Abstract:** The two fields of urban planning and artificial intelligence (AI) arose and developed separately. However, there is now cross-pollination and increasing interest in both fields to benefit from the advances of the other. In the present paper, we introduce the importance of urban planning from the sustainability, living, economic, disaster, and environmental perspectives. We review the fundamental concepts of urban planning and relate these concepts to crucial open problems of machine learning, including adversarial learning, generative neural networks, deep encoder-decoder networks, conversational AI, and geospatial and temporal machine learning, thereby assaying how AI can contribute to modern urban planning. Thus, a central problem is automated land-use configuration, which is formulated as the generation of land uses and building configuration for a target area from surrounding geospatial, human mobility, social media, environment, and economic activities. Finally, we delineate some implications of AI for urban planning and propose key research areas at the intersection of both topics. 

**Title:** ChatGPT Empowered Long-Step Robot Control in Various Environments: A  Case Application  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03893

**Abstract:** This paper demonstrates how OpenAI's ChatGPT can be used in a few-shot setting to convert natural language instructions into an executable robot action sequence. The paper proposes easy-to-customize input prompts for ChatGPT that meet common requirements in practical applications, such as easy integration with robot execution systems and applicability to various environments. The prompts encourage ChatGPT to output a sequence of predefined robot actions, represent the operating environment in a formalized style, and infer the updated state of the operating environment. Experiments confirmed that the proposed prompts enable ChatGPT to act according to requirements in various environments, and users can modify ChatGPT's output using natural language for safe and robust operation. The proposed prompts and source code are open-source and publicly available at https://github.com/microsoft/ChatGPT-Robot-Manipulation-Prompts 

**Title:** Factify 2: A Multimodal Fake News and Satire News Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03897

**Abstract:** The internet gives the world an open platform to express their views and share their stories. While this is very valuable, it makes fake news one of our society's most pressing problems. Manual fact checking process is time consuming, which makes it challenging to disprove misleading assertions before they cause significant harm. This is he driving interest in automatic fact or claim verification. Some of the existing datasets aim to support development of automating fact-checking techniques, however, most of them are text based. Multi-modal fact verification has received relatively scant attention. In this paper, we provide a multi-modal fact-checking dataset called FACTIFY 2, improving Factify 1 by using new data sources and adding satire articles. Factify 2 has 50,000 new data instances. Similar to FACTIFY 1.0, we have three broad categories - support, no-evidence, and refute, with sub-categories based on the entailment of visual and textual data. We also provide a BERT and Vison Transformer based baseline, which acheives 65% F1 score in the test set. The baseline codes and the dataset will be made available at https://github.com/surya1701/Factify-2.0. 

**Title:** Mitigating Spurious Correlations in Multi-modal Models during  Fine-tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03916

**Abstract:** Spurious correlations that degrade model generalization or lead the model to be right for the wrong reasons are one of the main robustness concerns for real-world deployments. However, mitigating these correlations during pre-training for large-scale models can be costly and impractical, particularly for those without access to high-performance computing resources. This paper proposes a novel approach to address spurious correlations during fine-tuning for a given domain of interest. With a focus on multi-modal models (e.g., CLIP), the proposed method leverages different modalities in these models to detect and explicitly set apart spurious attributes from the affected class, achieved through a multi-modal contrastive loss function that expresses spurious relationships through language. Our experimental results and in-depth visualizations on CLIP show that such an intervention can effectively i) improve the model's accuracy when spurious attributes are not present, and ii) directs the model's activation maps towards the actual class rather than the spurious attribute when present. In particular, on the Waterbirds dataset, our algorithm achieved a worst-group accuracy 23% higher than ERM on CLIP with a ResNet-50 backbone, and 32% higher on CLIP with a ViT backbone, while maintaining the same average accuracy as ERM. 

**Title:** 3D GANs and Latent Space: A comprehensive survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03932

**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have emerged as a significant player in generative modeling by mapping lower-dimensional random noise to higher-dimensional spaces. These networks have been used to generate high-resolution images and 3D objects. The efficient modeling of 3D objects and human faces is crucial in the development process of 3D graphical environments such as games or simulations. 3D GANs are a new type of generative model used for 3D reconstruction, point cloud reconstruction, and 3D semantic scene completion. The choice of distribution for noise is critical as it represents the latent space. Understanding a GAN's latent space is essential for fine-tuning the generated samples, as demonstrated by the morphing of semantically meaningful parts of images. In this work, we explore the latent space and 3D GANs, examine several GAN variants and training methods to gain insights into improving 3D GAN training, and suggest potential future directions for further research. 

**Title:** PVD-AL: Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning for  Efficient Conversion Between Different NeRF Architectures  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04012

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been widely adopted as practical and versatile representations for 3D scenes, facilitating various downstream tasks. However, different architectures, including plain Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), Tensors, low-rank Tensors, Hashtables, and their compositions, have their trade-offs. For instance, Hashtables-based representations allow for faster rendering but lack clear geometric meaning, making spatial-relation-aware editing challenging. To address this limitation and maximize the potential of each architecture, we propose Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning (PVD-AL), a systematic distillation method that enables any-to-any conversions between different architectures. PVD-AL decomposes each structure into two parts and progressively performs distillation from shallower to deeper volume representation, leveraging effective information retrieved from the rendering process. Additionally, a Three-Levels of active learning technique provides continuous feedback during the distillation process, resulting in high-performance results. Empirical evidence is presented to validate our method on multiple benchmark datasets. For example, PVD-AL can distill an MLP-based model from a Hashtables-based model at a 10~20X faster speed and 0.8dB~2dB higher PSNR than training the NeRF model from scratch. Moreover, PVD-AL permits the fusion of diverse features among distinct structures, enabling models with multiple editing properties and providing a more efficient model to meet real-time requirements. Project website:

**Title:** tmn at SemEval-2023 Task 9: Multilingual Tweet Intimacy Detection using  XLM-T, Google Translate, and Ensemble Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04054

**Abstract:** The paper describes a transformer-based system designed for SemEval-2023 Task 9: Multilingual Tweet Intimacy Analysis. The purpose of the task was to predict the intimacy of tweets in a range from 1 (not intimate at all) to 5 (very intimate). The official training set for the competition consisted of tweets in six languages (English, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, French, and Chinese). The test set included the given six languages as well as external data with four languages not presented in the training set (Hindi, Arabic, Dutch, and Korean). We presented a solution based on an ensemble of XLM-T, a multilingual RoBERTa model adapted to the Twitter domain. To improve the performance of unseen languages, each tweet was supplemented by its English translation. We explored the effectiveness of translated data for the languages seen in fine-tuning compared to unseen languages and estimated strategies for using translated data in transformer-based models. Our solution ranked 4th on the leaderboard while achieving an overall Pearson's r of 0.599 over the test set. The proposed system improves up to 0.088 Pearson's r over a score averaged across all 45 submissions. 

**Title:** Towards Open-Scenario Semi-supervised Medical Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04059

**Abstract:** Semi-supervised learning (SSL) has attracted much attention since it reduces the expensive costs of collecting adequate well-labeled training data, especially for deep learning methods. However, traditional SSL is built upon an assumption that labeled and unlabeled data should be from the same distribution e.g., classes and domains. However, in practical scenarios, unlabeled data would be from unseen classes or unseen domains, and it is still challenging to exploit them by existing SSL methods. Therefore, in this paper, we proposed a unified framework to leverage these unseen unlabeled data for open-scenario semi-supervised medical image classification. We first design a novel scoring mechanism, called dual-path outliers estimation, to identify samples from unseen classes. Meanwhile, to extract unseen-domain samples, we then apply an effective variational autoencoder (VAE) pre-training. After that, we conduct domain adaptation to fully exploit the value of the detected unseen-domain samples to boost semi-supervised training. We evaluated our proposed framework on dermatology and ophthalmology tasks. Extensive experiments demonstrate our model can achieve superior classification performance in various medical SSL scenarios. 

**Title:** Interpretable Multi Labeled Bengali Toxic Comments Classification using  Deep Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04087

**Abstract:** This paper presents a deep learning-based pipeline for categorizing Bengali toxic comments, in which at first a binary classification model is used to determine whether a comment is toxic or not, and then a multi-label classifier is employed to determine which toxicity type the comment belongs to. For this purpose, we have prepared a manually labeled dataset consisting of 16,073 instances among which 8,488 are Toxic and any toxic comment may correspond to one or more of the six toxic categories - vulgar, hate, religious, threat, troll, and insult simultaneously. Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) with BERT Embedding achieved 89.42% accuracy for the binary classification task while as a multi-label classifier, a combination of Convolutional Neural Network and Bi-directional Long Short Term Memory (CNN-BiLSTM) with attention mechanism achieved 78.92% accuracy and 0.86 as weighted F1-score. To explain the predictions and interpret the word feature importance during classification by the proposed models, we utilized Local Interpretable Model-Agnostic Explanations (LIME) framework. We have made our dataset public and can be accessed at - https://github.com/deepu099cse/Multi-Labeled-Bengali-Toxic-Comments-Classification 

**Title:** PDViz: a Visual Analytics Approach for State Policy Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04090

**Abstract:** Sub-national governments across the United States implement a variety of policies to address large societal problems and needs. Many policies are picked up or adopted in other states. This process is called policy diffusion and allows researchers to analyze and compare social, political, and contextual characteristics that lead to adopting certain policies, as well as the efficacy of these policies once adopted. In this paper, we introduce PDViz, a visual analytics approach for social scientists to dynamically analyze the policy diffusion history and underlying patterns. It is designed for analyzing and answering a list of research questions and tasks posed by social scientists in prior work. To evaluate our system, we present two usage scenarios and conduct interviews with domain experts in political science. The interviews highlight that PDViz provides the result of policy diffusion patterns that align with their domain knowledge as well as the potential to be a learning tool for students and researchers to understand the concept of policy diffusion. 

**Title:** TC-VAE: Uncovering Out-of-Distribution Data Generative Factors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04103

**Abstract:** Uncovering data generative factors is the ultimate goal of disentanglement learning. Although many works proposed disentangling generative models able to uncover the underlying generative factors of a dataset, so far no one was able to uncover OOD generative factors (i.e., factors of variations that are not explicitly shown on the dataset). Moreover, the datasets used to validate these models are synthetically generated using a balanced mixture of some predefined generative factors, implicitly assuming that generative factors are uniformly distributed across the datasets. However, real datasets do not present this property. In this work we analyse the effect of using datasets with unbalanced generative factors, providing qualitative and quantitative results for widely used generative models. Moreover, we propose TC-VAE, a generative model optimized using a lower bound of the joint total correlation between the learned latent representations and the input data. We show that the proposed model is able to uncover OOD generative factors on different datasets and outperforms on average the related baselines in terms of downstream disentanglement metrics. 

**Title:** Multi-class Categorization of Reasons behind Mental Disturbance in Long  Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04118

**Abstract:** Motivated with recent advances in inferring users' mental state in social media posts, we identify and formulate the problem of finding causal indicators behind mental illness in self-reported text. In the past, we witness the presence of rule-based studies for causal explanation analysis on curated Facebook data. The investigation on transformer-based model for multi-class causal categorization in Reddit posts point to a problem of using long-text which contains as many as 4000 words. Developing end-to-end transformer-based models subject to the limitation of maximum-length in a given instance. To handle this problem, we use Longformer and deploy its encoding on transformer-based classifier. The experimental results show that Longformer achieves new state-of-the-art results on M-CAMS, a publicly available dataset with 62\% F1-score. Cause-specific analysis and ablation study prove the effectiveness of Longformer. We believe our work facilitates causal analysis of depression and suicide risk on social media data, and shows potential for application on other mental health conditions. 

**Title:** Surrogate Lagrangian Relaxation: A Path To Retrain-free Deep Neural  Network Pruning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04120

**Abstract:** Network pruning is a widely used technique to reduce computation cost and model size for deep neural networks. However, the typical three-stage pipeline significantly increases the overall training time. In this paper, we develop a systematic weight-pruning optimization approach based on Surrogate Lagrangian relaxation, which is tailored to overcome difficulties caused by the discrete nature of the weight-pruning problem. We prove that our method ensures fast convergence of the model compression problem, and the convergence of the SLR is accelerated by using quadratic penalties. Model parameters obtained by SLR during the training phase are much closer to their optimal values as compared to those obtained by other state-of-the-art methods. We evaluate our method on image classification tasks using CIFAR-10 and ImageNet with state-of-the-art MLP-Mixer, Swin Transformer, and VGG-16, ResNet-18, ResNet-50 and ResNet-110, MobileNetV2. We also evaluate object detection and segmentation tasks on COCO, KITTI benchmark, and TuSimple lane detection dataset using a variety of models. Experimental results demonstrate that our SLR-based weight-pruning optimization approach achieves a higher compression rate than state-of-the-art methods under the same accuracy requirement and also can achieve higher accuracy under the same compression rate requirement. Under classification tasks, our SLR approach converges to the desired accuracy $3\times$ faster on both of the datasets. Under object detection and segmentation tasks, SLR also converges $2\times$ faster to the desired accuracy. Further, our SLR achieves high model accuracy even at the hard-pruning stage without retraining, which reduces the traditional three-stage pruning into a two-stage process. Given a limited budget of retraining epochs, our approach quickly recovers the model's accuracy. 

**Title:** NeRF applied to satellite imagery for surface reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04133

**Abstract:** We present Sat-NeRF, a modified implementation of the recently introduced Shadow Neural Radiance Field (S-NeRF) model. This method is able to synthesize novel views from a sparse set of satellite images of a scene, while accounting for the variation in lighting present in the pictures. The trained model can also be used to accurately estimate the surface elevation of the scene, which is often a desirable quantity for satellite observation applications. S-NeRF improves on the standard Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) method by considering the radiance as a function of the albedo and the irradiance. Both these quantities are output by fully connected neural network branches of the model, and the latter is considered as a function of the direct light from the sun and the diffuse color from the sky. The implementations were run on a dataset of satellite images, augmented using a zoom-and-crop technique. A hyperparameter study for NeRF was carried out, leading to intriguing observations on the model's convergence. Finally, both NeRF and S-NeRF were run until 100k epochs in order to fully fit the data and produce their best possible predictions. The code related to this article can be found at https://github.gatech.edu/fsemeraro6/satnerf. 

**Title:** CCLAP: Controllable Chinese Landscape Painting Generation via Latent  Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04156

**Abstract:** With the development of deep generative models, recent years have seen great success of Chinese landscape painting generation. However, few works focus on controllable Chinese landscape painting generation due to the lack of data and limited modeling capabilities. In this work, we propose a controllable Chinese landscape painting generation method named CCLAP, which can generate painting with specific content and style based on Latent Diffusion Model. Specifically, it consists of two cascaded modules, i.e., content generator and style aggregator. The content generator module guarantees the content of generated paintings specific to the input text. While the style aggregator module is to generate paintings of a style corresponding to a reference image. Moreover, a new dataset of Chinese landscape paintings named CLAP is collected for comprehensive evaluation. Both the qualitative and quantitative results demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance, especially in artfully-composed and artistic conception. Codes are available at https://github.com/Robin-WZQ/CCLAP. 

**Title:** Learning to Tokenize for Generative Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04171

**Abstract:** Conventional document retrieval techniques are mainly based on the index-retrieve paradigm. It is challenging to optimize pipelines based on this paradigm in an end-to-end manner. As an alternative, generative retrieval represents documents as identifiers (docid) and retrieves documents by generating docids, enabling end-to-end modeling of document retrieval tasks. However, it is an open question how one should define the document identifiers. Current approaches to the task of defining document identifiers rely on fixed rule-based docids, such as the title of a document or the result of clustering BERT embeddings, which often fail to capture the complete semantic information of a document. We propose GenRet, a document tokenization learning method to address the challenge of defining document identifiers for generative retrieval. GenRet learns to tokenize documents into short discrete representations (i.e., docids) via a discrete auto-encoding approach. Three components are included in GenRet: (i) a tokenization model that produces docids for documents; (ii) a reconstruction model that learns to reconstruct a document based on a docid; and (iii) a sequence-to-sequence retrieval model that generates relevant document identifiers directly for a designated query. By using an auto-encoding framework, GenRet learns semantic docids in a fully end-to-end manner. We also develop a progressive training scheme to capture the autoregressive nature of docids and to stabilize training. We conduct experiments on the NQ320K, MS MARCO, and BEIR datasets to assess the effectiveness of GenRet. GenRet establishes the new state-of-the-art on the NQ320K dataset. Especially, compared to generative retrieval baselines, GenRet can achieve significant improvements on the unseen documents. GenRet also outperforms comparable baselines on MS MARCO and BEIR, demonstrating the method's generalizability. 

**Title:** Token Boosting for Robust Self-Supervised Visual Transformer  Pre-training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04175

**Abstract:** Learning with large-scale unlabeled data has become a powerful tool for pre-training Visual Transformers (VTs). However, prior works tend to overlook that, in real-world scenarios, the input data may be corrupted and unreliable. Pre-training VTs on such corrupted data can be challenging, especially when we pre-train via the masked autoencoding approach, where both the inputs and masked ``ground truth" targets can potentially be unreliable in this case. To address this limitation, we introduce the Token Boosting Module (TBM) as a plug-and-play component for VTs that effectively allows the VT to learn to extract clean and robust features during masked autoencoding pre-training. We provide theoretical analysis to show how TBM improves model pre-training with more robust and generalizable representations, thus benefiting downstream tasks. We conduct extensive experiments to analyze TBM's effectiveness, and results on four corrupted datasets demonstrate that TBM consistently improves performance on downstream tasks. 

**Title:** Sparse Dense Fusion for 3D Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04179

**Abstract:** With the prevalence of multimodal learning, camera-LiDAR fusion has gained popularity in 3D object detection. Although multiple fusion approaches have been proposed, they can be classified into either sparse-only or dense-only fashion based on the feature representation in the fusion module. In this paper, we analyze them in a common taxonomy and thereafter observe two challenges: 1) sparse-only solutions preserve 3D geometric prior and yet lose rich semantic information from the camera, and 2) dense-only alternatives retain the semantic continuity but miss the accurate geometric information from LiDAR. By analyzing these two formulations, we conclude that the information loss is inevitable due to their design scheme. To compensate for the information loss in either manner, we propose Sparse Dense Fusion (SDF), a complementary framework that incorporates both sparse-fusion and dense-fusion modules via the Transformer architecture. Such a simple yet effective sparse-dense fusion structure enriches semantic texture and exploits spatial structure information simultaneously. Through our SDF strategy, we assemble two popular methods with moderate performance and outperform baseline by 4.3% in mAP and 2.5% in NDS, ranking first on the nuScenes benchmark. Extensive ablations demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and empirically align our analysis. 

**Title:** Extractive Summarization via ChatGPT for Faithful Summary Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04193

**Abstract:** Extractive summarization is a crucial task in natural language processing that aims to condense long documents into shorter versions by directly extracting sentences. The recent introduction of ChatGPT has attracted significant interest in the NLP community due to its remarkable performance on a wide range of downstream tasks. However, concerns regarding factuality and faithfulness have hindered its practical applications for summarization systems. This paper first presents a thorough evaluation of ChatGPT's performance on extractive summarization and compares it with traditional fine-tuning methods on various benchmark datasets. Our experimental analysis reveals that ChatGPT's extractive summarization performance is still inferior to existing supervised systems in terms of ROUGE scores. In addition, we explore the effectiveness of in-context learning and chain-of-thought reasoning for enhancing its performance. Furthermore, we find that applying an extract-then-generate pipeline with ChatGPT yields significant performance improvements over abstractive baselines in terms of summary faithfulness. These observations highlight potential directions for enhancing ChatGPT's capabilities for faithful text summarization tasks using two-stage approaches. 

**Title:** Transformer Utilization in Medical Image Segmentation Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04225

**Abstract:** Owing to success in the data-rich domain of natural images, Transformers have recently become popular in medical image segmentation. However, the pairing of Transformers with convolutional blocks in varying architectural permutations leaves their relative effectiveness to open interpretation. We introduce Transformer Ablations that replace the Transformer blocks with plain linear operators to quantify this effectiveness. With experiments on 8 models on 2 medical image segmentation tasks, we explore -- 1) the replaceable nature of Transformer-learnt representations, 2) Transformer capacity alone cannot prevent representational replaceability and works in tandem with effective design, 3) The mere existence of explicit feature hierarchies in transformer blocks is more beneficial than accompanying self-attention modules, 4) Major spatial downsampling before Transformer modules should be used with caution. 

**Title:** Video ChatCaptioner: Towards the Enriched Spatiotemporal Descriptions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04227

**Abstract:** Video captioning aims to convey dynamic scenes from videos using natural language, facilitating the understanding of spatiotemporal information within our environment. Although there have been recent advances, generating detailed and enriched video descriptions continues to be a substantial challenge. In this work, we introduce Video ChatCaptioner, an innovative approach for creating more comprehensive spatiotemporal video descriptions. Our method employs a ChatGPT model as a controller, specifically designed to select frames for posing video content-driven questions. Subsequently, a robust algorithm is utilized to answer these visual queries. This question-answer framework effectively uncovers intricate video details and shows promise as a method for enhancing video content. Following multiple conversational rounds, ChatGPT can summarize enriched video content based on previous conversations. We qualitatively demonstrate that our Video ChatCaptioner can generate captions containing more visual details about the videos. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/Vision-CAIR/ChatCaptioner 

**Title:** CrowdCLIP: Unsupervised Crowd Counting via Vision-Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04231

**Abstract:** Supervised crowd counting relies heavily on costly manual labeling, which is difficult and expensive, especially in dense scenes. To alleviate the problem, we propose a novel unsupervised framework for crowd counting, named CrowdCLIP. The core idea is built on two observations: 1) the recent contrastive pre-trained vision-language model (CLIP) has presented impressive performance on various downstream tasks; 2) there is a natural mapping between crowd patches and count text. To the best of our knowledge, CrowdCLIP is the first to investigate the vision language knowledge to solve the counting problem. Specifically, in the training stage, we exploit the multi-modal ranking loss by constructing ranking text prompts to match the size-sorted crowd patches to guide the image encoder learning. In the testing stage, to deal with the diversity of image patches, we propose a simple yet effective progressive filtering strategy to first select the highly potential crowd patches and then map them into the language space with various counting intervals. Extensive experiments on five challenging datasets demonstrate that the proposed CrowdCLIP achieves superior performance compared to previous unsupervised state-of-the-art counting methods. Notably, CrowdCLIP even surpasses some popular fully-supervised methods under the cross-dataset setting. The source code will be available at https://github.com/dk-liang/CrowdCLIP. 

**Title:** Slide-Transformer: Hierarchical Vision Transformer with Local  Self-Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04237

**Abstract:** Self-attention mechanism has been a key factor in the recent progress of Vision Transformer (ViT), which enables adaptive feature extraction from global contexts. However, existing self-attention methods either adopt sparse global attention or window attention to reduce the computation complexity, which may compromise the local feature learning or subject to some handcrafted designs. In contrast, local attention, which restricts the receptive field of each query to its own neighboring pixels, enjoys the benefits of both convolution and self-attention, namely local inductive bias and dynamic feature selection. Nevertheless, current local attention modules either use inefficient Im2Col function or rely on specific CUDA kernels that are hard to generalize to devices without CUDA support. In this paper, we propose a novel local attention module, Slide Attention, which leverages common convolution operations to achieve high efficiency, flexibility and generalizability. Specifically, we first re-interpret the column-based Im2Col function from a new row-based perspective and use Depthwise Convolution as an efficient substitution. On this basis, we propose a deformed shifting module based on the re-parameterization technique, which further relaxes the fixed key/value positions to deformed features in the local region. In this way, our module realizes the local attention paradigm in both efficient and flexible manner. Extensive experiments show that our slide attention module is applicable to a variety of advanced Vision Transformer models and compatible with various hardware devices, and achieves consistently improved performances on comprehensive benchmarks. Code is available at https://github.com/LeapLabTHU/Slide-Transformer. 

**Title:** A Preliminary Evaluation of ChatGPT for Zero-shot Dialogue Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04256

**Abstract:** Zero-shot dialogue understanding aims to enable dialogue to track the user's needs without any training data, which has gained increasing attention. In this work, we investigate the understanding ability of ChatGPT for zero-shot dialogue understanding tasks including spoken language understanding (SLU) and dialogue state tracking (DST). Experimental results on four popular benchmarks reveal the great potential of ChatGPT for zero-shot dialogue understanding. In addition, extensive analysis shows that ChatGPT benefits from the multi-turn interactive prompt in the DST task but struggles to perform slot filling for SLU. Finally, we summarize several unexpected behaviors of ChatGPT in dialogue understanding tasks, hoping to provide some insights for future research on building zero-shot dialogue understanding systems with Large Language Models (LLMs). 

**Title:** A Comprehensive Survey on Knowledge Distillation of Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04262

**Abstract:** Diffusion Models (DMs), also referred to as score-based diffusion models, utilize neural networks to specify score functions. Unlike most other probabilistic models, DMs directly model the score functions, which makes them more flexible to parametrize and potentially highly expressive for probabilistic modeling. DMs can learn fine-grained knowledge, i.e., marginal score functions, of the underlying distribution. Therefore, a crucial research direction is to explore how to distill the knowledge of DMs and fully utilize their potential. Our objective is to provide a comprehensible overview of the modern approaches for distilling DMs, starting with an introduction to DMs and a discussion of the challenges involved in distilling them into neural vector fields. We also provide an overview of the existing works on distilling DMs into both stochastic and deterministic implicit generators. Finally, we review the accelerated diffusion sampling algorithms as a training-free method for distillation. Our tutorial is intended for individuals with a basic understanding of generative models who wish to apply DM's distillation or embark on a research project in this field. 

**Title:** RGB-T Tracking Based on Mixed Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04264

**Abstract:** RGB-T tracking involves the use of images from both visible and thermal modalities. The primary objective is to adaptively lever-age the relatively dominant modality in varying conditions to achieve more robust tracking compared to single-modality track-ing. An RGB-T tracker based on mixed attention mechanism to achieve complementary fusion of modalities (referred to as MACFT) is proposed in this paper. In the feature extraction stage, we utilize different transformer backbone branches to extract specific and shared information from different modali-ties. By performing mixed attention operations in the backbone to enable information interaction and self-enhancement between the template and search images, it constructs a robust feature representation that better understands the high-level semantic features of the target. Then, in the feature fusion stage, a modal-ity-adaptive fusion is achieved through a mixed attention-based modality fusion network, which suppresses the low-quality mo-dality noise while enhancing the information of the dominant modality. Evaluation on multiple RGB-T public datasets demon-strates that our proposed tracker outperforms other RGB-T trackers on general evaluation metrics while also being able to adapt to long-term tracking scenarios. 

**Title:** HumanSD: A Native Skeleton-Guided Diffusion Model for Human Image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04269

**Abstract:** Controllable human image generation (HIG) has numerous real-life applications. State-of-the-art solutions, such as ControlNet and T2I-Adapter, introduce an additional learnable branch on top of the frozen pre-trained stable diffusion (SD) model, which can enforce various conditions, including skeleton guidance of HIG. While such a plug-and-play approach is appealing, the inevitable and uncertain conflicts between the original images produced from the frozen SD branch and the given condition incur significant challenges for the learnable branch, which essentially conducts image feature editing for condition enforcement. In this work, we propose a native skeleton-guided diffusion model for controllable HIG called HumanSD. Instead of performing image editing with dual-branch diffusion, we fine-tune the original SD model using a novel heatmap-guided denoising loss. This strategy effectively and efficiently strengthens the given skeleton condition during model training while mitigating the catastrophic forgetting effects. HumanSD is fine-tuned on the assembly of three large-scale human-centric datasets with text-image-pose information, two of which are established in this work. As shown in Figure 1, HumanSD outperforms ControlNet in terms of accurate pose control and image quality, particularly when the given skeleton guidance is sophisticated. 

**Title:** Distributed Conditional GAN (discGAN) For Synthetic Healthcare Data  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04290

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a distributed Generative Adversarial Networks (discGANs) to generate synthetic tabular data specific to the healthcare domain. While using GANs to generate images has been well studied, little to no attention has been given to generation of tabular data. Modeling distributions of discrete and continuous tabular data is a non-trivial task with high utility. We applied discGAN to model non-Gaussian multi-modal healthcare data. We generated 249,000 synthetic records from original 2,027 eICU dataset. We evaluated the performance of the model using machine learning efficacy, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) test for continuous variables and chi-squared test for discrete variables. Our results show that discGAN was able to generate data with distributions similar to the real data. 

**Title:** ForamViT-GAN: Exploring New Paradigms in Deep Learning for  Micropaleontological Image Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04291

**Abstract:** Micropaleontology in geosciences focuses on studying the evolution of microfossils (e.g., foraminifera) through geological records to reconstruct past environmental and climatic conditions. This field heavily relies on visual recognition of microfossil features, making it suitable for computer vision technology, specifically deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs), to automate and optimize microfossil identification and classification. However, the application of deep learning in micropaleontology is hindered by limited availability of high-quality, high-resolution labeled fossil images and the significant manual labeling effort required by experts. To address these challenges, we propose a novel deep learning workflow combining hierarchical vision transformers with style-based generative adversarial network algorithms to efficiently acquire and synthetically generate realistic high-resolution labeled datasets of micropaleontology in large volumes. Our study shows that this workflow can generate high-resolution images with a high signal-to-noise ratio (39.1 dB) and realistic synthetic images with a Frechet inception distance similarity score of 14.88. Additionally, our workflow provides a large volume of self-labeled datasets for model benchmarking and various downstream visual tasks, including fossil classification and segmentation. For the first time, we performed few-shot semantic segmentation of different foraminifera chambers on both generated and synthetic images with high accuracy. This novel meta-learning approach is only possible with the availability of high-resolution, high-volume labeled datasets. Our deep learning-based workflow shows promise in advancing and optimizing micropaleontological research and other visual-dependent geological analyses. 

**Title:** Is ChatGPT a Good Sentiment Analyzer? A Preliminary Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04339

**Abstract:** Recently, ChatGPT has drawn great attention from both the research community and the public. We are particularly curious about whether it can serve as a universal sentiment analyzer. To this end, in this work, we provide a preliminary evaluation of ChatGPT on the understanding of opinions, sentiments, and emotions contained in the text. Specifically, we evaluate it in four settings, including standard evaluation, polarity shift evaluation, open-domain evaluation, and sentiment inference evaluation. The above evaluation involves 18 benchmark datasets and 5 representative sentiment analysis tasks, and we compare ChatGPT with fine-tuned BERT and corresponding state-of-the-art (SOTA) models on end-task. Moreover, we also conduct human evaluation and present some qualitative case studies to gain a deep comprehension of its sentiment analysis capabilities. 

**Title:** Towards Real-time Text-driven Image Manipulation with Unconditional  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04344

**Abstract:** Recent advances in diffusion models enable many powerful instruments for image editing. One of these instruments is text-driven image manipulations: editing semantic attributes of an image according to the provided text description. % Popular text-conditional diffusion models offer various high-quality image manipulation methods for a broad range of text prompts. Existing diffusion-based methods already achieve high-quality image manipulations for a broad range of text prompts. However, in practice, these methods require high computation costs even with a high-end GPU. This greatly limits potential real-world applications of diffusion-based image editing, especially when running on user devices. 

**Title:** ITportrait: Image-Text Coupled 3D Portrait Domain Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04364

**Abstract:** Domain adaptation of 3D portraits has gained more and more attention. However, the transfer mechanism of existing methods is mainly based on vision or language, which ignores the potential of vision-language combined guidance. In this paper, we propose a vision-language coupled 3D portraits domain adaptation framework, namely Image and Text portrait (ITportrait). ITportrait relies on a two-stage alternating training strategy. In the first stage, we employ a 3D Artistic Paired Transfer (APT) method for image-guided style transfer. APT constructs paired photo-realistic portraits to obtain accurate artistic poses, which helps ITportrait to achieve high-quality 3D style transfer. In the second stage, we propose a 3D Image-Text Embedding (ITE) approach in the CLIP space. ITE uses a threshold function to adaptively control the optimization direction of image or text in the CLIP space. Comprehensive quantitative and qualitative results show that our ITportrait achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) results and benefits downstream tasks. All source codes and pre-trained models will be released to the public. 

**Title:** Instance Neural Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04395

**Abstract:** This paper presents one of the first learning-based NeRF 3D instance segmentation pipelines, dubbed as Instance Neural Radiance Field, or Instance NeRF. Taking a NeRF pretrained from multi-view RGB images as input, Instance NeRF can learn 3D instance segmentation of a given scene, represented as an instance field component of the NeRF model. To this end, we adopt a 3D proposal-based mask prediction network on the sampled volumetric features from NeRF, which generates discrete 3D instance masks. The coarse 3D mask prediction is then projected to image space to match 2D segmentation masks from different views generated by existing panoptic segmentation models, which are used to supervise the training of the instance field. Notably, beyond generating consistent 2D segmentation maps from novel views, Instance NeRF can query instance information at any 3D point, which greatly enhances NeRF object segmentation and manipulation. Our method is also one of the first to achieve such results without ground-truth instance information during inference. Experimented on synthetic and real-world NeRF datasets with complex indoor scenes, Instance NeRF surpasses previous NeRF segmentation works and competitive 2D segmentation methods in segmentation performance on unseen views. See the demo video at https://youtu.be/wW9Bme73coI. 

**Title:** High Dynamic Range Imaging with Context-aware Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04416

**Abstract:** Avoiding the introduction of ghosts when synthesising LDR images as high dynamic range (HDR) images is a challenging task. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are effective for HDR ghost removal in general, but are challenging to deal with the LDR images if there are large movements or oversaturation/undersaturation. Existing dual-branch methods combining CNN and Transformer omit part of the information from non-reference images, while the features extracted by the CNN-based branch are bound to the kernel size with small receptive field, which are detrimental to the deblurring and the recovery of oversaturated/undersaturated regions. In this paper, we propose a novel hierarchical dual Transformer method for ghost-free HDR (HDT-HDR) images generation, which extracts global features and local features simultaneously. First, we use a CNN-based head with spatial attention mechanisms to extract features from all the LDR images. Second, the LDR features are delivered to the Hierarchical Dual Transformer (HDT). In each Dual Transformer (DT), the global features are extracted by the window-based Transformer, while the local details are extracted using the channel attention mechanism with deformable CNNs. Finally, the ghost free HDR image is obtained by dimensional mapping on the HDT output. Abundant experiments demonstrate that our HDT-HDR achieves the state-of-the-art performance among existing HDR ghost removal methods. 

**Title:** Feature Representation Learning with Adaptive Displacement Generation  and Transformer Fusion for Micro-Expression Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04420

**Abstract:** Micro-expressions are spontaneous, rapid and subtle facial movements that can neither be forged nor suppressed. They are very important nonverbal communication clues, but are transient and of low intensity thus difficult to recognize. Recently deep learning based methods have been developed for micro-expression (ME) recognition using feature extraction and fusion techniques, however, targeted feature learning and efficient feature fusion still lack further study according to the ME characteristics. To address these issues, we propose a novel framework Feature Representation Learning with adaptive Displacement Generation and Transformer fusion (FRL-DGT), in which a convolutional Displacement Generation Module (DGM) with self-supervised learning is used to extract dynamic features from onset/apex frames targeted to the subsequent ME recognition task, and a well-designed Transformer Fusion mechanism composed of three Transformer-based fusion modules (local, global fusions based on AU regions and full-face fusion) is applied to extract the multi-level informative features after DGM for the final ME prediction. The extensive experiments with solid leave-one-subject-out (LOSO) evaluation results have demonstrated the superiority of our proposed FRL-DGT to state-of-the-art methods. 

**Title:** BerDiff: Conditional Bernoulli Diffusion Model for Medical Image  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04429

**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation is a challenging task with inherent ambiguity and high uncertainty, attributed to factors such as unclear tumor boundaries and multiple plausible annotations. The accuracy and diversity of segmentation masks are both crucial for providing valuable references to radiologists in clinical practice. While existing diffusion models have shown strong capacities in various visual generation tasks, it is still challenging to deal with discrete masks in segmentation. To achieve accurate and diverse medical image segmentation masks, we propose a novel conditional Bernoulli Diffusion model for medical image segmentation (BerDiff). Instead of using the Gaussian noise, we first propose to use the Bernoulli noise as the diffusion kernel to enhance the capacity of the diffusion model for binary segmentation tasks, resulting in more accurate segmentation masks. Second, by leveraging the stochastic nature of the diffusion model, our BerDiff randomly samples the initial Bernoulli noise and intermediate latent variables multiple times to produce a range of diverse segmentation masks, which can highlight salient regions of interest that can serve as valuable references for radiologists. In addition, our BerDiff can efficiently sample sub-sequences from the overall trajectory of the reverse diffusion, thereby speeding up the segmentation process. Extensive experimental results on two medical image segmentation datasets with different modalities demonstrate that our BerDiff outperforms other recently published state-of-the-art methods. Our results suggest diffusion models could serve as a strong backbone for medical image segmentation. 

**Title:** Inferring Fluid Dynamics via Inverse Rendering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04446

**Abstract:** Humans have a strong intuitive understanding of physical processes such as fluid falling by just a glimpse of such a scene picture, i.e., quickly derived from our immersive visual experiences in memory. This work achieves such a photo-to-fluid-dynamics reconstruction functionality learned from unannotated videos, without any supervision of ground-truth fluid dynamics. In a nutshell, a differentiable Euler simulator modeled with a ConvNet-based pressure projection solver, is integrated with a volumetric renderer, supporting end-to-end/coherent differentiable dynamic simulation and rendering. By endowing each sampled point with a fluid volume value, we derive a NeRF-like differentiable renderer dedicated from fluid data; and thanks to this volume-augmented representation, fluid dynamics could be inversely inferred from the error signal between the rendered result and ground-truth video frame (i.e., inverse rendering). Experiments on our generated Fluid Fall datasets and DPI Dam Break dataset are conducted to demonstrate both effectiveness and generalization ability of our method. 

**Title:** Towards Digital Nature: Bridging the Gap between Turing Machine Objects  and Linguistic Objects in LLMMs for Universal Interaction of Object-Oriented  Descriptions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04498

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a novel approach to establish a connection between linguistic objects and classes in Large Language Model Machines (LLMMs) such as GPT3.5 and GPT4, and their counterparts in high level programming languages like Python. Our goal is to promote the development of Digital Nature: a worldview where digital and physical realities are seamlessly intertwined and can be easily manipulated by computational means. To achieve this, we exploit the inherent abstraction capabilities of LLMMs to build a bridge between human perception of the real world and the computational processes that mimic it. This approach enables ambiguous class definitions and interactions between objects to be realized in programming and ubiquitous computing scenarios. By doing so, we aim to facilitate seamless interaction between Turing Machine objects and Linguistic Objects, paving the way for universally accessible object oriented descriptions. We demonstrate a method for automatically transforming real world objects and their corresponding simulations into language simulable worlds using LLMMs, thus advancing the digital twin concept. This process can then be extended to high level programming languages, making the implementation of these simulations more accessible and practical. In summary, our research introduces a groundbreaking approach to connect linguistic objects in LLMMs with high level programming languages, allowing for the efficient implementation of real world simulations. This ultimately contributes to the realization of Digital Nature, where digital and physical worlds are interconnected, and objects and simulations can be effortlessly manipulated through computational means. 

**Title:** Defense-Prefix for Preventing Typographic Attacks on CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04512

**Abstract:** Vision-language pre-training models (VLPs) have exhibited revolutionary improvements in various vision-language tasks. In VLP, some adversarial attacks fool a model into false or absurd classifications. Previous studies addressed these attacks by fine-tuning the model or changing its architecture. However, these methods risk losing the original model's performance and are difficult to apply to downstream tasks. In particular, their applicability to other tasks has not been considered. In this study, we addressed the reduction of the impact of typographic attacks on CLIP without changing the model parameters. To achieve this, we expand the idea of ``prefix learning'' and introduce our simple yet effective method: Defense-Prefix (DP), which inserts the DP token before a class name to make words ``robust'' against typographic attacks. Our method can be easily applied to downstream tasks, such as object detection, because the proposed method is independent of the model parameters. Our method significantly improves the accuracy of classification tasks for typographic attack datasets, while maintaining the zero-shot capabilities of the model. In addition, we leverage our proposed method for object detection, demonstrating its high applicability and effectiveness. The codes and datasets will be publicly available. 

**Title:** DetCLIPv2: Scalable Open-Vocabulary Object Detection Pre-training via  Word-Region Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04514

**Abstract:** This paper presents DetCLIPv2, an efficient and scalable training framework that incorporates large-scale image-text pairs to achieve open-vocabulary object detection (OVD). Unlike previous OVD frameworks that typically rely on a pre-trained vision-language model (e.g., CLIP) or exploit image-text pairs via a pseudo labeling process, DetCLIPv2 directly learns the fine-grained word-region alignment from massive image-text pairs in an end-to-end manner. To accomplish this, we employ a maximum word-region similarity between region proposals and textual words to guide the contrastive objective. To enable the model to gain localization capability while learning broad concepts, DetCLIPv2 is trained with a hybrid supervision from detection, grounding and image-text pair data under a unified data formulation. By jointly training with an alternating scheme and adopting low-resolution input for image-text pairs, DetCLIPv2 exploits image-text pair data efficiently and effectively: DetCLIPv2 utilizes 13X more image-text pairs than DetCLIP with a similar training time and improves performance. With 13M image-text pairs for pre-training, DetCLIPv2 demonstrates superior open-vocabulary detection performance, e.g., DetCLIPv2 with Swin-T backbone achieves 40.4% zero-shot AP on the LVIS benchmark, which outperforms previous works GLIP/GLIPv2/DetCLIP by 14.4/11.4/4.5% AP, respectively, and even beats its fully-supervised counterpart by a large margin. 

**Title:** Zero-Shot In-Distribution Detection in Multi-Object Settings Using  Vision-Language Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04521

**Abstract:** Removing out-of-distribution (OOD) images from noisy images scraped from the Internet is an important preprocessing for constructing datasets, which can be addressed by zero-shot OOD detection with vision language foundation models (CLIP). The existing zero-shot OOD detection setting does not consider the realistic case where an image has both in-distribution (ID) objects and OOD objects. However, it is important to identify such images as ID images when collecting the images of rare classes or ethically inappropriate classes that must not be missed. In this paper, we propose a novel problem setting called in-distribution (ID) detection, where we identify images containing ID objects as ID images, even if they contain OOD objects, and images lacking ID objects as OOD images. To solve this problem, we present a new approach, \textbf{G}lobal-\textbf{L}ocal \textbf{M}aximum \textbf{C}oncept \textbf{M}atching (GL-MCM), based on both global and local visual-text alignments of CLIP features, which can identify any image containing ID objects as ID images. Extensive experiments demonstrate that GL-MCM outperforms comparison methods on both multi-object datasets and single-object ImageNet benchmarks. 

**Title:** Deepfake Detection of Occluded Images Using a Patch-based Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04537

**Abstract:** DeepFake involves the use of deep learning and artificial intelligence techniques to produce or change video and image contents typically generated by GANs. Moreover, it can be misused and leads to fictitious news, ethical and financial crimes, and also affects the performance of facial recognition systems. Thus, detection of real or fake images is significant specially to authenticate originality of people's images or videos. One of the most important challenges in this topic is obstruction that decreases the system precision. In this study, we present a deep learning approach using the entire face and face patches to distinguish real/fake images in the presence of obstruction with a three-path decision: first entire-face reasoning, second a decision based on the concatenation of feature vectors of face patches, and third a majority vote decision based on these features. To test our approach, new datasets including real and fake images are created. For producing fake images, StyleGAN and StyleGAN2 are trained by FFHQ images and also StarGAN and PGGAN are trained by CelebA images. The CelebA and FFHQ datasets are used as real images. The proposed approach reaches higher results in early epochs than other methods and increases the SoTA results by 0.4\%-7.9\% in the different built data-sets. Also, we have shown in experimental results that weighing the patches may improve accuracy. 

**Title:** Sequential Recommendation with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04541

**Abstract:** Generative models, such as Variational Auto-Encoder (VAE) and Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), have been successfully applied in sequential recommendation. These methods require sampling from probability distributions and adopt auxiliary loss functions to optimize the model, which can capture the uncertainty of user behaviors and alleviate exposure bias. However, existing generative models still suffer from the posterior collapse problem or the model collapse problem, thus limiting their applications in sequential recommendation. To tackle the challenges mentioned above, we leverage a new paradigm of the generative models, i.e., diffusion models, and present sequential recommendation with diffusion models (DiffRec), which can avoid the issues of VAE- and GAN-based models and show better performance. While diffusion models are originally proposed to process continuous image data, we design an additional transition in the forward process together with a transition in the reverse process to enable the processing of the discrete recommendation data. We also design a different noising strategy that only noises the target item instead of the whole sequence, which is more suitable for sequential recommendation. Based on the modified diffusion process, we derive the objective function of our framework using a simplification technique and design a denoise sequential recommender to fulfill the objective function. As the lengthened diffusion steps substantially increase the time complexity, we propose an efficient training strategy and an efficient inference strategy to reduce training and inference cost and improve recommendation diversity. Extensive experiment results on three public benchmark datasets verify the effectiveness of our approach and show that DiffRec outperforms the state-of-the-art sequential recommendation models. 

**Title:** Two Steps Forward and One Behind: Rethinking Time Series Forecasting  with Deep Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04553

**Abstract:** The Transformer is a highly successful deep learning model that has revolutionised the world of artificial neural networks, first in natural language processing and later in computer vision. This model is based on the attention mechanism and is able to capture complex semantic relationships between a variety of patterns present in the input data. Precisely because of these characteristics, the Transformer has recently been exploited for time series forecasting problems, assuming its natural adaptability to the domain of continuous numerical series. Despite the acclaimed results in the literature, some works have raised doubts about the robustness of this approach. In this paper, we further investigate the effectiveness of Transformer-based models applied to the domain of time series forecasting, demonstrate their limitations, and propose a set of alternative models that are better performing and significantly less complex. In particular, we empirically show how simplifying this forecasting model almost always leads to an improvement, reaching the state of the art among Transformer-based architectures. We also propose shallow models without the attention mechanism, which compete with the overall state of the art in long time series forecasting, and demonstrate their ability to accurately predict extremely long windows. We show how it is always necessary to use a simple baseline to verify the effectiveness of one's models, and finally we conclude the paper with a reflection on recent research paths and the desire to follow trends and apply the latest model even where it may not be necessary. 

**Title:** Use the Detection Transformer as a Data Augmenter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04554

**Abstract:** Detection Transformer (DETR) is a Transformer architecture based object detection model. In this paper, we demonstrate that it can also be used as a data augmenter. We term our approach as DETR assisted CutMix, or DeMix for short. DeMix builds on CutMix, a simple yet highly effective data augmentation technique that has gained popularity in recent years. CutMix improves model performance by cutting and pasting a patch from one image onto another, yielding a new image. The corresponding label for this new example is specified as the weighted average of the original labels, where the weight is proportional to the area of the patches. CutMix selects a random patch to be cut. In contrast, DeMix elaborately selects a semantically rich patch, located by a pre-trained DETR. The label of the new image is specified in the same way as in CutMix. Experimental results on benchmark datasets for image classification demonstrate that DeMix significantly outperforms prior art data augmentation methods including CutMix. 

**Title:** Event-based Camera Tracker by $\nabla$t NeRF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04559

**Abstract:** When a camera travels across a 3D world, only a fraction of pixel value changes; an event-based camera observes the change as sparse events. How can we utilize sparse events for efficient recovery of the camera pose? We show that we can recover the camera pose by minimizing the error between sparse events and the temporal gradient of the scene represented as a neural radiance field (NeRF). To enable the computation of the temporal gradient of the scene, we augment NeRF's camera pose as a time function. When the input pose to the NeRF coincides with the actual pose, the output of the temporal gradient of NeRF equals the observed intensity changes on the event's points. Using this principle, we propose an event-based camera pose tracking framework called TeGRA which realizes the pose update by using the sparse event's observation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first camera pose estimation algorithm using the scene's implicit representation and the sparse intensity change from events. 

**Title:** Attention at SemEval-2023 Task 10: Explainable Detection of Online  Sexism (EDOS)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04610

**Abstract:** In this paper, we have worked on interpretability, trust, and understanding of the decisions made by models in the form of classification tasks. The task is divided into 3 subtasks. The first task consists of determining Binary Sexism Detection. The second task describes the Category of Sexism. The third task describes a more Fine-grained Category of Sexism. Our work explores solving these tasks as a classification problem by fine-tuning transformer-based architecture. We have performed several experiments with our architecture, including combining multiple transformers, using domain adaptive pretraining on the unlabelled dataset provided by Reddit and Gab, Joint learning, and taking different layers of transformers as input to a classification head. Our system (with team name Attention) was able to achieve a macro F1 score of 0.839 for task A, 0.5835 macro F1 score for task B and 0.3356 macro F1 score for task C at the Codalab SemEval Competition. Later we improved the accuracy of Task B to 0.6228 and Task C to 0.3693 in the test set. 

**Title:** HST-MRF: Heterogeneous Swin Transformer with Multi-Receptive Field for  Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04614

**Abstract:** The Transformer has been successfully used in medical image segmentation due to its excellent long-range modeling capabilities. However, patch segmentation is necessary when building a Transformer class model. This process may disrupt the tissue structure in medical images, resulting in the loss of relevant information. In this study, we proposed a Heterogeneous Swin Transformer with Multi-Receptive Field (HST-MRF) model based on U-shaped networks for medical image segmentation. The main purpose is to solve the problem of loss of structural information caused by patch segmentation using transformer by fusing patch information under different receptive fields. The heterogeneous Swin Transformer (HST) is the core module, which achieves the interaction of multi-receptive field patch information through heterogeneous attention and passes it to the next stage for progressive learning. We also designed a two-stage fusion module, multimodal bilinear pooling (MBP), to assist HST in further fusing multi-receptive field information and combining low-level and high-level semantic information for accurate localization of lesion regions. In addition, we developed adaptive patch embedding (APE) and soft channel attention (SCA) modules to retain more valuable information when acquiring patch embedding and filtering channel features, respectively, thereby improving model segmentation quality. We evaluated HST-MRF on multiple datasets for polyp and skin lesion segmentation tasks. Experimental results show that our proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art models and can achieve superior performance. Furthermore, we verified the effectiveness of each module and the benefits of multi-receptive field segmentation in reducing the loss of structural information through ablation experiments. 

**Title:** Automated Reading Passage Generation with OpenAI's Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04616

**Abstract:** The widespread usage of computer-based assessments and individualized learning platforms has resulted in an increased demand for the rapid production of high-quality items. Automated item generation (AIG), the process of using item models to generate new items with the help of computer technology, was proposed to reduce reliance on human subject experts at each step of the process. AIG has been used in test development for some time. Still, the use of machine learning algorithms has introduced the potential to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the process greatly. The approach presented in this paper utilizes OpenAI's latest transformer-based language model, GPT-3, to generate reading passages. Existing reading passages were used in carefully engineered prompts to ensure the AI-generated text has similar content and structure to a fourth-grade reading passage. For each prompt, we generated multiple passages, the final passage was selected according to the Lexile score agreement with the original passage. In the final round, the selected passage went through a simple revision by a human editor to ensure the text was free of any grammatical and factual errors. All AI-generated passages, along with original passages were evaluated by human judges according to their coherence, appropriateness to fourth graders, and readability. 

**Title:** Multilingual Machine Translation with Large Language Models: Empirical  Results and Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04675

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in handling multilingual machine translation (MMT). In this paper, we systematically investigate the advantages and challenges of LLMs for MMT by answering two questions: 1) How well do LLMs perform in translating a massive number of languages? 2) Which factors affect LLMs' performance in translation? We evaluate popular LLMs, including XGLM, OPT, BLOOMZ, and ChatGPT, on 102 languages. Our empirical results show that even the best model ChatGPT still lags behind the supervised baseline NLLB in 83.33% of translation directions. Through further analysis, we discover that LLMs exhibit new working patterns when used for MMT. First, prompt semantics can surprisingly be ignored when given in-context exemplars, where LLMs still show strong performance even with unreasonable prompts. Second, cross-lingual exemplars can provide better task instruction for low-resource translation than exemplars in the same language pairs. Third, we observe the overestimated performance of BLOOMZ on dataset Flores-101, indicating the potential risk when using public datasets for evaluation. 

**Title:** Controllable Motion Synthesis and Reconstruction with Autoregressive  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04681

**Abstract:** Data-driven and controllable human motion synthesis and prediction are active research areas with various applications in interactive media and social robotics. Challenges remain in these fields for generating diverse motions given past observations and dealing with imperfect poses. This paper introduces MoDiff, an autoregressive probabilistic diffusion model over motion sequences conditioned on control contexts of other modalities. Our model integrates a cross-modal Transformer encoder and a Transformer-based decoder, which are found effective in capturing temporal correlations in motion and control modalities. We also introduce a new data dropout method based on the diffusion forward process to provide richer data representations and robust generation. We demonstrate the superior performance of MoDiff in controllable motion synthesis for locomotion with respect to two baselines and show the benefits of diffusion data dropout for robust synthesis and reconstruction of high-fidelity motion close to recorded data. 

**Title:** Video-kMaX: A Simple Unified Approach for Online and Near-Online Video  Panoptic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04694

**Abstract:** Video Panoptic Segmentation (VPS) aims to achieve comprehensive pixel-level scene understanding by segmenting all pixels and associating objects in a video. Current solutions can be categorized into online and near-online approaches. Evolving over the time, each category has its own specialized designs, making it nontrivial to adapt models between different categories. To alleviate the discrepancy, in this work, we propose a unified approach for online and near-online VPS. The meta architecture of the proposed Video-kMaX consists of two components: within clip segmenter (for clip-level segmentation) and cross-clip associater (for association beyond clips). We propose clip-kMaX (clip k-means mask transformer) and HiLA-MB (Hierarchical Location-Aware Memory Buffer) to instantiate the segmenter and associater, respectively. Our general formulation includes the online scenario as a special case by adopting clip length of one. Without bells and whistles, Video-kMaX sets a new state-of-the-art on KITTI-STEP and VIPSeg for video panoptic segmentation, and VSPW for video semantic segmentation. Code will be made publicly available. 

**Title:** Incorporating Structured Sentences with Time-enhanced BERT for  Fully-inductive Temporal Relation Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04717

**Abstract:** Temporal relation prediction in incomplete temporal knowledge graphs (TKGs) is a popular temporal knowledge graph completion (TKGC) problem in both transductive and inductive settings. Traditional embedding-based TKGC models (TKGE) rely on structured connections and can only handle a fixed set of entities, i.e., the transductive setting. In the inductive setting where test TKGs contain emerging entities, the latest methods are based on symbolic rules or pre-trained language models (PLMs). However, they suffer from being inflexible and not time-specific, respectively. In this work, we extend the fully-inductive setting, where entities in the training and test sets are totally disjoint, into TKGs and take a further step towards a more flexible and time-sensitive temporal relation prediction approach SST-BERT, incorporating Structured Sentences with Time-enhanced BERT. Our model can obtain the entity history and implicitly learn rules in the semantic space by encoding structured sentences, solving the problem of inflexibility. We propose to use a time masking MLM task to pre-train BERT in a corpus rich in temporal tokens specially generated for TKGs, enhancing the time sensitivity of SST-BERT. To compute the probability of occurrence of a target quadruple, we aggregate all its structured sentences from both temporal and semantic perspectives into a score. Experiments on the transductive datasets and newly generated fully-inductive benchmarks show that SST-BERT successfully improves over state-of-the-art baselines. 

**Title:** Detection Transformer with Stable Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04742

**Abstract:** This paper is concerned with the matching stability problem across different decoder layers in DEtection TRansformers (DETR). We point out that the unstable matching in DETR is caused by a multi-optimization path problem, which is highlighted by the one-to-one matching design in DETR. To address this problem, we show that the most important design is to use and only use positional metrics (like IOU) to supervise classification scores of positive examples. Under the principle, we propose two simple yet effective modifications by integrating positional metrics to DETR's classification loss and matching cost, named position-supervised loss and position-modulated cost. We verify our methods on several DETR variants. Our methods show consistent improvements over baselines. By integrating our methods with DINO, we achieve 50.4 and 51.5 AP on the COCO detection benchmark using ResNet-50 backbones under 12 epochs and 24 epochs training settings, achieving a new record under the same setting. We achieve 63.8 AP on COCO detection test-dev with a Swin-Large backbone. Our code will be made available at https://github.com/IDEA-Research/Stable-DINO. 

**Title:** Ambiguous Medical Image Segmentation using Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04745

**Abstract:** Collective insights from a group of experts have always proven to outperform an individual's best diagnostic for clinical tasks. For the task of medical image segmentation, existing research on AI-based alternatives focuses more on developing models that can imitate the best individual rather than harnessing the power of expert groups. In this paper, we introduce a single diffusion model-based approach that produces multiple plausible outputs by learning a distribution over group insights. Our proposed model generates a distribution of segmentation masks by leveraging the inherent stochastic sampling process of diffusion using only minimal additional learning. We demonstrate on three different medical image modalities- CT, ultrasound, and MRI that our model is capable of producing several possible variants while capturing the frequencies of their occurrences. Comprehensive results show that our proposed approach outperforms existing state-of-the-art ambiguous segmentation networks in terms of accuracy while preserving naturally occurring variation. We also propose a new metric to evaluate the diversity as well as the accuracy of segmentation predictions that aligns with the interest of clinical practice of collective insights. 

**Title:** A Cheaper and Better Diffusion Language Model with Soft-Masked Noise  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04746

**Abstract:** Diffusion models that are based on iterative denoising have been recently proposed and leveraged in various generation tasks like image generation. Whereas, as a way inherently built for continuous data, existing diffusion models still have some limitations in modeling discrete data, e.g., languages. For example, the generally used Gaussian noise can not handle the discrete corruption well, and the objectives in continuous spaces fail to be stable for textual data in the diffusion process especially when the dimension is high. To alleviate these issues, we introduce a novel diffusion model for language modeling, Masked-Diffuse LM, with lower training cost and better performances, inspired by linguistic features in languages. Specifically, we design a linguistic-informed forward process which adds corruptions to the text through strategically soft-masking to better noise the textual data. Also, we directly predict the categorical distribution with cross-entropy loss function in every diffusion step to connect the continuous space and discrete space in a more efficient and straightforward way. Through experiments on 5 controlled generation tasks, we demonstrate that our Masked-Diffuse LM can achieve better generation quality than the state-of-the-art diffusion models with better efficiency. 

**Title:** DiffDock-PP: Rigid Protein-Protein Docking with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03889

**Abstract:** Understanding how proteins structurally interact is crucial to modern biology, with applications in drug discovery and protein design. Recent machine learning methods have formulated protein-small molecule docking as a generative problem with significant performance boosts over both traditional and deep learning baselines. In this work, we propose a similar approach for rigid protein-protein docking: DiffDock-PP is a diffusion generative model that learns to translate and rotate unbound protein structures into their bound conformations. We achieve state-of-the-art performance on DIPS with a median C-RMSD of 4.85, outperforming all considered baselines. Additionally, DiffDock-PP is faster than all search-based methods and generates reliable confidence estimates for its predictions. Our code is publicly available at $\texttt{https://github.com/ketatam/DiffDock-PP}$ 

**Title:** Towards Realistic Ultrasound Fetal Brain Imaging Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03941

**Abstract:** Prenatal ultrasound imaging is the first-choice modality to assess fetal health. Medical image datasets for AI and ML methods must be diverse (i.e. diagnoses, diseases, pathologies, scanners, demographics, etc), however there are few public ultrasound fetal imaging datasets due to insufficient amounts of clinical data, patient privacy, rare occurrence of abnormalities in general practice, and limited experts for data collection and validation. To address such data scarcity, we proposed generative adversarial networks (GAN)-based models, diffusion-super-resolution-GAN and transformer-based-GAN, to synthesise images of fetal ultrasound brain planes from one public dataset. We reported that GAN-based methods can generate 256x256 pixel size of fetal ultrasound trans-cerebellum brain image plane with stable training losses, resulting in lower FID values for diffusion-super-resolution-GAN (average 7.04 and lower FID 5.09 at epoch 10) than the FID values of transformer-based-GAN (average 36.02 and lower 28.93 at epoch 60). The results of this work illustrate the potential of GAN-based methods to synthesise realistic high-resolution ultrasound images, leading to future work with other fetal brain planes, anatomies, devices and the need of a pool of experts to evaluate synthesised images. Code, data and other resources to reproduce this work are available at \url{https://github.com/budai4medtech/midl2023}. 

**Title:** MedGen3D: A Deep Generative Framework for Paired 3D Image and Mask  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04106

**Abstract:** Acquiring and annotating sufficient labeled data is crucial in developing accurate and robust learning-based models, but obtaining such data can be challenging in many medical image segmentation tasks. One promising solution is to synthesize realistic data with ground-truth mask annotations. However, no prior studies have explored generating complete 3D volumetric images with masks. In this paper, we present MedGen3D, a deep generative framework that can generate paired 3D medical images and masks. First, we represent the 3D medical data as 2D sequences and propose the Multi-Condition Diffusion Probabilistic Model (MC-DPM) to generate multi-label mask sequences adhering to anatomical geometry. Then, we use an image sequence generator and semantic diffusion refiner conditioned on the generated mask sequences to produce realistic 3D medical images that align with the generated masks. Our proposed framework guarantees accurate alignment between synthetic images and segmentation maps. Experiments on 3D thoracic CT and brain MRI datasets show that our synthetic data is both diverse and faithful to the original data, and demonstrate the benefits for downstream segmentation tasks. We anticipate that MedGen3D's ability to synthesize paired 3D medical images and masks will prove valuable in training deep learning models for medical imaging tasks. 

**Title:** PriorCVAE: scalable MCMC parameter inference with Bayesian deep  generative modelling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04307

**Abstract:** In applied fields where the speed of inference and model flexibility are crucial, the use of Bayesian inference for models with a stochastic process as their prior, e.g. Gaussian processes (GPs) is ubiquitous. Recent literature has demonstrated that the computational bottleneck caused by GP priors or their finite realizations can be encoded using deep generative models such as variational autoencoders (VAEs), and the learned generators can then be used instead of the original priors during Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) inference in a drop-in manner. While this approach enables fast and highly efficient inference, it loses information about the stochastic process hyperparameters, and, as a consequence, makes inference over hyperparameters impossible and the learned priors indistinct. We propose to resolve the aforementioned issue and disentangle the learned priors by conditioning the VAE on stochastic process hyperparameters. This way, the hyperparameters are encoded alongside GP realisations and can be explicitly estimated at the inference stage. We believe that the new method, termed PriorCVAE, will be a useful tool among approximate inference approaches and has the potential to have a large impact on spatial and spatiotemporal inference in crucial real-life applications. Code showcasing the PriorCVAE technique can be accessed via the following link: https://github.com/elizavetasemenova/PriorCVAE 

**Title:** ADS_UNet: A Nested UNet for Histopathology Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04567

**Abstract:** The UNet model consists of fully convolutional network (FCN) layers arranged as contracting encoder and upsampling decoder maps. Nested arrangements of these encoder and decoder maps give rise to extensions of the UNet model, such as UNete and UNet++. Other refinements include constraining the outputs of the convolutional layers to discriminate between segment labels when trained end to end, a property called deep supervision. This reduces feature diversity in these nested UNet models despite their large parameter space. Furthermore, for texture segmentation, pixel correlations at multiple scales contribute to the classification task; hence, explicit deep supervision of shallower layers is likely to enhance performance. In this paper, we propose ADS UNet, a stage-wise additive training algorithm that incorporates resource-efficient deep supervision in shallower layers and takes performance-weighted combinations of the sub-UNets to create the segmentation model. We provide empirical evidence on three histopathology datasets to support the claim that the proposed ADS UNet reduces correlations between constituent features and improves performance while being more resource efficient. We demonstrate that ADS_UNet outperforms state-of-the-art Transformer-based models by 1.08 and 0.6 points on CRAG and BCSS datasets, and yet requires only 37% of GPU consumption and 34% of training time as that required by Transformers. 

**Title:** Reconstruction-driven Dynamic Refinement based Unsupervised Domain  Adaptation for Joint Optic Disc and Cup Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04581

**Abstract:** Glaucoma is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness. Segmentation of optic disc (OD) and optic cup (OC) on fundus images is a crucial step in glaucoma screening. Although many deep learning models have been constructed for this task, it remains challenging to train an OD/OC segmentation model that could be deployed successfully to different healthcare centers. The difficulties mainly comes from the domain shift issue, i.e., the fundus images collected at these centers usually vary greatly in the tone, contrast, and brightness. To address this issue, in this paper, we propose a novel unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) method called Reconstruction-driven Dynamic Refinement Network (RDR-Net), where we employ a due-path segmentation backbone for simultaneous edge detection and region prediction and design three modules to alleviate the domain gap. The reconstruction alignment (RA) module uses a variational auto-encoder (VAE) to reconstruct the input image and thus boosts the image representation ability of the network in a self-supervised way. It also uses a style-consistency constraint to force the network to retain more domain-invariant information. The low-level feature refinement (LFR) module employs input-specific dynamic convolutions to suppress the domain-variant information in the obtained low-level features. The prediction-map alignment (PMA) module elaborates the entropy-driven adversarial learning to encourage the network to generate source-like boundaries and regions. We evaluated our RDR-Net against state-of-the-art solutions on four public fundus image datasets. Our results indicate that RDR-Net is superior to competing models in both segmentation performance and generalization ability 

**Title:** SELFormer: Molecular Representation Learning via SELFIES Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04662

**Abstract:** Automated computational analysis of the vast chemical space is critical for numerous fields of research such as drug discovery and material science. Representation learning techniques have recently been employed with the primary objective of generating compact and informative numerical expressions of complex data. One approach to efficiently learn molecular representations is processing string-based notations of chemicals via natural language processing (NLP) algorithms. Majority of the methods proposed so far utilize SMILES notations for this purpose; however, SMILES is associated with numerous problems related to validity and robustness, which may prevent the model from effectively uncovering the knowledge hidden in the data. In this study, we propose SELFormer, a transformer architecture-based chemical language model that utilizes a 100% valid, compact and expressive notation, SELFIES, as input, in order to learn flexible and high-quality molecular representations. SELFormer is pre-trained on two million drug-like compounds and fine-tuned for diverse molecular property prediction tasks. Our performance evaluation has revealed that, SELFormer outperforms all competing methods, including graph learning-based approaches and SMILES-based chemical language models, on predicting aqueous solubility of molecules and adverse drug reactions. We also visualized molecular representations learned by SELFormer via dimensionality reduction, which indicated that even the pre-trained model can discriminate molecules with differing structural properties. We shared SELFormer as a programmatic tool, together with its datasets and pre-trained models. Overall, our research demonstrates the benefit of using the SELFIES notations in the context of chemical language modeling and opens up new possibilities for the design and discovery of novel drug candidates with desired features. 

**Title:** Reflected Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04740

**Abstract:** Score-based diffusion models learn to reverse a stochastic differential equation that maps data to noise. However, for complex tasks, numerical error can compound and result in highly unnatural samples. Previous work mitigates this drift with thresholding, which projects to the natural data domain (such as pixel space for images) after each diffusion step, but this leads to a mismatch between the training and generative processes. To incorporate data constraints in a principled manner, we present Reflected Diffusion Models, which instead reverse a reflected stochastic differential equation evolving on the support of the data. Our approach learns the perturbed score function through a generalize score matching loss and extends key components of standard diffusion models including diffusion guidance, likelihood-based training, and ODE sampling. We also bridge the theoretical gap with thresholding: such schemes are just discretizations of reflected SDEs. On standard image benchmarks, our method is competitive with or surpasses the state of the art and, for classifier-free guidance, our approach enables fast exact sampling with ODEs and produces more faithful samples under high guidance weight. 

