**Title:** $\textit{e-Uber}$: A Crowdsourcing Platform for Electric Vehicle-based  Ride- and Energy-sharing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04753

**Abstract:** The sharing-economy-based business model has recently seen success in the transportation and accommodation sectors with companies like Uber and Airbnb. There is growing interest in applying this model to energy systems, with modalities like peer-to-peer (P2P) Energy Trading, Electric Vehicles (EV)-based Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G), Vehicle-to-Home (V2H), Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V), and Battery Swapping Technology (BST). In this work, we exploit the increasing diffusion of EVs to realize a crowdsourcing platform called e-Uber that jointly enables ride-sharing and energy-sharing through V2G and BST. e-Uber exploits spatial crowdsourcing, reinforcement learning, and reverse auction theory. Specifically, the platform uses reinforcement learning to understand the drivers' preferences towards different ride-sharing and energy-sharing tasks. Based on these preferences, a personalized list is recommended to each driver through CMAB-based Algorithm for task Recommendation System (CARS). Drivers bid on their preferred tasks in their list in a reverse auction fashion. Then e-Uber solves the task assignment optimization problem that minimizes cost and guarantees V2G energy requirement. We prove that this problem is NP-hard and introduce a bipartite matching-inspired heuristic, Bipartite Matching-based Winner selection (BMW), that has polynomial time complexity. Results from experiments using real data from NYC taxi trips and energy consumption show that e-Uber performs close to the optimum and finds better solutions compared to a state-of-the-art approach 

**Title:** DDRF: Denoising Diffusion Model for Remote Sensing Image Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04774

**Abstract:** Denosing diffusion model, as a generative model, has received a lot of attention in the field of image generation recently, thanks to its powerful generation capability. However, diffusion models have not yet received sufficient research in the field of image fusion. In this article, we introduce diffusion model to the image fusion field, treating the image fusion task as image-to-image translation and designing two different conditional injection modulation modules (i.e., style transfer modulation and wavelet modulation) to inject coarse-grained style information and fine-grained high-frequency and low-frequency information into the diffusion UNet, thereby generating fused images. In addition, we also discussed the residual learning and the selection of training objectives of the diffusion model in the image fusion task. Extensive experimental results based on quantitative and qualitative assessments compared with benchmarks demonstrates state-of-the-art results and good generalization performance in image fusion tasks. Finally, it is hoped that our method can inspire other works and gain insight into this field to better apply the diffusion model to image fusion tasks. Code shall be released for better reproducibility. 

**Title:** Examining Temporalities on Stance Detection Towards COVID-19 Vaccination  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04806

**Abstract:** Previous studies have highlighted the importance of vaccination as an effective strategy to control the transmission of the COVID-19 virus. It is crucial for policymakers to have a comprehensive understanding of the public's stance towards vaccination on a large scale. However, attitudes towards COVID-19 vaccination, such as pro-vaccine or vaccine hesitancy, have evolved over time on social media. Thus, it is necessary to account for possible temporal shifts when analysing these stances. This study aims to examine the impact of temporal concept drift on stance detection towards COVID-19 vaccination on Twitter. To this end, we evaluate a range of transformer-based models using chronological and random splits of social media data. Our findings demonstrate significant discrepancies in model performance when comparing random and chronological splits across all monolingual and multilingual datasets. Chronological splits significantly reduce the accuracy of stance classification. Therefore, real-world stance detection approaches need to be further refined to incorporate temporal factors as a key consideration. 

**Title:** Binary Latent Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04820

**Abstract:** In this paper, we show that a binary latent space can be explored for compact yet expressive image representations. We model the bi-directional mappings between an image and the corresponding latent binary representation by training an auto-encoder with a Bernoulli encoding distribution. On the one hand, the binary latent space provides a compact discrete image representation of which the distribution can be modeled more efficiently than pixels or continuous latent representations. On the other hand, we now represent each image patch as a binary vector instead of an index of a learned cookbook as in discrete image representations with vector quantization. In this way, we obtain binary latent representations that allow for better image quality and high-resolution image representations without any multi-stage hierarchy in the latent space. In this binary latent space, images can now be generated effectively using a binary latent diffusion model tailored specifically for modeling the prior over the binary image representations. We present both conditional and unconditional image generation experiments with multiple datasets, and show that the proposed method performs comparably to state-of-the-art methods while dramatically improving the sampling efficiency to as few as 16 steps without using any test-time acceleration. The proposed framework can also be seamlessly scaled to $1024 \times 1024$ high-resolution image generation without resorting to latent hierarchy or multi-stage refinements. 

**Title:** iPINNs: Incremental learning for Physics-informed neural networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04854

**Abstract:** Physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) have recently become a powerful tool for solving partial differential equations (PDEs). However, finding a set of neural network parameters that lead to fulfilling a PDE can be challenging and non-unique due to the complexity of the loss landscape that needs to be traversed. Although a variety of multi-task learning and transfer learning approaches have been proposed to overcome these issues, there is no incremental training procedure for PINNs that can effectively mitigate such training challenges. We propose incremental PINNs (iPINNs) that can learn multiple tasks (equations) sequentially without additional parameters for new tasks and improve performance for every equation in the sequence. Our approach learns multiple PDEs starting from the simplest one by creating its own subnetwork for each PDE and allowing each subnetwork to overlap with previously learned subnetworks. We demonstrate that previous subnetworks are a good initialization for a new equation if PDEs share similarities. We also show that iPINNs achieve lower prediction error than regular PINNs for two different scenarios: (1) learning a family of equations (e.g., 1-D convection PDE); and (2) learning PDEs resulting from a combination of processes (e.g., 1-D reaction-diffusion PDE). The ability to learn all problems with a single network together with learning more complex PDEs with better generalization than regular PINNs will open new avenues in this field. 

**Title:** Neural Image-based Avatars: Generalizable Radiance Fields for Human  Avatar Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04897

**Abstract:** We present a method that enables synthesizing novel views and novel poses of arbitrary human performers from sparse multi-view images. A key ingredient of our method is a hybrid appearance blending module that combines the advantages of the implicit body NeRF representation and image-based rendering. Existing generalizable human NeRF methods that are conditioned on the body model have shown robustness against the geometric variation of arbitrary human performers. Yet they often exhibit blurry results when generalized onto unseen identities. Meanwhile, image-based rendering shows high-quality results when sufficient observations are available, whereas it suffers artifacts in sparse-view settings. We propose Neural Image-based Avatars (NIA) that exploits the best of those two methods: to maintain robustness under new articulations and self-occlusions while directly leveraging the available (sparse) source view colors to preserve appearance details of new subject identities. Our hybrid design outperforms recent methods on both in-domain identity generalization as well as challenging cross-dataset generalization settings. Also, in terms of the pose generalization, our method outperforms even the per-subject optimized animatable NeRF methods. The video results are available at https://youngjoongunc.github.io/nia 

**Title:** Weakly Supervised Intracranial Hemorrhage Segmentation using Head-Wise  Gradient-Infused Self-Attention Maps from a Swin Transformer in Categorical  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04902

**Abstract:** Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) is a life-threatening medical emergency caused by various factors. Timely and precise diagnosis of ICH is crucial for administering effective treatment and improving patient survival rates. While deep learning techniques have emerged as the leading approach for medical image analysis and processing, the most commonly employed supervised learning often requires large, high-quality annotated datasets that can be costly to obtain, particularly for pixel/voxel-wise image segmentation. To address this challenge and facilitate ICH treatment decisions, we proposed a novel weakly supervised ICH segmentation method that leverages a hierarchical combination of head-wise gradient-infused self-attention maps obtained from a Swin transformer. The transformer is trained using an ICH classification task with categorical labels. To build and validate the proposed technique, we used two publicly available clinical CT datasets, namely RSNA 2019 Brain CT hemorrhage and PhysioNet. Additionally, we conducted an exploratory study comparing two learning strategies - binary classification and full ICH subtyping - to assess their impact on self-attention and our weakly supervised ICH segmentation framework. The proposed algorithm was compared against the popular U-Net with full supervision, as well as a similar weakly supervised approach using Grad-CAM for ICH segmentation. With a mean Dice score of 0.47, our technique achieved similar ICH segmentation performance as the U-Net and outperformed the Grad-CAM based approach, demonstrating the excellent potential of the proposed framework in challenging medical image segmentation tasks. 

**Title:** Explicit and Implicit Semantic Ranking Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04918

**Abstract:** The core challenge in numerous real-world applications is to match an inquiry to the best document from a mutable and finite set of candidates. Existing industry solutions, especially latency-constrained services, often rely on similarity algorithms that sacrifice quality for speed. In this paper we introduce a generic semantic learning-to-rank framework, Self-training Semantic Cross-attention Ranking (sRank). This transformer-based framework uses linear pairwise loss with mutable training batch sizes and achieves quality gains and high efficiency, and has been applied effectively to show gains on two industry tasks at Microsoft over real-world large-scale data sets: Smart Reply (SR) and Ambient Clinical Intelligence (ACI). In Smart Reply, $sRank$ assists live customers with technical support by selecting the best reply from predefined solutions based on consumer and support agent messages. It achieves 11.7% gain in offline top-one accuracy on the SR task over the previous system, and has enabled 38.7% time reduction in composing messages in telemetry recorded since its general release in January 2021. In the ACI task, sRank selects relevant historical physician templates that serve as guidance for a text summarization model to generate higher quality medical notes. It achieves 35.5% top-one accuracy gain, along with 46% relative ROUGE-L gain in generated medical notes. 

**Title:** Advancing Medical Imaging with Language Models: A Journey from N-grams  to ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04920

**Abstract:** In this paper, we aimed to provide a review and tutorial for researchers in the field of medical imaging using language models to improve their tasks at hand. We began by providing an overview of the history and concepts of language models, with a special focus on large language models. We then reviewed the current literature on how language models are being used to improve medical imaging, emphasizing different applications such as image captioning, report generation, report classification, finding extraction, visual question answering, interpretable diagnosis, and more for various modalities and organs. The ChatGPT was specially highlighted for researchers to explore more potential applications. We covered the potential benefits of accurate and efficient language models for medical imaging analysis, including improving clinical workflow efficiency, reducing diagnostic errors, and assisting healthcare professionals in providing timely and accurate diagnoses. Overall, our goal was to bridge the gap between language models and medical imaging and inspire new ideas and innovations in this exciting area of research. We hope that this review paper will serve as a useful resource for researchers in this field and encourage further exploration of the possibilities of language models in medical imaging. 

**Title:** Data-Efficient Image Quality Assessment with Attention-Panel Decoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04952

**Abstract:** Blind Image Quality Assessment (BIQA) is a fundamental task in computer vision, which however remains unresolved due to the complex distortion conditions and diversified image contents. To confront this challenge, we in this paper propose a novel BIQA pipeline based on the Transformer architecture, which achieves an efficient quality-aware feature representation with much fewer data. More specifically, we consider the traditional fine-tuning in BIQA as an interpretation of the pre-trained model. In this way, we further introduce a Transformer decoder to refine the perceptual information of the CLS token from different perspectives. This enables our model to establish the quality-aware feature manifold efficiently while attaining a strong generalization capability. Meanwhile, inspired by the subjective evaluation behaviors of human, we introduce a novel attention panel mechanism, which improves the model performance and reduces the prediction uncertainty simultaneously. The proposed BIQA method maintains a lightweight design with only one layer of the decoder, yet extensive experiments on eight standard BIQA datasets (both synthetic and authentic) demonstrate its superior performance to the state-of-the-art BIQA methods, i.e., achieving the SRCC values of 0.875 (vs. 0.859 in LIVEC) and 0.980 (vs. 0.969 in LIVE). 

**Title:** Multi-Graph Convolution Network for Pose Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04956

**Abstract:** Recently, there has been a growing interest in predicting human motion, which involves forecasting future body poses based on observed pose sequences. This task is complex due to modeling spatial and temporal relationships. The most commonly used models for this task are autoregressive models, such as recurrent neural networks (RNNs) or variants, and Transformer Networks. However, RNNs have several drawbacks, such as vanishing or exploding gradients. Other researchers have attempted to solve the communication problem in the spatial dimension by integrating Graph Convolutional Networks (GCN) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) models. These works deal with temporal and spatial information separately, which limits the effectiveness. To fix this problem, we propose a novel approach called the multi-graph convolution network (MGCN) for 3D human pose forecasting. This model simultaneously captures spatial and temporal information by introducing an augmented graph for pose sequences. Multiple frames give multiple parts, joined together in a single graph instance. Furthermore, we also explore the influence of natural structure and sequence-aware attention to our model. In our experimental evaluation of the large-scale benchmark datasets, Human3.6M, AMSS and 3DPW, MGCN outperforms the state-of-the-art in pose prediction. 

**Title:** Panoramic Image-to-Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04960

**Abstract:** In this paper, we tackle the challenging task of Panoramic Image-to-Image translation (Pano-I2I) for the first time. This task is difficult due to the geometric distortion of panoramic images and the lack of a panoramic image dataset with diverse conditions, like weather or time. To address these challenges, we propose a panoramic distortion-aware I2I model that preserves the structure of the panoramic images while consistently translating their global style referenced from a pinhole image. To mitigate the distortion issue in naive 360 panorama translation, we adopt spherical positional embedding to our transformer encoders, introduce a distortion-free discriminator, and apply sphere-based rotation for augmentation and its ensemble. We also design a content encoder and a style encoder to be deformation-aware to deal with a large domain gap between panoramas and pinhole images, enabling us to work on diverse conditions of pinhole images. In addition, considering the large discrepancy between panoramas and pinhole images, our framework decouples the learning procedure of the panoramic reconstruction stage from the translation stage. We show distinct improvements over existing I2I models in translating the StreetLearn dataset in the daytime into diverse conditions. The code will be publicly available online for our community. 

**Title:** MRVM-NeRF: Mask-Based Pretraining for Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04962

**Abstract:** Most Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have poor generalization ability, limiting their application when representing multiple scenes by a single model. To ameliorate this problem, existing methods simply condition NeRF models on image features, lacking the global understanding and modeling of the entire 3D scene. Inspired by the significant success of mask-based modeling in other research fields, we propose a masked ray and view modeling method for generalizable NeRF (MRVM-NeRF), the first attempt to incorporate mask-based pretraining into 3D implicit representations. Specifically, considering that the core of NeRFs lies in modeling 3D representations along the rays and across the views, we randomly mask a proportion of sampled points along the ray at fine stage by discarding partial information obtained from multi-viewpoints, targeting at predicting the corresponding features produced in the coarse branch. In this way, the learned prior knowledge of 3D scenes during pretraining helps the model generalize better to novel scenarios after finetuning. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed MRVM-NeRF under various synthetic and real-world settings, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Our empirical studies reveal the effectiveness of our proposed innovative MRVM which is specifically designed for NeRF models. 

**Title:** Re-imagine the Negative Prompt Algorithm: Transform 2D Diffusion into  3D, alleviate Janus problem and Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04968

**Abstract:** Although text-to-image diffusion models have made significant strides in generating images from text, they are sometimes more inclined to generate images like the data on which the model was trained rather than the provided text. This limitation has hindered their usage in both 2D and 3D applications. To address this problem, we explored the use of negative prompts but found that the current implementation fails to produce desired results, particularly when there is an overlap between the main and negative prompts. To overcome this issue, we propose Perp-Neg, a new algorithm that leverages the geometrical properties of the score space to address the shortcomings of the current negative prompts algorithm. Perp-Neg does not require any training or fine-tuning of the model. Moreover, we experimentally demonstrate that Perp-Neg provides greater flexibility in generating images by enabling users to edit out unwanted concepts from the initially generated images in 2D cases. Furthermore, to extend the application of Perp-Neg to 3D, we conducted a thorough exploration of how Perp-Neg can be used in 2D to condition the diffusion model to generate desired views, rather than being biased toward the canonical views. Finally, we applied our 2D intuition to integrate Perp-Neg with the state-of-the-art text-to-3D (DreamFusion) method, effectively addressing its Janus (multi-head) problem. 

**Title:** Diffusion Recommender Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04971

**Abstract:** Generative models such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and Variational Auto-Encoders (VAEs) are widely utilized to model the generative process of user interactions. However, these generative models suffer from intrinsic limitations such as the instability of GANs and the restricted representation ability of VAEs. Such limitations hinder the accurate modeling of the complex user interaction generation procedure, such as noisy interactions caused by various interference factors. In light of the impressive advantages of Diffusion Models (DMs) over traditional generative models in image synthesis, we propose a novel Diffusion Recommender Model (named DiffRec) to learn the generative process in a denoising manner. To retain personalized information in user interactions, DiffRec reduces the added noises and avoids corrupting users' interactions into pure noises like in image synthesis. In addition, we extend traditional DMs to tackle the unique challenges in practical recommender systems: high resource costs for large-scale item prediction and temporal shifts of user preference. To this end, we propose two extensions of DiffRec: L-DiffRec clusters items for dimension compression and conducts the diffusion processes in the latent space; and T-DiffRec reweights user interactions based on the interaction timestamps to encode temporal information. We conduct extensive experiments on three datasets under multiple settings (e.g. clean training, noisy training, and temporal training). The empirical results and in-depth analysis validate the superiority of DiffRec with two extensions over competitive baselines. 

**Title:** Sim-T: Simplify the Transformer Network by Multiplexing Technique for  Speech Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04991

**Abstract:** In recent years, a great deal of attention has been paid to the Transformer network for speech recognition tasks due to its excellent model performance. However, the Transformer network always involves heavy computation and large number of parameters, causing serious deployment problems in devices with limited computation sources or storage memory. In this paper, a new lightweight model called Sim-T has been proposed to expand the generality of the Transformer model. Under the help of the newly developed multiplexing technique, the Sim-T can efficiently compress the model with negligible sacrifice on its performance. To be more precise, the proposed technique includes two parts, that are, module weight multiplexing and attention score multiplexing. Moreover, a novel decoder structure has been proposed to facilitate the attention score multiplexing. Extensive experiments have been conducted to validate the effectiveness of Sim-T. In Aishell-1 dataset, when the proposed Sim-T is 48% parameter less than the baseline Transformer, 0.4% CER improvement can be obtained. Alternatively, 69% parameter reduction can be achieved if the Sim-T gives the same performance as the baseline Transformer. With regard to the HKUST and WSJ eval92 datasets, CER and WER will be improved by 0.3% and 0.2%, respectively, when parameters in Sim-T are 40% less than the baseline Transformer. 

**Title:** Neural Multi-network Diffusion towards Social Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04994

**Abstract:** Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have been widely applied on a variety of real-world applications, such as social recommendation. However, existing GNN-based models on social recommendation suffer from serious problems of generalization and oversmoothness, because of the underexplored negative sampling method and the direct implanting of the off-the-shelf GNN models. In this paper, we propose a succinct multi-network GNN-based neural model (NeMo) for social recommendation. Compared with the existing methods, the proposed model explores a generative negative sampling strategy, and leverages both the positive and negative user-item interactions for users' interest propagation. The experiments show that NeMo outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines on various real-world benchmark datasets (e.g., by up to 38.8% in terms of NDCG@15). 

**Title:** Relational Context Learning for Human-Object Interaction Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04997

**Abstract:** Recent state-of-the-art methods for HOI detection typically build on transformer architectures with two decoder branches, one for human-object pair detection and the other for interaction classification. Such disentangled transformers, however, may suffer from insufficient context exchange between the branches and lead to a lack of context information for relational reasoning, which is critical in discovering HOI instances. In this work, we propose the multiplex relation network (MUREN) that performs rich context exchange between three decoder branches using unary, pairwise, and ternary relations of human, object, and interaction tokens. The proposed method learns comprehensive relational contexts for discovering HOI instances, achieving state-of-the-art performance on two standard benchmarks for HOI detection, HICO-DET and V-COCO. 

**Title:** SPIRiT-Diffusion: Self-Consistency Driven Diffusion Model for  Accelerated MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05060

**Abstract:** Diffusion models are a leading method for image generation and have been successfully applied in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) reconstruction. Current diffusion-based reconstruction methods rely on coil sensitivity maps (CSM) to reconstruct multi-coil data. However, it is difficult to accurately estimate CSMs in practice use, resulting in degradation of the reconstruction quality. To address this issue, we propose a self-consistency-driven diffusion model inspired by the iterative self-consistent parallel imaging (SPIRiT), namely SPIRiT-Diffusion. Specifically, the iterative solver of the self-consistent term in SPIRiT is utilized to design a novel stochastic differential equation (SDE) for diffusion process. Then $\textit{k}$-space data can be interpolated directly during the reverse diffusion process, instead of using CSM to separate and combine individual coil images. This method indicates that the optimization model can be used to design SDE in diffusion models, driving the diffusion process strongly conforming with the physics involved in the optimization model, dubbed model-driven diffusion. The proposed SPIRiT-Diffusion method was evaluated on a 3D joint Intracranial and Carotid Vessel Wall imaging dataset. The results demonstrate that it outperforms the CSM-based reconstruction methods, and achieves high reconstruction quality at a high acceleration rate of 10. 

**Title:** Gradient flows of interacting Laguerre cells as discrete porous media  flows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05069

**Abstract:** We study a class of discrete models in which a collection of particles evolves in time following the gradient flow of an energy depending on the cell areas of an associated Laguerre (i.e. a weighted Voronoi) tessellation. We consider the high number of cell limit of such systems and, using a modulated energy argument, we prove convergence towards smooth solutions of nonlinear diffusion PDEs of porous medium type. 

**Title:** WEAR: A Multimodal Dataset for Wearable and Egocentric Video Activity  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05088

**Abstract:** Though research has shown the complementarity of camera- and inertial-based data, datasets which offer both modalities remain scarce. In this paper we introduce WEAR, a multimodal benchmark dataset for both vision- and wearable-based Human Activity Recognition (HAR). The dataset comprises data from 18 participants performing a total of 18 different workout activities with untrimmed inertial (acceleration) and camera (egocentric video) data recorded at 10 different outside locations. WEAR features a diverse set of activities which are low in inter-class similarity and, unlike previous egocentric datasets, not defined by human-object-interactions nor originate from inherently distinct activity categories. Provided benchmark results reveal that single-modality architectures have different strengths and weaknesses in their prediction performance. Further, in light of the recent success of transformer-based video action detection models, we demonstrate their versatility by applying them in a plain fashion using vision, inertial and combined (vision + inertial) features as input. Results show that vision transformers are not only able to produce competitive results using only inertial data, but also can function as an architecture to fuse both modalities by means of simple concatenation, with the multimodal approach being able to produce the highest average mAP, precision and close-to-best F1-scores. Up until now, vision-based transformers have neither been explored in inertial nor in multimodal human activity recognition, making our approach the first to do so. The dataset and code to reproduce experiments is publicly available via: mariusbock.github.io/wear 

**Title:** Generating Features with Increased Crop-related Diversity for Few-Shot  Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05096

**Abstract:** Two-stage object detectors generate object proposals and classify them to detect objects in images. These proposals often do not contain the objects perfectly but overlap with them in many possible ways, exhibiting great variability in the difficulty levels of the proposals. Training a robust classifier against this crop-related variability requires abundant training data, which is not available in few-shot settings. To mitigate this issue, we propose a novel variational autoencoder (VAE) based data generation model, which is capable of generating data with increased crop-related diversity. The main idea is to transform the latent space such latent codes with different norms represent different crop-related variations. This allows us to generate features with increased crop-related diversity in difficulty levels by simply varying the latent norm. In particular, each latent code is rescaled such that its norm linearly correlates with the IoU score of the input crop w.r.t. the ground-truth box. Here the IoU score is a proxy that represents the difficulty level of the crop. We train this VAE model on base classes conditioned on the semantic code of each class and then use the trained model to generate features for novel classes. In our experiments our generated features consistently improve state-of-the-art few-shot object detection methods on the PASCAL VOC and MS COCO datasets. 

**Title:** One-Shot High-Fidelity Talking-Head Synthesis with Deformable Neural  Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05097

**Abstract:** Talking head generation aims to generate faces that maintain the identity information of the source image and imitate the motion of the driving image. Most pioneering methods rely primarily on 2D representations and thus will inevitably suffer from face distortion when large head rotations are encountered. Recent works instead employ explicit 3D structural representations or implicit neural rendering to improve performance under large pose changes. Nevertheless, the fidelity of identity and expression is not so desirable, especially for novel-view synthesis. In this paper, we propose HiDe-NeRF, which achieves high-fidelity and free-view talking-head synthesis. Drawing on the recently proposed Deformable Neural Radiance Fields, HiDe-NeRF represents the 3D dynamic scene into a canonical appearance field and an implicit deformation field, where the former comprises the canonical source face and the latter models the driving pose and expression. In particular, we improve fidelity from two aspects: (i) to enhance identity expressiveness, we design a generalized appearance module that leverages multi-scale volume features to preserve face shape and details; (ii) to improve expression preciseness, we propose a lightweight deformation module that explicitly decouples the pose and expression to enable precise expression modeling. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed approach can generate better results than previous works. Project page: https://www.waytron.net/hidenerf/ 

**Title:** Video Event Restoration Based on Keyframes for Video Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05112

**Abstract:** Video anomaly detection (VAD) is a significant computer vision problem. Existing deep neural network (DNN) based VAD methods mostly follow the route of frame reconstruction or frame prediction. However, the lack of mining and learning of higher-level visual features and temporal context relationships in videos limits the further performance of these two approaches. Inspired by video codec theory, we introduce a brand-new VAD paradigm to break through these limitations: First, we propose a new task of video event restoration based on keyframes. Encouraging DNN to infer missing multiple frames based on video keyframes so as to restore a video event, which can more effectively motivate DNN to mine and learn potential higher-level visual features and comprehensive temporal context relationships in the video. To this end, we propose a novel U-shaped Swin Transformer Network with Dual Skip Connections (USTN-DSC) for video event restoration, where a cross-attention and a temporal upsampling residual skip connection are introduced to further assist in restoring complex static and dynamic motion object features in the video. In addition, we propose a simple and effective adjacent frame difference loss to constrain the motion consistency of the video sequence. Extensive experiments on benchmarks demonstrate that USTN-DSC outperforms most existing methods, validating the effectiveness of our method. 

**Title:** Modeling and design of heterogeneous hierarchical bioinspired spider web  structures using generative deep learning and additive manufacturing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05137

**Abstract:** Spider webs are incredible biological structures, comprising thin but strong silk filament and arranged into complex hierarchical architectures with striking mechanical properties (e.g., lightweight but high strength, achieving diverse mechanical responses). While simple 2D orb webs can easily be mimicked, the modeling and synthesis of 3D-based web structures remain challenging, partly due to the rich set of design features. Here we provide a detailed analysis of the heterogenous graph structures of spider webs, and use deep learning as a way to model and then synthesize artificial, bio-inspired 3D web structures. The generative AI models are conditioned based on key geometric parameters (including average edge length, number of nodes, average node degree, and others). To identify graph construction principles, we use inductive representation sampling of large experimentally determined spider web graphs, to yield a dataset that is used to train three conditional generative models: 1) An analog diffusion model inspired by nonequilibrium thermodynamics, with sparse neighbor representation, 2) a discrete diffusion model with full neighbor representation, and 3) an autoregressive transformer architecture with full neighbor representation. All three models are scalable, produce complex, de novo bio-inspired spider web mimics, and successfully construct graphs that meet the design objectives. We further propose algorithm that assembles web samples produced by the generative models into larger-scale structures based on a series of geometric design targets, including helical and parametric shapes, mimicking, and extending natural design principles towards integration with diverging engineering objectives. Several webs are manufactured using 3D printing and tested to assess mechanical properties. 

**Title:** Evaluating AIGC Detectors on Code Content  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05193

**Abstract:** Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC) has garnered considerable attention for its impressive performance, with ChatGPT emerging as a leading AIGC model that produces high-quality responses across various applications, including software development and maintenance. Despite its potential, the misuse of ChatGPT poses significant concerns, especially in education and safetycritical domains. Numerous AIGC detectors have been developed and evaluated on natural language data. However, their performance on code-related content generated by ChatGPT remains unexplored. To fill this gap, in this paper, we present the first empirical study on evaluating existing AIGC detectors in the software domain. We created a comprehensive dataset including 492.5K samples comprising code-related content produced by ChatGPT, encompassing popular software activities like Q&A (115K), code summarization (126K), and code generation (226.5K). We evaluated six AIGC detectors, including three commercial and three open-source solutions, assessing their performance on this dataset. Additionally, we conducted a human study to understand human detection capabilities and compare them with the existing AIGC detectors. Our results indicate that AIGC detectors demonstrate lower performance on code-related data compared to natural language data. Fine-tuning can enhance detector performance, especially for content within the same domain; but generalization remains a challenge. The human evaluation reveals that detection by humans is quite challenging. 

**Title:** Multi-step Jailbreaking Privacy Attacks on ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05197

**Abstract:** With the rapid progress of large language models (LLMs), many downstream NLP tasks can be well solved given good prompts. Though model developers and researchers work hard on dialog safety to avoid generating harmful content from LLMs, it is still challenging to steer AI-generated content (AIGC) for the human good. As powerful LLMs are devouring existing text data from various domains (e.g., GPT-3 is trained on 45TB texts), it is natural to doubt whether the private information is included in the training data and what privacy threats can these LLMs and their downstream applications bring. In this paper, we study the privacy threats from OpenAI's model APIs and New Bing enhanced by ChatGPT and show that application-integrated LLMs may cause more severe privacy threats ever than before. To this end, we conduct extensive experiments to support our claims and discuss LLMs' privacy implications. 

**Title:** Multi-scale Fusion Fault Diagnosis Method Based on Two-Dimensionaliztion  Sequence in Complex Scenarios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05198

**Abstract:** Rolling bearings are critical components in rotating machinery, and their faults can cause severe damage. Early detection of abnormalities is crucial to prevent catastrophic accidents. Traditional and intelligent methods have been used to analyze time series data, but in real-life scenarios, sensor data is often noisy and cannot be accurately characterized in the time domain, leading to mode collapse in trained models. Two-dimensionalization methods such as the Gram angle field method (GAF) or interval sampling have been proposed, but they lack mathematical derivation and interpretability. This paper proposes an improved GAF combined with grayscale images for convolution scenarios. The main contributions include illustrating the feasibility of the approach in complex scenarios, widening the data set, and introducing an improved convolutional neural network method with a multi-scale feature fusion diffusion model and deep learning compression techniques for deployment in industrial scenarios. 

**Title:** Open Set Classification of GAN-based Image Manipulations via a ViT-based  Hybrid Architecture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05212

**Abstract:** Classification of AI-manipulated content is receiving great attention, for distinguishing different types of manipulations. Most of the methods developed so far fail in the open-set scenario, that is when the algorithm used for the manipulation is not represented by the training set. In this paper, we focus on the classification of synthetic face generation and manipulation in open-set scenarios, and propose a method for classification with a rejection option. The proposed method combines the use of Vision Transformers (ViT) with a hybrid approach for simultaneous classification and localization. Feature map correlation is exploited by the ViT module, while a localization branch is employed as an attention mechanism to force the model to learn per-class discriminative features associated with the forgery when the manipulation is performed locally in the image. Rejection is performed by considering several strategies and analyzing the model output layers. The effectiveness of the proposed method is assessed for the task of classification of facial attribute editing and GAN attribution. 

**Title:** A Billion-scale Foundation Model for Remote Sensing Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05215

**Abstract:** As the potential of foundation models in visual tasks has garnered significant attention, pretraining these models before downstream tasks has become a crucial step. The three key factors in pretraining foundation models are the pretraining method, the size of the pretraining dataset, and the number of model parameters. Recently, research in the remote sensing field has focused primarily on the pretraining method and the size of the dataset, with limited emphasis on the number of model parameters. This paper addresses this gap by examining the effect of increasing the number of model parameters on the performance of foundation models in downstream tasks such as rotated object detection and semantic segmentation. We pretrained foundation models with varying numbers of parameters, including 86M, 605.26M, 1.3B, and 2.4B, to determine whether performance in downstream tasks improved with an increase in parameters. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first billion-scale foundation model in the remote sensing field. Furthermore, we propose an effective method for scaling up and fine-tuning a vision transformer in the remote sensing field. To evaluate general performance in downstream tasks, we employed the DOTA v2.0 and DIOR-R benchmark datasets for rotated object detection, and the Potsdam and LoveDA datasets for semantic segmentation. Experimental results demonstrated that, across all benchmark datasets and downstream tasks, the performance of the foundation models and data efficiency improved as the number of parameters increased. Moreover, our models achieve the state-of-the-art performance on several datasets including DIOR-R, Postdam, and LoveDA. 

**Title:** Improving Neural Radiance Fields with Depth-aware Optimization for Novel  View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05218

**Abstract:** With dense inputs, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) is able to render photo-realistic novel views under static conditions. Although the synthesis quality is excellent, existing NeRF-based methods fail to obtain moderate three-dimensional (3D) structures. The novel view synthesis quality drops dramatically given sparse input due to the implicitly reconstructed inaccurate 3D-scene structure. We propose SfMNeRF, a method to better synthesize novel views as well as reconstruct the 3D-scene geometry. SfMNeRF leverages the knowledge from the self-supervised depth estimation methods to constrain the 3D-scene geometry during view synthesis training. Specifically, SfMNeRF employs the epipolar, photometric consistency, depth smoothness, and position-of-matches constraints to explicitly reconstruct the 3D-scene structure. Through these explicit constraints and the implicit constraint from NeRF, our method improves the view synthesis as well as the 3D-scene geometry performance of NeRF at the same time. In addition, SfMNeRF synthesizes novel sub-pixels in which the ground truth is obtained by image interpolation. This strategy enables SfMNeRF to include more samples to improve generalization performance. Experiments on two public datasets demonstrate that SfMNeRF surpasses state-of-the-art approaches. Code is available at https://github.com/XTU-PR-LAB/SfMNeRF 

**Title:** Towards preserving word order importance through Forced Invalidation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05221

**Abstract:** Large pre-trained language models such as BERT have been widely used as a framework for natural language understanding (NLU) tasks. However, recent findings have revealed that pre-trained language models are insensitive to word order. The performance on NLU tasks remains unchanged even after randomly permuting the word of a sentence, where crucial syntactic information is destroyed. To help preserve the importance of word order, we propose a simple approach called Forced Invalidation (FI): forcing the model to identify permuted sequences as invalid samples. We perform an extensive evaluation of our approach on various English NLU and QA based tasks over BERT-based and attention-based models over word embeddings. Our experiments demonstrate that Forced Invalidation significantly improves the sensitivity of the models to word order. 

**Title:** r-softmax: Generalized Softmax with Controllable Sparsity Rate  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05243

**Abstract:** Nowadays artificial neural network models achieve remarkable results in many disciplines. Functions mapping the representation provided by the model to the probability distribution are the inseparable aspect of deep learning solutions. Although softmax is a commonly accepted probability mapping function in the machine learning community, it cannot return sparse outputs and always spreads the positive probability to all positions. In this paper, we propose r-softmax, a modification of the softmax, outputting sparse probability distribution with controllable sparsity rate. In contrast to the existing sparse probability mapping functions, we provide an intuitive mechanism for controlling the output sparsity level. We show on several multi-label datasets that r-softmax outperforms other sparse alternatives to softmax and is highly competitive with the original softmax. We also apply r-softmax to the self-attention module of a pre-trained transformer language model and demonstrate that it leads to improved performance when fine-tuning the model on different natural language processing tasks. 

**Title:** Approximating Human Evaluation of Social Chatbots with Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05253

**Abstract:** Once powerful conversational models have become available for a wide audience, users started actively engaging in social interactions with this technology. Such unprecedented interaction experiences may pose considerable social and psychological risks to the users unless the technology is properly controlled. This creates an urgent need for scalable and robust evaluation metrics for conversational chatbots. Existing automatic evaluation metrics usually focus on objective quality measures and disregard subjective perceptions of social dimensions. Moreover, most of these approaches operate on pre-produced dialogs from available benchmark corpora, which implies human involvement for preparing the material for evaluation and, thus, impeded scalability of the metrics. To address this limitation, we propose to make use of the emerging large language models (LLMs) from the GPT-family and describe a new framework allowing to conduct dialog system evaluation with prompting. With this framework, we are able to achieve full automation of the evaluation pipeline and reach impressive correlation with the human judgement (up to Pearson r=0.95 on system level). The underlying concept is to collect synthetic chat logs of evaluated bots with a LLM in the other-play setting, where LLM is carefully conditioned to follow a specific scenario. We further explore different prompting approaches to produce evaluation scores with the same LLM. The best-performing prompts, containing few-show demonstrations and instructions, show outstanding performance on the tested dataset and demonstrate the ability to generalize to other dialog corpora. 

**Title:** Multi-granulariy Time-based Transformer for Knowledge Tracing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05257

**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a transformer architecture for predicting student performance on standardized tests. Specifically, we leverage students historical data, including their past test scores, study habits, and other relevant information, to create a personalized model for each student. We then use these models to predict their future performance on a given test. Applying this model to the RIIID dataset, we demonstrate that using multiple granularities for temporal features as the decoder input significantly improve model performance. Our results also show the effectiveness of our approach, with substantial improvements over the LightGBM method. Our work contributes to the growing field of AI in education, providing a scalable and accurate tool for predicting student outcomes. 

**Title:** MC-ViViT: Multi-branch Classifier-ViViT to Detect Mild Cognitive  Impairment in Older Adults using Facial Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05292

**Abstract:** Deep machine learning models including Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) have been successful in the detection of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) using medical images, questionnaires, and videos. This paper proposes a novel Multi-branch Classifier-Video Vision Transformer (MC-ViViT) model to distinguish MCI from those with normal cognition by analyzing facial features. The data comes from the I-CONECT, a behavioral intervention trial aimed at improving cognitive function by providing frequent video chats. MC-ViViT extracts spatiotemporal features of videos in one branch and augments representations by the MC module. The I-CONECT dataset is challenging as the dataset is imbalanced containing Hard-Easy and Positive-Negative samples, which impedes the performance of MC-ViViT. We propose a loss function for Hard-Easy and Positive-Negative Samples (HP Loss) by combining Focal loss and AD-CORRE loss to address the imbalanced problem. Our experimental results on the I-CONECT dataset show the great potential of MC-ViViT in predicting MCI with a high accuracy of 90.63\% accuracy on some of the interview videos. 

**Title:** OccFormer: Dual-path Transformer for Vision-based 3D Semantic Occupancy  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05316

**Abstract:** The vision-based perception for autonomous driving has undergone a transformation from the bird-eye-view (BEV) representations to the 3D semantic occupancy. Compared with the BEV planes, the 3D semantic occupancy further provides structural information along the vertical direction. This paper presents OccFormer, a dual-path transformer network to effectively process the 3D volume for semantic occupancy prediction. OccFormer achieves a long-range, dynamic, and efficient encoding of the camera-generated 3D voxel features. It is obtained by decomposing the heavy 3D processing into the local and global transformer pathways along the horizontal plane. For the occupancy decoder, we adapt the vanilla Mask2Former for 3D semantic occupancy by proposing preserve-pooling and class-guided sampling, which notably mitigate the sparsity and class imbalance. Experimental results demonstrate that OccFormer significantly outperforms existing methods for semantic scene completion on SemanticKITTI dataset and for LiDAR semantic segmentation on nuScenes dataset. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/zhangyp15/OccFormer}. 

**Title:** Toxicity in ChatGPT: Analyzing Persona-assigned Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05335

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have shown incredible capabilities and transcended the natural language processing (NLP) community, with adoption throughout many services like healthcare, therapy, education, and customer service. Since users include people with critical information needs like students or patients engaging with chatbots, the safety of these systems is of prime importance. Therefore, a clear understanding of the capabilities and limitations of LLMs is necessary. To this end, we systematically evaluate toxicity in over half a million generations of ChatGPT, a popular dialogue-based LLM. We find that setting the system parameter of ChatGPT by assigning it a persona, say that of the boxer Muhammad Ali, significantly increases the toxicity of generations. Depending on the persona assigned to ChatGPT, its toxicity can increase up to 6x, with outputs engaging in incorrect stereotypes, harmful dialogue, and hurtful opinions. This may be potentially defamatory to the persona and harmful to an unsuspecting user. Furthermore, we find concerning patterns where specific entities (e.g., certain races) are targeted more than others (3x more) irrespective of the assigned persona, that reflect inherent discriminatory biases in the model. We hope that our findings inspire the broader AI community to rethink the efficacy of current safety guardrails and develop better techniques that lead to robust, safe, and trustworthy AI systems. 

**Title:** Exploring the Use of Foundation Models for Named Entity Recognition and  Lemmatization Tasks in Slavic Languages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05336

**Abstract:** This paper describes Adam Mickiewicz University's (AMU) solution for the 4th Shared Task on SlavNER. The task involves the identification, categorization, and lemmatization of named entities in Slavic languages. Our approach involved exploring the use of foundation models for these tasks. In particular, we used models based on the popular BERT and T5 model architectures. Additionally, we used external datasets to further improve the quality of our models. Our solution obtained promising results, achieving high metrics scores in both tasks. We describe our approach and the results of our experiments in detail, showing that the method is effective for NER and lemmatization in Slavic languages. Additionally, our models for lemmatization will be available at: https://huggingface.co/amu-cai. 

**Title:** Astroformer: More Data Might Not be All You Need for Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05350

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in areas such as natural language processing and computer vision rely on intricate and massive models that have been trained using vast amounts of unlabelled or partly labeled data and training or deploying these state-of-the-art methods to resource constraint environments has been a challenge. Galaxy morphologies are crucial to understanding the processes by which galaxies form and evolve. Efficient methods to classify galaxy morphologies are required to extract physical information from modern-day astronomy surveys. In this paper, we introduce methods to learn from less amounts of data. We propose using a hybrid transformer-convolutional architecture drawing much inspiration from the success of CoAtNet and MaxViT. Concretely, we use the transformer-convolutional hybrid with a new stack design for the network, a different way of creating a relative self-attention layer, and pair it with a careful selection of data augmentation and regularization techniques. Our approach sets a new state-of-the-art on predicting galaxy morphologies from images on the Galaxy10 DECals dataset, a science objective, which consists of 17736 labeled images achieving $94.86\%$ top-$1$ accuracy, beating the current state-of-the-art for this task by $4.62\%$. Furthermore, this approach also sets a new state-of-the-art on CIFAR-100 and Tiny ImageNet. We also find that models and training methods used for larger datasets would often not work very well in the low-data regime. Our code and models will be released at a later date before the conference. 

**Title:** The Wall Street Neophyte: A Zero-Shot Analysis of ChatGPT Over  MultiModal Stock Movement Prediction Challenges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05351

**Abstract:** Recently, large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have demonstrated remarkable performance across a variety of natural language processing tasks. However, their effectiveness in the financial domain, specifically in predicting stock market movements, remains to be explored. In this paper, we conduct an extensive zero-shot analysis of ChatGPT's capabilities in multimodal stock movement prediction, on three tweets and historical stock price datasets. Our findings indicate that ChatGPT is a "Wall Street Neophyte" with limited success in predicting stock movements, as it underperforms not only state-of-the-art methods but also traditional methods like linear regression using price features. Despite the potential of Chain-of-Thought prompting strategies and the inclusion of tweets, ChatGPT's performance remains subpar. Furthermore, we observe limitations in its explainability and stability, suggesting the need for more specialized training or fine-tuning. This research provides insights into ChatGPT's capabilities and serves as a foundation for future work aimed at improving financial market analysis and prediction by leveraging social media sentiment and historical stock data. 

**Title:** Diffusion Models for Constrained Domains  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05364

**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models are a recent class of generative models which achieve state-of-the-art results in many domains such as unconditional image generation and text-to-speech tasks. They consist of a noising process destroying the data and a backward stage defined as the time-reversal of the noising diffusion. Building on their success, diffusion models have recently been extended to the Riemannian manifold setting. Yet, these Riemannian diffusion models require geodesics to be defined for all times. While this setting encompasses many important applications, it does not include manifolds defined via a set of inequality constraints, which are ubiquitous in many scientific domains such as robotics and protein design. In this work, we introduce two methods to bridge this gap. First, we design a noising process based on the logarithmic barrier metric induced by the inequality constraints. Second, we introduce a noising process based on the reflected Brownian motion. As existing diffusion model techniques cannot be applied in this setting, we derive new tools to define such models in our framework. We empirically demonstrate the applicability of our methods to a number of synthetic and real-world tasks, including the constrained conformational modelling of protein backbones and robotic arms. 

**Title:** Are Large Language Models Ready for Healthcare? A Comparative Study on  Clinical Language Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05368

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have made significant progress in various domains, including healthcare. However, the specialized nature of clinical language understanding tasks presents unique challenges and limitations that warrant further investigation. In this study, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of state-of-the-art LLMs, namely GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Bard, within the realm of clinical language understanding tasks. These tasks span a diverse range, including named entity recognition, relation extraction, natural language inference, semantic textual similarity, document classification, and question-answering. We also introduce a novel prompting strategy, self-questioning prompting (SQP), tailored to enhance LLMs' performance by eliciting informative questions and answers pertinent to the clinical scenarios at hand. Our evaluation underscores the significance of task-specific learning strategies and prompting techniques for improving LLMs' effectiveness in healthcare-related tasks. Additionally, our in-depth error analysis on the challenging relation extraction task offers valuable insights into error distribution and potential avenues for improvement using SQP. Our study sheds light on the practical implications of employing LLMs in the specialized domain of healthcare, serving as a foundation for future research and the development of potential applications in healthcare settings. 

**Title:** Can ChatGPT and Bard Generate Aligned Assessment Items? A Reliability  Analysis against Human Performance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05372

**Abstract:** ChatGPT and Bard are AI chatbots based on Large Language Models (LLM) that are slated to promise different applications in diverse areas. In education, these AI technologies have been tested for applications in assessment and teaching. In assessment, AI has long been used in automated essay scoring and automated item generation. One psychometric property that these tools must have to assist or replace humans in assessment is high reliability in terms of agreement between AI scores and human raters. In this paper, we measure the reliability of OpenAI ChatGP and Google Bard LLMs tools against experienced and trained humans in perceiving and rating the complexity of writing prompts. Intraclass correlation (ICC) as a performance metric showed that the inter-reliability of both the OpenAI ChatGPT and the Google Bard were low against the gold standard of human ratings. 

**Title:** HRS-Bench: Holistic, Reliable and Scalable Benchmark for Text-to-Image  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05390

**Abstract:** In recent years, Text-to-Image (T2I) models have been extensively studied, especially with the emergence of diffusion models that achieve state-of-the-art results on T2I synthesis tasks. However, existing benchmarks heavily rely on subjective human evaluation, limiting their ability to holistically assess the model's capabilities. Furthermore, there is a significant gap between efforts in developing new T2I architectures and those in evaluation. To address this, we introduce HRS-Bench, a concrete evaluation benchmark for T2I models that is Holistic, Reliable, and Scalable. Unlike existing bench-marks that focus on limited aspects, HRS-Bench measures 13 skills that can be categorized into five major categories: accuracy, robustness, generalization, fairness, and bias. In addition, HRS-Bench covers 50 scenarios, including fashion, animals, transportation, food, and clothes. We evaluate nine recent large-scale T2I models using metrics that cover a wide range of skills. A human evaluation aligned with 95% of our evaluations on average was conducted to probe the effectiveness of HRS-Bench. Our experiments demonstrate that existing models often struggle to generate images with the desired count of objects, visual text, or grounded emotions. We hope that our benchmark help ease future text-to-image generation research. The code and data are available at https://eslambakr.github.io/hrsbench.github.io 

**Title:** Questions of science: chatting with ChatGPT about complex systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16870

**Abstract:** We present an overview of the complex systems field using ChatGPT as a representation of the community's understanding. ChatGPT has learned language patterns and styles from a large dataset of internet texts, allowing it to provide answers that reflect common opinions, ideas, and language patterns found in the community. Our exploration covers both teaching and learning, and research topics. We recognize the value of ChatGPT as a source for the community's ideas. 

**Title:** Phase-field modeling of pitting and mechanically-assisted corrosion of  Mg alloys for biomedical applications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04762

**Abstract:** A phase-field model is developed to simulate the corrosion of Mg alloys in body fluids. The model incorporates both Mg dissolution and the transport of Mg ions in solution, naturally predicting the transition from activation-controlled to diffusion-controlled bio-corrosion. In addition to uniform corrosion, the presented framework captures pitting corrosion and accounts for the synergistic effect of aggressive environments and mechanical loading in accelerating corrosion kinetics. The model applies to arbitrary 2D and 3D geometries with no special treatment for the evolution of the corrosion front, which is described using a diffuse interface approach. Experiments are conducted to validate the model and a good agreement is attained against in vitro measurements on Mg wires. The potential of the model to capture mechano-chemical effects during corrosion is demonstrated in case studies considering Mg wires in tension and bioabsorbable coronary Mg stents subjected to mechanical loading. The proposed methodology can be used to assess the in vitro and in vivo service life of Mg-based biomedical devices and optimize the design taking into account the effect of mechanical deformation on the corrosion rate. The model has the potential to advocate further development of Mg alloys as a biodegradable implant material for biomedical applications. 

**Title:** Wav2code: Restore Clean Speech Representations via Codebook Lookup for  Noise-Robust ASR  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.04974

**Abstract:** Automatic speech recognition (ASR) has gained a remarkable success thanks to recent advances of deep learning, but it usually degrades significantly under real-world noisy conditions. Recent works introduce speech enhancement (SE) as front-end to improve speech quality, which is proved effective but may not be optimal for downstream ASR due to speech distortion problem. Based on that, latest works combine SE and currently popular self-supervised learning (SSL) to alleviate distortion and improve noise robustness. Despite the effectiveness, the speech distortion caused by conventional SE still cannot be completely eliminated. In this paper, we propose a self-supervised framework named Wav2code to implement a generalized SE without distortions for noise-robust ASR. First, in pre-training stage the clean speech representations from SSL model are sent to lookup a discrete codebook via nearest-neighbor feature matching, the resulted code sequence are then exploited to reconstruct the original clean representations, in order to store them in codebook as prior. Second, during finetuning we propose a Transformer-based code predictor to accurately predict clean codes by modeling the global dependency of input noisy representations, which enables discovery and restoration of high-quality clean representations without distortions. Furthermore, we propose an interactive feature fusion network to combine original noisy and the restored clean representations to consider both fidelity and quality, resulting in even more informative features for downstream ASR. Finally, experiments on both synthetic and real noisy datasets demonstrate that Wav2code can solve the speech distortion and improve ASR performance under various noisy conditions, resulting in stronger robustness. 

**Title:** Simulations of quantum dynamics with fermionic phase-space  representations using numerical matrix factorizations as stochastic gauges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05149

**Abstract:** The Gaussian phase-space representation can be used to implement quantum dynamics for fermionic particles numerically. To improve numerical results, we explore the use of dynamical diffusion gauges in such implementations. This is achieved by benchmarking quantum dynamics of few-body systems against independent exact solutions. A diffusion gauge is implemented here as a so-called noise-matrix, which satisfies a matrix equation defined by the corresponding Fokker--Planck equation of the phase-space representation. For the physical systems with fermionic particles considered here, the numerical evaluation of the new diffusion gauges allows us to double the practical simulation time, compared with hitherto known analytic noise-matrices. This development may have far reaching consequences for future quantum dynamical simulations of many-body systems. 

**Title:** Mask-conditioned latent diffusion for generating gastrointestinal polyp  images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05233

**Abstract:** In order to take advantage of AI solutions in endoscopy diagnostics, we must overcome the issue of limited annotations. These limitations are caused by the high privacy concerns in the medical field and the requirement of getting aid from experts for the time-consuming and costly medical data annotation process. In computer vision, image synthesis has made a significant contribution in recent years as a result of the progress of generative adversarial networks (GANs) and diffusion probabilistic models (DPM). Novel DPMs have outperformed GANs in text, image, and video generation tasks. Therefore, this study proposes a conditional DPM framework to generate synthetic GI polyp images conditioned on given generated segmentation masks. Our experimental results show that our system can generate an unlimited number of high-fidelity synthetic polyp images with the corresponding ground truth masks of polyps. To test the usefulness of the generated data, we trained binary image segmentation models to study the effect of using synthetic data. Results show that the best micro-imagewise IOU of 0.7751 was achieved from DeepLabv3+ when the training data consists of both real data and synthetic data. However, the results reflect that achieving good segmentation performance with synthetic data heavily depends on model architectures. 

**Title:** Optimal Asset Allocation in a High Inflation Regime: a Leverage-feasible  Neural Network Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05297

**Abstract:** We study the optimal multi-period asset allocation problem with leverage constraints in a persistent, high-inflation environment. Based on filtered high-inflation regimes, we discover that a portfolio containing an equal-weighted stock index partially stochastically dominates a portfolio containing a capitalization-weighted stock index. Assuming the asset prices follow the jump diffusion model during high inflation periods, we establish a closed-form solution for the optimal strategy that outperforms a passive strategy under the cumulative quadratic tracking difference (CD) objective. The closed-form solution provides insights but requires unrealistic constraints. To obtain strategies under more practical considerations, we consider a constrained optimal control problem with bounded leverage. To solve this optimal control problem, we propose a novel leverage-feasible neural network (LFNN) model that approximates the optimal control directly. The LFNN model avoids high-dimensional evaluation of the conditional expectation (common in dynamic programming (DP) approaches). We establish mathematically that the LFNN approximation can yield a solution that is arbitrarily close to the solution of the original optimal control problem with bounded leverage. Numerical experiments show that the LFNN model achieves comparable performance to the closed-form solution on simulated data. We apply the LFNN approach to a four-asset investment scenario with bootstrap resampled asset returns. The LFNN strategy consistently outperforms the passive benchmark strategy by about 200 bps (median annualized return), with a greater than 90% probability of outperforming the benchmark at the terminal date. These results suggest that during persistent inflation regimes, investors should favor short-term bonds over long-term bonds, and the equal-weighted stock index over the cap-weighted stock index. 

**Title:** Emergent autonomous scientific research capabilities of large language  models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05332

**Abstract:** Transformer-based large language models are rapidly advancing in the field of machine learning research, with applications spanning natural language, biology, chemistry, and computer programming. Extreme scaling and reinforcement learning from human feedback have significantly improved the quality of generated text, enabling these models to perform various tasks and reason about their choices. In this paper, we present an Intelligent Agent system that combines multiple large language models for autonomous design, planning, and execution of scientific experiments. We showcase the Agent's scientific research capabilities with three distinct examples, with the most complex being the successful performance of catalyzed cross-coupling reactions. Finally, we discuss the safety implications of such systems and propose measures to prevent their misuse. 

**Title:** Bayesian Optimization of Catalysts With In-context Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.05341

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) are able to do accurate classification with zero or only a few examples (in-context learning). We show a prompting system that enables regression with uncertainty for in-context learning with frozen LLM (GPT-3, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4) models, allowing predictions without features or architecture tuning. By incorporating uncertainty, our approach enables Bayesian optimization for catalyst or molecule optimization using natural language, eliminating the need for training or simulation. Here, we performed the optimization using the synthesis procedure of catalysts to predict properties. Working with natural language mitigates difficulty synthesizability since the literal synthesis procedure is the model's input. We showed that in-context learning could improve past a model context window (maximum number of tokens the model can process at once) as data is gathered via example selection, allowing the model to scale better. Although our method does not outperform all baselines, it requires zero training, feature selection, and minimal computing while maintaining satisfactory performance. We also find Gaussian Process Regression on text embeddings is strong at Bayesian optimization. The code is available in our GitHub repository: https://github.com/ur-whitelab/BO-LIFT 

