**Title:** The Role of Large Language Models in the Recognition of Territorial  Sovereignty: An Analysis of the Construction of Legitimacy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06030

**Abstract:** We examine the potential impact of Large Language Models (LLM) on the recognition of territorial sovereignty and its legitimization. We argue that while technology tools, such as Google Maps and Large Language Models (LLM) like OpenAI's ChatGPT, are often perceived as impartial and objective, this perception is flawed, as AI algorithms reflect the biases of their designers or the data they are built on. We also stress the importance of evaluating the actions and decisions of AI and multinational companies that offer them, which play a crucial role in aspects such as legitimizing and establishing ideas in the collective imagination. Our paper highlights the case of three controversial territories: Crimea, West Bank and Transnitria, by comparing the responses of ChatGPT against Wikipedia information and United Nations resolutions. We contend that the emergence of AI-based tools like LLMs is leading to a new scenario in which emerging technology consolidates power and influences our understanding of reality. Therefore, it is crucial to monitor and analyze the role of AI in the construction of legitimacy and the recognition of territorial sovereignty. 

**Title:** Social Biases through the Text-to-Image Generation Lens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06034

**Abstract:** Text-to-Image (T2I) generation is enabling new applications that support creators, designers, and general end users of productivity software by generating illustrative content with high photorealism starting from a given descriptive text as a prompt. Such models are however trained on massive amounts of web data, which surfaces the peril of potential harmful biases that may leak in the generation process itself. In this paper, we take a multi-dimensional approach to studying and quantifying common social biases as reflected in the generated images, by focusing on how occupations, personality traits, and everyday situations are depicted across representations of (perceived) gender, age, race, and geographical location. Through an extensive set of both automated and human evaluation experiments we present findings for two popular T2I models: DALLE-v2 and Stable Diffusion. Our results reveal that there exist severe occupational biases of neutral prompts majorly excluding groups of people from results for both models. Such biases can get mitigated by increasing the amount of specification in the prompt itself, although the prompting mitigation will not address discrepancies in image quality or other usages of the model or its representations in other scenarios. Further, we observe personality traits being associated with only a limited set of people at the intersection of race, gender, and age. Finally, an analysis of geographical location representations on everyday situations (e.g., park, food, weddings) shows that for most situations, images generated through default location-neutral prompts are closer and more similar to images generated for locations of United States and Germany. 

**Title:** CLIP-Guided Vision-Language Pre-training for Question Answering in 3D  Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06061

**Abstract:** Training models to apply linguistic knowledge and visual concepts from 2D images to 3D world understanding is a promising direction that researchers have only recently started to explore. In this work, we design a novel 3D pre-training Vision-Language method that helps a model learn semantically meaningful and transferable 3D scene point cloud representations. We inject the representational power of the popular CLIP model into our 3D encoder by aligning the encoded 3D scene features with the corresponding 2D image and text embeddings produced by CLIP. To assess our model's 3D world reasoning capability, we evaluate it on the downstream task of 3D Visual Question Answering. Experimental quantitative and qualitative results show that our pre-training method outperforms state-of-the-art works in this task and leads to an interpretable representation of 3D scene features. 

**Title:** $E(3) \times SO(3)$-Equivariant Networks for Spherical Deconvolution in  Diffusion MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06103

**Abstract:** We present Roto-Translation Equivariant Spherical Deconvolution (RT-ESD), an $E(3)\times SO(3)$ equivariant framework for sparse deconvolution of volumes where each voxel contains a spherical signal. Such 6D data naturally arises in diffusion MRI (dMRI), a medical imaging modality widely used to measure microstructure and structural connectivity. As each dMRI voxel is typically a mixture of various overlapping structures, there is a need for blind deconvolution to recover crossing anatomical structures such as white matter tracts. Existing dMRI work takes either an iterative or deep learning approach to sparse spherical deconvolution, yet it typically does not account for relationships between neighboring measurements. This work constructs equivariant deep learning layers which respect to symmetries of spatial rotations, reflections, and translations, alongside the symmetries of voxelwise spherical rotations. As a result, RT-ESD improves on previous work across several tasks including fiber recovery on the DiSCo dataset, deconvolution-derived partial volume estimation on real-world \textit{in vivo} human brain dMRI, and improved downstream reconstruction of fiber tractograms on the Tractometer dataset. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/AxelElaldi/e3so3_conv 

**Title:** Generation of artificial facial drug abuse images using Deep  De-identified anonymous Dataset augmentation through Genetics Algorithm  (3DG-GA)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06106

**Abstract:** In biomedical research and artificial intelligence, access to large, well-balanced, and representative datasets is crucial for developing trustworthy applications that can be used in real-world scenarios. However, obtaining such datasets can be challenging, as they are often restricted to hospitals and specialized facilities. To address this issue, the study proposes to generate highly realistic synthetic faces exhibiting drug abuse traits through augmentation. The proposed method, called "3DG-GA", Deep De-identified anonymous Dataset Generation, uses Genetics Algorithm as a strategy for synthetic faces generation. The algorithm includes GAN artificial face generation, forgery detection, and face recognition. Initially, a dataset of 120 images of actual facial drug abuse is used. By preserving, the drug traits, the 3DG-GA provides a dataset containing 3000 synthetic facial drug abuse images. The dataset will be open to the scientific community, which can reproduce our results and benefit from the generated datasets while avoiding legal or ethical restrictions. 

**Title:** PATMAT: Person Aware Tuning of Mask-Aware Transformer for Face  Inpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06107

**Abstract:** Generative models such as StyleGAN2 and Stable Diffusion have achieved state-of-the-art performance in computer vision tasks such as image synthesis, inpainting, and de-noising. However, current generative models for face inpainting often fail to preserve fine facial details and the identity of the person, despite creating aesthetically convincing image structures and textures. In this work, we propose Person Aware Tuning (PAT) of Mask-Aware Transformer (MAT) for face inpainting, which addresses this issue. Our proposed method, PATMAT, effectively preserves identity by incorporating reference images of a subject and fine-tuning a MAT architecture trained on faces. By using ~40 reference images, PATMAT creates anchor points in MAT's style module, and tunes the model using the fixed anchors to adapt the model to a new face identity. Moreover, PATMAT's use of multiple images per anchor during training allows the model to use fewer reference images than competing methods. We demonstrate that PATMAT outperforms state-of-the-art models in terms of image quality, the preservation of person-specific details, and the identity of the subject. Our results suggest that PATMAT can be a promising approach for improving the quality of personalized face inpainting. 

**Title:** Analyzing ChatGPT's Aptitude in an Introductory Computer Engineering  Course  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06122

**Abstract:** ChatGPT has recently gathered attention from the general public and academia as a tool that is able to generate plausible and human-sounding text answers to various questions. One potential use, or abuse, of ChatGPT is in answering various questions or even generating whole essays and research papers in an academic or classroom setting. While recent works have explored the use of ChatGPT in the context of humanities, business school, or medical school, this work explores how ChatGPT performs in the context of an introductory computer engineering course. This work assesses ChatGPT's aptitude in answering quizzes, homework, exam, and laboratory questions in an introductory-level computer engineering course. This work finds that ChatGPT can do well on questions asking about generic concepts. However, predictably, as a text-only tool, it cannot handle questions with diagrams or figures, nor can it generate diagrams and figures. Further, also clearly, the tool cannot do hands-on lab experiments, breadboard assembly, etc., but can generate plausible answers to some laboratory manual questions. One of the key observations presented in this work is that the ChatGPT tool could not be used to pass all components of the course. Nevertheless, it does well on quizzes and short-answer questions. On the other hand, plausible, human-sounding answers could confuse students when generating incorrect but still plausible answers. 

**Title:** The Impact of Large Language Multi-Modal Models on the Future of Job  Market  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06123

**Abstract:** The rapid advancements in artificial intelligence, particularly in large language multi-modal models like GPT-4, have raised concerns about the potential displacement of human workers in various industries. This position paper aims to analyze the current state of job replacement by AI models and explores potential implications and strategies for a balanced coexistence between AI and human workers. 

**Title:** AI-assisted Protective Action: Study of ChatGPT as an Information Source  for a Population Facing Climate Hazards  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06124

**Abstract:** ChatGPT has been emerging as a novel information source, and it is likely that the public might seek information from ChatGPT while taking protective actions when facing climate hazards such as floods and hurricanes. The objective of this study is to evaluate the accuracy and completeness of responses generated by ChatGPT when individuals seek information about aspects of taking protective actions. The survey analysis results indicated that: (1) the emergency managers considered the responses provided by ChatGPT as accurate and complete to a great extent; (2) it was statistically verified in evaluations that the generated information was accurate, but lacked completeness, implying that the extent of information provided is accurate; and (3) information generated for prompts related to hazard insurance received the highest evaluation, whereas the information generated related to evacuation received the lowest. This last result implies that, for complex, context-specific protective actions (such as evacuation), the information was rated as less complete compared with other protective actions. Also, the results showed that the perception of respondents regarding the utility of AI- assistive technologies (such as ChatGPT) for emergency preparedness and response improved after taking the survey and evaluating the information generated by ChatGPT. The findings from this study provide empirical evaluation regarding the utility of AI-assistive technologies for improving public decision-making and protective actions in disasters. 

**Title:** Towards Evaluating Explanations of Vision Transformers for Medical  Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06133

**Abstract:** As deep learning models increasingly find applications in critical domains such as medical imaging, the need for transparent and trustworthy decision-making becomes paramount. Many explainability methods provide insights into how these models make predictions by attributing importance to input features. As Vision Transformer (ViT) becomes a promising alternative to convolutional neural networks for image classification, its interpretability remains an open research question. This paper investigates the performance of various interpretation methods on a ViT applied to classify chest X-ray images. We introduce the notion of evaluating faithfulness, sensitivity, and complexity of ViT explanations. The obtained results indicate that Layerwise relevance propagation for transformers outperforms Local interpretable model-agnostic explanations and Attention visualization, providing a more accurate and reliable representation of what a ViT has actually learned. Our findings provide insights into the applicability of ViT explanations in medical imaging and highlight the importance of using appropriate evaluation criteria for comparing them. 

**Title:** An Edit Friendly DDPM Noise Space: Inversion and Manipulations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06140

**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) employ a sequence of white Gaussian noise samples to generate an image. In analogy with GANs, those noise maps could be considered as the latent code associated with the generated image. However, this native noise space does not possess a convenient structure, and is thus challenging to work with in editing tasks. Here, we propose an alternative latent noise space for DDPM that enables a wide range of editing operations via simple means, and present an inversion method for extracting these edit-friendly noise maps for any given image (real or synthetically generated). As opposed to the native DDPM noise space, the edit-friendly noise maps do not have a standard normal distribution and are not statistically independent across timesteps. However, they allow perfect reconstruction of any desired image, and simple transformations on them translate into meaningful manipulations of the output image (e.g., shifting, color edits). Moreover, in text-conditional models, fixing those noise maps while changing the text prompt, modifies semantics while retaining structure. We illustrate how this property enables text-based editing of real images via the diverse DDPM sampling scheme (in contrast to the popular non-diverse DDIM inversion). We also show how it can be used within existing diffusion-based editing methods to improve their quality and diversity. 

**Title:** Detection of Fake Generated Scientific Abstracts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06148

**Abstract:** The widespread adoption of Large Language Models and publicly available ChatGPT has marked a significant turning point in the integration of Artificial Intelligence into people's everyday lives. The academic community has taken notice of these technological advancements and has expressed concerns regarding the difficulty of discriminating between what is real and what is artificially generated. Thus, researchers have been working on developing effective systems to identify machine-generated text. In this study, we utilize the GPT-3 model to generate scientific paper abstracts through Artificial Intelligence and explore various text representation methods when combined with Machine Learning models with the aim of identifying machine-written text. We analyze the models' performance and address several research questions that rise during the analysis of the results. By conducting this research, we shed light on the capabilities and limitations of Artificial Intelligence generated text. 

**Title:** [CLS] Token is All You Need for Zero-Shot Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06212

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose an embarrassingly simple yet highly effective zero-shot semantic segmentation (ZS3) method, based on the pre-trained vision-language model CLIP. First, our study provides a couple of key discoveries: (i) the global tokens (a.k.a [CLS] tokens in Transformer) of the text branch in CLIP provide a powerful representation of semantic information and (ii) these text-side [CLS] tokens can be regarded as category priors to guide CLIP visual encoder pay more attention on the corresponding region of interest. Based on that, we build upon the CLIP model as a backbone which we extend with a One-Way [CLS] token navigation from text to the visual branch that enables zero-shot dense prediction, dubbed \textbf{ClsCLIP}. Specifically, we use the [CLS] token output from the text branch, as an auxiliary semantic prompt, to replace the [CLS] token in shallow layers of the ViT-based visual encoder. This one-way navigation embeds such global category prior earlier and thus promotes semantic segmentation. Furthermore, to better segment tiny objects in ZS3, we further enhance ClsCLIP with a local zoom-in strategy, which employs a region proposal pre-processing and we get ClsCLIP+. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed ZS3 method achieves a SOTA performance, and it is even comparable with those few-shot semantic segmentation methods. 

**Title:** ShapeClipper: Scalable 3D Shape Learning from Single-View Images via  Geometric and CLIP-based Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06247

**Abstract:** We present ShapeClipper, a novel method that reconstructs 3D object shapes from real-world single-view RGB images. Instead of relying on laborious 3D, multi-view or camera pose annotation, ShapeClipper learns shape reconstruction from a set of single-view segmented images. The key idea is to facilitate shape learning via CLIP-based shape consistency, where we encourage objects with similar CLIP encodings to share similar shapes. We also leverage off-the-shelf normals as an additional geometric constraint so the model can learn better bottom-up reasoning of detailed surface geometry. These two novel consistency constraints, when used to regularize our model, improve its ability to learn both global shape structure and local geometric details. We evaluate our method over three challenging real-world datasets, Pix3D, Pascal3D+, and OpenImages, where we achieve superior performance over state-of-the-art methods. 

**Title:** RSIR Transformer: Hierarchical Vision Transformer using Random Sampling  Windows and Important Region Windows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06250

**Abstract:** Recently, Transformers have shown promising performance in various vision tasks. However, the high costs of global self-attention remain challenging for Transformers, especially for high-resolution vision tasks. Local self-attention runs attention computation within a limited region for the sake of efficiency, resulting in insufficient context modeling as their receptive fields are small. In this work, we introduce two new attention modules to enhance the global modeling capability of the hierarchical vision transformer, namely, random sampling windows (RS-Win) and important region windows (IR-Win). Specifically, RS-Win sample random image patches to compose the window, following a uniform distribution, i.e., the patches in RS-Win can come from any position in the image. IR-Win composes the window according to the weights of the image patches in the attention map. Notably, RS-Win is able to capture global information throughout the entire model, even in earlier, high-resolution stages. IR-Win enables the self-attention module to focus on important regions of the image and capture more informative features. Incorporated with these designs, RSIR-Win Transformer demonstrates competitive performance on common vision tasks. 

**Title:** EWT: Efficient Wavelet-Transformer for Single Image Denoising  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06274

**Abstract:** Transformer-based image denoising methods have achieved encouraging results in the past year. However, it must uses linear operations to model long-range dependencies, which greatly increases model inference time and consumes GPU storage space. Compared with convolutional neural network-based methods, current Transformer-based image denoising methods cannot achieve a balance between performance improvement and resource consumption. In this paper, we propose an Efficient Wavelet Transformer (EWT) for image denoising. Specifically, we use Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and Inverse Wavelet Transform (IWT) for downsampling and upsampling, respectively. This method can fully preserve the image features while reducing the image resolution, thereby greatly reducing the device resource consumption of the Transformer model. Furthermore, we propose a novel Dual-stream Feature Extraction Block (DFEB) to extract image features at different levels, which can further reduce model inference time and GPU memory usage. Experiments show that our method speeds up the original Transformer by more than 80%, reduces GPU memory usage by more than 60%, and achieves excellent denoising results. All code will be public. 

**Title:** NeRFVS: Neural Radiance Fields for Free View Synthesis via Geometry  Scaffolds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06287

**Abstract:** We present NeRFVS, a novel neural radiance fields (NeRF) based method to enable free navigation in a room. NeRF achieves impressive performance in rendering images for novel views similar to the input views while suffering for novel views that are significantly different from the training views. To address this issue, we utilize the holistic priors, including pseudo depth maps and view coverage information, from neural reconstruction to guide the learning of implicit neural representations of 3D indoor scenes. Concretely, an off-the-shelf neural reconstruction method is leveraged to generate a geometry scaffold. Then, two loss functions based on the holistic priors are proposed to improve the learning of NeRF: 1) A robust depth loss that can tolerate the error of the pseudo depth map to guide the geometry learning of NeRF; 2) A variance loss to regularize the variance of implicit neural representations to reduce the geometry and color ambiguity in the learning procedure. These two loss functions are modulated during NeRF optimization according to the view coverage information to reduce the negative influence brought by the view coverage imbalance. Extensive results demonstrate that our NeRFVS outperforms state-of-the-art view synthesis methods quantitatively and qualitatively on indoor scenes, achieving high-fidelity free navigation results. 

**Title:** ALR-GAN: Adaptive Layout Refinement for Text-to-Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06297

**Abstract:** We propose a novel Text-to-Image Generation Network, Adaptive Layout Refinement Generative Adversarial Network (ALR-GAN), to adaptively refine the layout of synthesized images without any auxiliary information. The ALR-GAN includes an Adaptive Layout Refinement (ALR) module and a Layout Visual Refinement (LVR) loss. The ALR module aligns the layout structure (which refers to locations of objects and background) of a synthesized image with that of its corresponding real image. In ALR module, we proposed an Adaptive Layout Refinement (ALR) loss to balance the matching of hard and easy features, for more efficient layout structure matching. Based on the refined layout structure, the LVR loss further refines the visual representation within the layout area. Experimental results on two widely-used datasets show that ALR-GAN performs competitively at the Text-to-Image generation task. 

**Title:** DDT: Dual-branch Deformable Transformer for Image Denoising  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06346

**Abstract:** Transformer is beneficial for image denoising tasks since it can model long-range dependencies to overcome the limitations presented by inductive convolutional biases. However, directly applying the transformer structure to remove noise is challenging because its complexity grows quadratically with the spatial resolution. In this paper, we propose an efficient Dual-branch Deformable Transformer (DDT) denoising network which captures both local and global interactions in parallel. We divide features with a fixed patch size and a fixed number of patches in local and global branches, respectively. In addition, we apply deformable attention operation in both branches, which helps the network focus on more important regions and further reduces computational complexity. We conduct extensive experiments on real-world and synthetic denoising tasks, and the proposed DDT achieves state-of-the-art performance with significantly fewer computational costs. 

**Title:** Context-aware Coherent Speaking Style Prediction with Hierarchical  Transformers for Audiobook Speech Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06359

**Abstract:** Recent advances in text-to-speech have significantly improved the expressiveness of synthesized speech. However, it is still challenging to generate speech with contextually appropriate and coherent speaking style for multi-sentence text in audiobooks. In this paper, we propose a context-aware coherent speaking style prediction method for audiobook speech synthesis. To predict the style embedding of the current utterance, a hierarchical transformer-based context-aware style predictor with a mixture attention mask is designed, considering both text-side context information and speech-side style information of previous speeches. Based on this, we can generate long-form speech with coherent style and prosody sentence by sentence. Objective and subjective evaluations on a Mandarin audiobook dataset demonstrate that our proposed model can generate speech with more expressive and coherent speaking style than baselines, for both single-sentence and multi-sentence test. 

**Title:** AGIEval: A Human-Centric Benchmark for Evaluating Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06364

**Abstract:** Evaluating the general abilities of foundation models to tackle human-level tasks is a vital aspect of their development and application in the pursuit of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). Traditional benchmarks, which rely on artificial datasets, may not accurately represent human-level capabilities. In this paper, we introduce AGIEval, a novel benchmark specifically designed to assess foundation model in the context of human-centric standardized exams, such as college entrance exams, law school admission tests, math competitions, and lawyer qualification tests. We evaluate several state-of-the-art foundation models, including GPT-4, ChatGPT, and Text-Davinci-003, using this benchmark. Impressively, GPT-4 surpasses average human performance on SAT, LSAT, and math competitions, attaining a 95% accuracy rate on the SAT Math test and a 92.5% accuracy on the English test of the Chinese national college entrance exam. This demonstrates the extraordinary performance of contemporary foundation models. In contrast, we also find that GPT-4 is less proficient in tasks that require complex reasoning or specific domain knowledge. Our comprehensive analyses of model capabilities (understanding, knowledge, reasoning, and calculation) reveal these models' strengths and limitations, providing valuable insights into future directions for enhancing their general capabilities. By concentrating on tasks pertinent to human cognition and decision-making, our benchmark delivers a more meaningful and robust evaluation of foundation models' performance in real-world scenarios. The data, code, and all model outputs are released in https://github.com/microsoft/AGIEval. 

**Title:** TransHP: Image Classification with Hierarchical Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06385

**Abstract:** This paper explores a hierarchical prompting mechanism for the hierarchical image classification (HIC) task. Different from prior HIC methods, our hierarchical prompting is the first to explicitly inject ancestor-class information as a tokenized hint that benefits the descendant-class discrimination. We think it well imitates human visual recognition, i.e., humans may use the ancestor class as a prompt to draw focus on the subtle differences among descendant classes. We model this prompting mechanism into a Transformer with Hierarchical Prompting (TransHP). TransHP consists of three steps: 1) learning a set of prompt tokens to represent the coarse (ancestor) classes, 2) on-the-fly predicting the coarse class of the input image at an intermediate block, and 3) injecting the prompt token of the predicted coarse class into the intermediate feature. Though the parameters of TransHP maintain the same for all input images, the injected coarse-class prompt conditions (modifies) the subsequent feature extraction and encourages a dynamic focus on relatively subtle differences among the descendant classes. Extensive experiments show that TransHP improves image classification on accuracy (e.g., improving ViT-B/16 by +2.83% ImageNet classification accuracy), training data efficiency (e.g., +12.69% improvement under 10% ImageNet training data), and model explainability. Moreover, TransHP also performs favorably against prior HIC methods, showing that TransHP well exploits the hierarchical information. 

**Title:** VISION DIFFMASK: Faithful Interpretation of Vision Transformers with  Differentiable Patch Masking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06391

**Abstract:** The lack of interpretability of the Vision Transformer may hinder its use in critical real-world applications despite its effectiveness. To overcome this issue, we propose a post-hoc interpretability method called VISION DIFFMASK, which uses the activations of the model's hidden layers to predict the relevant parts of the input that contribute to its final predictions. Our approach uses a gating mechanism to identify the minimal subset of the original input that preserves the predicted distribution over classes. We demonstrate the faithfulness of our method, by introducing a faithfulness task, and comparing it to other state-of-the-art attribution methods on CIFAR-10 and ImageNet-1K, achieving compelling results. To aid reproducibility and further extension of our work, we open source our implementation: https://github.com/AngelosNal/Vision-DiffMask 

**Title:** Intriguing properties of synthetic images: from generative adversarial  networks to diffusion models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06408

**Abstract:** Detecting fake images is becoming a major goal of computer vision. This need is becoming more and more pressing with the continuous improvement of synthesis methods based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN), and even more with the appearance of powerful methods based on Diffusion Models (DM). Towards this end, it is important to gain insight into which image features better discriminate fake images from real ones. In this paper we report on our systematic study of a large number of image generators of different families, aimed at discovering the most forensically relevant characteristics of real and generated images. Our experiments provide a number of interesting observations and shed light on some intriguing properties of synthetic images: (1) not only the GAN models but also the DM and VQ-GAN (Vector Quantized Generative Adversarial Networks) models give rise to visible artifacts in the Fourier domain and exhibit anomalous regular patterns in the autocorrelation; (2) when the dataset used to train the model lacks sufficient variety, its biases can be transferred to the generated images; (3) synthetic and real images exhibit significant differences in the mid-high frequency signal content, observable in their radial and angular spectral power distributions. 

**Title:** SpectFormer: Frequency and Attention is what you need in a Vision  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06446

**Abstract:** Vision transformers have been applied successfully for image recognition tasks. There have been either multi-headed self-attention based (ViT \cite{dosovitskiy2020image}, DeIT, \cite{touvron2021training}) similar to the original work in textual models or more recently based on spectral layers (Fnet\cite{lee2021fnet}, GFNet\cite{rao2021global}, AFNO\cite{guibas2021efficient}). We hypothesize that both spectral and multi-headed attention plays a major role. We investigate this hypothesis through this work and observe that indeed combining spectral and multi-headed attention layers provides a better transformer architecture. We thus propose the novel Spectformer architecture for transformers that combines spectral and multi-headed attention layers. We believe that the resulting representation allows the transformer to capture the feature representation appropriately and it yields improved performance over other transformer representations. For instance, it improves the top-1 accuracy by 2\% on ImageNet compared to both GFNet-H and LiT. SpectFormer-S reaches 84.25\% top-1 accuracy on ImageNet-1K (state of the art for small version). Further, Spectformer-L achieves 85.7\% that is the state of the art for the comparable base version of the transformers. We further ensure that we obtain reasonable results in other scenarios such as transfer learning on standard datasets such as CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, Oxford-IIIT-flower, and Standford Car datasets. We then investigate its use in downstream tasks such of object detection and instance segmentation on the MS-COCO dataset and observe that Spectformer shows consistent performance that is comparable to the best backbones and can be further optimized and improved. Hence, we believe that combined spectral and attention layers are what are needed for vision transformers. 

**Title:** Analysing Fairness of Privacy-Utility Mobility Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06469

**Abstract:** Preserving the individuals' privacy in sharing spatial-temporal datasets is critical to prevent re-identification attacks based on unique trajectories. Existing privacy techniques tend to propose ideal privacy-utility tradeoffs, however, largely ignore the fairness implications of mobility models and whether such techniques perform equally for different groups of users. The quantification between fairness and privacy-aware models is still unclear and there barely exists any defined sets of metrics for measuring fairness in the spatial-temporal context. In this work, we define a set of fairness metrics designed explicitly for human mobility, based on structural similarity and entropy of the trajectories. Under these definitions, we examine the fairness of two state-of-the-art privacy-preserving models that rely on GAN and representation learning to reduce the re-identification rate of users for data sharing. Our results show that while both models guarantee group fairness in terms of demographic parity, they violate individual fairness criteria, indicating that users with highly similar trajectories receive disparate privacy gain. We conclude that the tension between the re-identification task and individual fairness needs to be considered for future spatial-temporal data analysis and modelling to achieve a privacy-preserving fairness-aware setting. 

**Title:** One Small Step for Generative AI, One Giant Leap for AGI: A Complete  Survey on ChatGPT in AIGC Era  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06488

**Abstract:** OpenAI has recently released GPT-4 (a.k.a. ChatGPT plus), which is demonstrated to be one small step for generative AI (GAI), but one giant leap for artificial general intelligence (AGI). Since its official release in November 2022, ChatGPT has quickly attracted numerous users with extensive media coverage. Such unprecedented attention has also motivated numerous researchers to investigate ChatGPT from various aspects. According to Google scholar, there are more than 500 articles with ChatGPT in their titles or mentioning it in their abstracts. Considering this, a review is urgently needed, and our work fills this gap. Overall, this work is the first to survey ChatGPT with a comprehensive review of its underlying technology, applications, and challenges. Moreover, we present an outlook on how ChatGPT might evolve to realize general-purpose AIGC (a.k.a. AI-generated content), which will be a significant milestone for the development of AGI. 

**Title:** NeRD: Neural field-based Demosaicking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06566

**Abstract:** We introduce NeRD, a new demosaicking method for generating full-color images from Bayer patterns. Our approach leverages advancements in neural fields to perform demosaicking by representing an image as a coordinate-based neural network with sine activation functions. The inputs to the network are spatial coordinates and a low-resolution Bayer pattern, while the outputs are the corresponding RGB values. An encoder network, which is a blend of ResNet and U-net, enhances the implicit neural representation of the image to improve its quality and ensure spatial consistency through prior learning. Our experimental results demonstrate that NeRD outperforms traditional and state-of-the-art CNN-based methods and significantly closes the gap to transformer-based methods. 

**Title:** ChatGPT-4 Outperforms Experts and Crowd Workers in Annotating Political  Twitter Messages with Zero-Shot Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06588

**Abstract:** This paper assesses the accuracy, reliability and bias of the Large Language Model (LLM) ChatGPT-4 on the text analysis task of classifying the political affiliation of a Twitter poster based on the content of a tweet. The LLM is compared to manual annotation by both expert classifiers and crowd workers, generally considered the gold standard for such tasks. We use Twitter messages from United States politicians during the 2020 election, providing a ground truth against which to measure accuracy. The paper finds that ChatGPT-4 has achieves higher accuracy, higher reliability, and equal or lower bias than the human classifiers. The LLM is able to correctly annotate messages that require reasoning on the basis of contextual knowledge, and inferences around the author's intentions - traditionally seen as uniquely human abilities. These findings suggest that LLM will have substantial impact on the use of textual data in the social sciences, by enabling interpretive research at a scale. 

**Title:** Lossless Adaptation of Pretrained Vision Models For Robotic Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06600

**Abstract:** Recent works have shown that large models pretrained on common visual learning tasks can provide useful representations for a wide range of specialized perception problems, as well as a variety of robotic manipulation tasks. While prior work on robotic manipulation has predominantly used frozen pretrained features, we demonstrate that in robotics this approach can fail to reach optimal performance, and that fine-tuning of the full model can lead to significantly better results. Unfortunately, fine-tuning disrupts the pretrained visual representation, and causes representational drift towards the fine-tuned task thus leading to a loss of the versatility of the original model. We introduce "lossless adaptation" to address this shortcoming of classical fine-tuning. We demonstrate that appropriate placement of our parameter efficient adapters can significantly reduce the performance gap between frozen pretrained representations and full end-to-end fine-tuning without changes to the original representation and thus preserving original capabilities of the pretrained model. We perform a comprehensive investigation across three major model architectures (ViTs, NFNets, and ResNets), supervised (ImageNet-1K classification) and self-supervised pretrained weights (CLIP, BYOL, Visual MAE) in 3 task domains and 35 individual tasks, and demonstrate that our claims are strongly validated in various settings. 

**Title:** DiffFit: Unlocking Transferability of Large Diffusion Models via Simple  Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06648

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have proven to be highly effective in generating high-quality images. However, adapting large pre-trained diffusion models to new domains remains an open challenge, which is critical for real-world applications. This paper proposes DiffFit, a parameter-efficient strategy to fine-tune large pre-trained diffusion models that enable fast adaptation to new domains. DiffFit is embarrassingly simple that only fine-tunes the bias term and newly-added scaling factors in specific layers, yet resulting in significant training speed-up and reduced model storage costs. Compared with full fine-tuning, DiffFit achieves 2$\times$ training speed-up and only needs to store approximately 0.12\% of the total model parameters. Intuitive theoretical analysis has been provided to justify the efficacy of scaling factors on fast adaptation. On 8 downstream datasets, DiffFit achieves superior or competitive performances compared to the full fine-tuning while being more efficient. Remarkably, we show that DiffFit can adapt a pre-trained low-resolution generative model to a high-resolution one by adding minimal cost. Among diffusion-based methods, DiffFit sets a new state-of-the-art FID of 3.02 on ImageNet 512$\times$512 benchmark by fine-tuning only 25 epochs from a public pre-trained ImageNet 256$\times$256 checkpoint while being 30$\times$ more training efficient than the closest competitor. 

**Title:** DynaMITe: Dynamic Query Bootstrapping for Multi-object Interactive  Segmentation Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06668

**Abstract:** Most state-of-the-art instance segmentation methods rely on large amounts of pixel-precise ground-truth annotations for training, which are expensive to create. Interactive segmentation networks help generate such annotations based on an image and the corresponding user interactions such as clicks. Existing methods for this task can only process a single instance at a time and each user interaction requires a full forward pass through the entire deep network. We introduce a more efficient approach, called DynaMITe, in which we represent user interactions as spatio-temporal queries to a Transformer decoder with a potential to segment multiple object instances in a single iteration. Our architecture also alleviates any need to re-compute image features during refinement, and requires fewer interactions for segmenting multiple instances in a single image when compared to other methods. DynaMITe achieves state-of-the-art results on multiple existing interactive segmentation benchmarks, and also on the new multi-instance benchmark that we propose in this paper. 

**Title:** Improving novelty detection with generative adversarial networks on hand  gesture data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06696

**Abstract:** We propose a novel way of solving the issue of classification of out-of-vocabulary gestures using Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) trained in the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) framework. A generative model augments the data set in an online fashion with new samples and stochastic target vectors, while a discriminative model determines the class of the samples. The approach was evaluated on the UC2017 SG and UC2018 DualMyo data sets. The generative models performance was measured with a distance metric between generated and real samples. The discriminative models were evaluated by their accuracy on trained and novel classes. In terms of sample generation quality, the GAN is significantly better than a random distribution (noise) in mean distance, for all classes. In the classification tests, the baseline neural network was not capable of identifying untrained gestures. When the proposed methodology was implemented, we found that there is a trade-off between the detection of trained and untrained gestures, with some trained samples being mistaken as novelty. Nevertheless, a novelty detection accuracy of 95.4% or 90.2% (depending on the data set) was achieved with just 5% loss of accuracy on trained classes. 

**Title:** Learning Controllable 3D Diffusion Models from Single-view Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06700

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have recently become the de-facto approach for generative modeling in the 2D domain. However, extending diffusion models to 3D is challenging due to the difficulties in acquiring 3D ground truth data for training. On the other hand, 3D GANs that integrate implicit 3D representations into GANs have shown remarkable 3D-aware generation when trained only on single-view image datasets. However, 3D GANs do not provide straightforward ways to precisely control image synthesis. To address these challenges, We present Control3Diff, a 3D diffusion model that combines the strengths of diffusion models and 3D GANs for versatile, controllable 3D-aware image synthesis for single-view datasets. Control3Diff explicitly models the underlying latent distribution (optionally conditioned on external inputs), thus enabling direct control during the diffusion process. Moreover, our approach is general and applicable to any type of controlling input, allowing us to train it with the same diffusion objective without any auxiliary supervision. We validate the efficacy of Control3Diff on standard image generation benchmarks, including FFHQ, AFHQ, and ShapeNet, using various conditioning inputs such as images, sketches, and text prompts. Please see the project website (\url{https://jiataogu.me/control3diff}) for video comparisons. 

**Title:** Zip-NeRF: Anti-Aliased Grid-Based Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06706

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field training can be accelerated through the use of grid-based representations in NeRF's learned mapping from spatial coordinates to colors and volumetric density. However, these grid-based approaches lack an explicit understanding of scale and therefore often introduce aliasing, usually in the form of jaggies or missing scene content. Anti-aliasing has previously been addressed by mip-NeRF 360, which reasons about sub-volumes along a cone rather than points along a ray, but this approach is not natively compatible with current grid-based techniques. We show how ideas from rendering and signal processing can be used to construct a technique that combines mip-NeRF 360 and grid-based models such as Instant NGP to yield error rates that are 8% - 76% lower than either prior technique, and that trains 22x faster than mip-NeRF 360. 

**Title:** Verbs in Action: Improving verb understanding in video-language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06708

**Abstract:** Understanding verbs is crucial to modelling how people and objects interact with each other and the environment through space and time. Recently, state-of-the-art video-language models based on CLIP have been shown to have limited verb understanding and to rely extensively on nouns, restricting their performance in real-world video applications that require action and temporal understanding. In this work, we improve verb understanding for CLIP-based video-language models by proposing a new Verb-Focused Contrastive (VFC) framework. This consists of two main components: (1) leveraging pretrained large language models (LLMs) to create hard negatives for cross-modal contrastive learning, together with a calibration strategy to balance the occurrence of concepts in positive and negative pairs; and (2) enforcing a fine-grained, verb phrase alignment loss. Our method achieves state-of-the-art results for zero-shot performance on three downstream tasks that focus on verb understanding: video-text matching, video question-answering and video classification. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work which proposes a method to alleviate the verb understanding problem, and does not simply highlight it. 

**Title:** Remote Sensing Change Detection With Transformers Trained from Scratch  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06710

**Abstract:** Current transformer-based change detection (CD) approaches either employ a pre-trained model trained on large-scale image classification ImageNet dataset or rely on first pre-training on another CD dataset and then fine-tuning on the target benchmark. This current strategy is driven by the fact that transformers typically require a large amount of training data to learn inductive biases, which is insufficient in standard CD datasets due to their small size. We develop an end-to-end CD approach with transformers that is trained from scratch and yet achieves state-of-the-art performance on four public benchmarks. Instead of using conventional self-attention that struggles to capture inductive biases when trained from scratch, our architecture utilizes a shuffled sparse-attention operation that focuses on selected sparse informative regions to capture the inherent characteristics of the CD data. Moreover, we introduce a change-enhanced feature fusion (CEFF) module to fuse the features from input image pairs by performing a per-channel re-weighting. Our CEFF module aids in enhancing the relevant semantic changes while suppressing the noisy ones. Extensive experiments on four CD datasets reveal the merits of the proposed contributions, achieving gains as high as 14.27\% in intersection-over-union (IoU) score, compared to the best-published results in the literature. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/mustansarfiaz/ScratchFormer}. 

**Title:** DiffusionRig: Learning Personalized Priors for Facial Appearance Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06711

**Abstract:** We address the problem of learning person-specific facial priors from a small number (e.g., 20) of portrait photos of the same person. This enables us to edit this specific person's facial appearance, such as expression and lighting, while preserving their identity and high-frequency facial details. Key to our approach, which we dub DiffusionRig, is a diffusion model conditioned on, or "rigged by," crude 3D face models estimated from single in-the-wild images by an off-the-shelf estimator. On a high level, DiffusionRig learns to map simplistic renderings of 3D face models to realistic photos of a given person. Specifically, DiffusionRig is trained in two stages: It first learns generic facial priors from a large-scale face dataset and then person-specific priors from a small portrait photo collection of the person of interest. By learning the CGI-to-photo mapping with such personalized priors, DiffusionRig can "rig" the lighting, facial expression, head pose, etc. of a portrait photo, conditioned only on coarse 3D models while preserving this person's identity and other high-frequency characteristics. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that DiffusionRig outperforms existing approaches in both identity preservation and photorealism. Please see the project website: https://diffusionrig.github.io for the supplemental material, video, code, and data. 

**Title:** What does CLIP know about a red circle? Visual prompt engineering for  VLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06712

**Abstract:** Large-scale Vision-Language Models, such as CLIP, learn powerful image-text representations that have found numerous applications, from zero-shot classification to text-to-image generation. Despite that, their capabilities for solving novel discriminative tasks via prompting fall behind those of large language models, such as GPT-3. Here we explore the idea of visual prompt engineering for solving computer vision tasks beyond classification by editing in image space instead of text. In particular, we discover an emergent ability of CLIP, where, by simply drawing a red circle around an object, we can direct the model's attention to that region, while also maintaining global information. We show the power of this simple approach by achieving state-of-the-art in zero-shot referring expressions comprehension and strong performance in keypoint localization tasks. Finally, we draw attention to some potential ethical concerns of large language-vision models. 

**Title:** Single-Stage Diffusion NeRF: A Unified Approach to 3D Generation and  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06714

**Abstract:** 3D-aware image synthesis encompasses a variety of tasks, such as scene generation and novel view synthesis from images. Despite numerous task-specific methods, developing a comprehensive model remains challenging. In this paper, we present SSDNeRF, a unified approach that employs an expressive diffusion model to learn a generalizable prior of neural radiance fields (NeRF) from multi-view images of diverse objects. Previous studies have used two-stage approaches that rely on pretrained NeRFs as real data to train diffusion models. In contrast, we propose a new single-stage training paradigm with an end-to-end objective that jointly optimizes a NeRF auto-decoder and a latent diffusion model, enabling simultaneous 3D reconstruction and prior learning, even from sparsely available views. At test time, we can directly sample the diffusion prior for unconditional generation, or combine it with arbitrary observations of unseen objects for NeRF reconstruction. SSDNeRF demonstrates robust results comparable to or better than leading task-specific methods in unconditional generation and single/sparse-view 3D reconstruction. 

**Title:** Expressive Text-to-Image Generation with Rich Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06720

**Abstract:** Plain text has become a prevalent interface for text-to-image synthesis. However, its limited customization options hinder users from accurately describing desired outputs. For example, plain text makes it hard to specify continuous quantities, such as the precise RGB color value or importance of each word. Furthermore, creating detailed text prompts for complex scenes is tedious for humans to write and challenging for text encoders to interpret. To address these challenges, we propose using a rich-text editor supporting formats such as font style, size, color, and footnote. We extract each word's attributes from rich text to enable local style control, explicit token reweighting, precise color rendering, and detailed region synthesis. We achieve these capabilities through a region-based diffusion process. We first obtain each word's region based on cross-attention maps of a vanilla diffusion process using plain text. For each region, we enforce its text attributes by creating region-specific detailed prompts and applying region-specific guidance. We present various examples of image generation from rich text and demonstrate that our method outperforms strong baselines with quantitative evaluations. 

**Title:** Inferring Population Dynamics in Macaque Cortex  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06040

**Abstract:** The proliferation of multi-unit cortical recordings over the last two decades, especially in macaques and during motor-control tasks, has generated interest in neural "population dynamics": the time evolution of neural activity across a group of neurons working together. A good model of these dynamics should be able to infer the activity of unobserved neurons within the same population and of the observed neurons at future times. Accordingly, Pandarinath and colleagues have introduced a benchmark to evaluate models on these two (and related) criteria: four data sets, each consisting of firing rates from a population of neurons, recorded from macaque cortex during movement-related tasks. Here we show that simple, general-purpose architectures based on recurrent neural networks (RNNs) outperform more "bespoke" models, and indeed outperform all published models on all four data sets in the benchmark. Performance can be improved further still with a novel, hybrid architecture that augments the RNN with self-attention, as in transformer networks. But pure transformer models fail to achieve this level of performance, either in our work or that of other groups. We argue that the autoregressive bias imposed by RNNs is critical for achieving the highest levels of performance. We conclude, however, by proposing that the benchmark be augmented with an alternative evaluation of latent dynamics that favors generative over discriminative models like the ones we propose in this report. 

**Title:** Accurate transition state generation with an object-aware equivariant  elementary reaction diffusion model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06174

**Abstract:** Transition state (TS) search is key in chemistry for elucidating reaction mechanisms and exploring reaction networks. The search for accurate 3D TS structures, however, requires numerous computationally intensive quantum chemistry calculations due to the complexity of potential energy surfaces. Here, we developed an object-aware SE(3) equivariant diffusion model that satisfies all physical symmetries and constraints for generating pairs of structures, i.e., reactant, TS, and product, in an elementary reaction. Provided reactant and product, this model generates a TS structure in seconds instead of the hours required when performing quantum chemistry-based optimizations. The generated TS structures achieve an average error of 0.13 A root mean square deviation compared to true TS. With a confidence scoring model for uncertainty quantification, we approach an accuracy required for reaction rate estimation (2.6 kcal/mol) by only performing quantum chemistry-based optimizations on 14% of the most challenging reactions. We envision the proposed approach to be useful in constructing and pruning large reaction networks with unknown mechanisms. 

**Title:** Converting ECG Signals to Images for Efficient Image-text Retrieval via  Encoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06286

**Abstract:** Automated interpretation of electrocardiograms (ECG) has garnered significant attention with the advancements in machine learning methodologies. Despite the growing interest in automated ECG interpretation using machine learning, most current studies focus solely on classification or regression tasks and overlook a crucial aspect of clinical cardio-disease diagnosis: the diagnostic report generated by experienced human clinicians. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach to ECG interpretation, leveraging recent breakthroughs in Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vision-Transformer (ViT) models. Rather than treating ECG diagnosis as a classification or regression task, we propose an alternative method of automatically identifying the most similar clinical cases based on the input ECG data. Also, since interpreting ECG as images are more affordable and accessible, we process ECG as encoded images and adopt a vision-language learning paradigm to jointly learn vision-language alignment between encoded ECG images and ECG diagnosis reports. Encoding ECG into images can result in an efficient ECG retrieval system, which will be highly practical and useful in clinical applications. More importantly, our findings could serve as a crucial resource for providing diagnostic services in regions where only paper-printed ECG images are accessible due to past underdevelopment. 

**Title:** Joint optimization of a $$-VAE for ECG task-specific feature  extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06476

**Abstract:** Electrocardiography is the most common method to investigate the condition of the heart through the observation of cardiac rhythm and electrical activity, for both diagnosis and monitoring purposes. Analysis of electrocardiograms (ECGs) is commonly performed through the investigation of specific patterns, which are visually recognizable by trained physicians and are known to reflect cardiac (dis)function. In this work we study the use of $\beta$-variational autoencoders (VAEs) as an explainable feature extractor, and improve on its predictive capacities by jointly optimizing signal reconstruction and cardiac function prediction. The extracted features are then used for cardiac function prediction using logistic regression. The method is trained and tested on data from 7255 patients, who were treated for acute coronary syndrome at the Leiden University Medical Center between 2010 and 2021. The results show that our method significantly improved prediction and explainability compared to a vanilla $\beta$-VAE, while still yielding similar reconstruction performance. 

