**Title:** Shall We Pretrain Autoregressive Language Models with Retrieval? A  Comprehensive Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06762

**Abstract:** Large decoder-only language models (LMs) can be largely improved in terms of perplexity by retrieval (e.g., RETRO), but its impact on text generation quality and downstream task accuracy is unclear. Thus, it is still an open question: shall we pretrain large autoregressive LMs with retrieval? To answer it, we perform a comprehensive study on a scalable pre-trained retrieval-augmented LM (i.e., RETRO) compared with standard GPT and retrieval-augmented GPT incorporated at fine-tuning or inference stages. We first provide the recipe to reproduce RETRO up to 9.5B parameters while retrieving a text corpus with 330B tokens. Based on that, we have the following novel findings: i) RETRO outperforms GPT on text generation with much less degeneration (i.e., repetition), moderately higher factual accuracy, and slightly lower toxicity with a nontoxic retrieval database. ii) On the LM Evaluation Harness benchmark, RETRO largely outperforms GPT on knowledge-intensive tasks, but is on par with GPT on other tasks. Furthermore, we introduce a simple variant of the model, RETRO++, which largely improves open-domain QA results of original RETRO (e.g., EM score +8.6 on Natural Question) and significantly outperforms retrieval-augmented GPT across different model sizes. Our findings highlight the promising direction of pretraining autoregressive LMs with retrieval as future foundation models. We release our implementation at: https://github.com/NVIDIA/Megatron-LM#retro 

**Title:** RAFT: Reward rAnked FineTuning for Generative Foundation Model Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06767

**Abstract:** Generative foundation models are susceptible to implicit biases that can arise from extensive unsupervised training data. Such biases can produce suboptimal samples, skewed outcomes, and unfairness, with potentially significant repercussions. Consequently, aligning these models with human ethics and preferences is an essential step toward ensuring their responsible and effective deployment in real-world applications. Prior research has primarily employed Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) as a means of addressing this problem, wherein generative models are fine-tuned using RL algorithms guided by a human-feedback-informed reward model. However, the inefficiencies and instabilities associated with RL algorithms frequently present substantial obstacles to the successful alignment of generative models, necessitating the development of a more robust and streamlined approach. To this end, we introduce a new framework, Reward rAnked FineTuning (RAFT), designed to align generative models more effectively. Utilizing a reward model and a sufficient number of samples, our approach selects the high-quality samples, discarding those that exhibit undesired behavior, and subsequently assembles a streaming dataset. This dataset serves as the basis for aligning the generative model and can be employed under both offline and online settings. Notably, the sample generation process within RAFT is gradient-free, rendering it compatible with black-box generators. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our proposed algorithm exhibits strong performance in the context of both large language models and diffusion models. 

**Title:** Inpaint Anything: Segment Anything Meets Image Inpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06790

**Abstract:** Modern image inpainting systems, despite the significant progress, often struggle with mask selection and holes filling. Based on Segment-Anything Model (SAM), we make the first attempt to the mask-free image inpainting and propose a new paradigm of ``clicking and filling'', which is named as Inpaint Anything (IA). The core idea behind IA is to combine the strengths of different models in order to build a very powerful and user-friendly pipeline for solving inpainting-related problems. IA supports three main features: (i) Remove Anything: users could click on an object and IA will remove it and smooth the ``hole'' with the context; (ii) Fill Anything: after certain objects removal, users could provide text-based prompts to IA, and then it will fill the hole with the corresponding generative content via driving AIGC models like Stable Diffusion; (iii) Replace Anything: with IA, users have another option to retain the click-selected object and replace the remaining background with the newly generated scenes. We are also very willing to help everyone share and promote new projects based on our Inpaint Anything (IA). Our codes are available at https://github.com/geekyutao/Inpaint-Anything. 

**Title:** ChatGPT cites the most-cited articles and journals, relying solely on  Google Scholar's citation counts. As a result, AI may amplify the Matthew  Effect in environmental science  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06794

**Abstract:** ChatGPT (GPT) has become one of the most talked-about innovations in recent years, with over 100 million users worldwide. However, there is still limited knowledge about the sources of information GPT utilizes. As a result, we carried out a study focusing on the sources of information within the field of environmental science. In our study, we asked GPT to identify the ten most significant subdisciplines within the field of environmental science. We then asked it to compose a scientific review article on each subdiscipline, including 25 references. We proceeded to analyze these references, focusing on factors such as the number of citations, publication date, and the journal in which the work was published. Our findings indicate that GPT tends to cite highly-cited publications in environmental science, with a median citation count of 1184.5. It also exhibits a preference for older publications, with a median publication year of 2010, and predominantly refers to well-respected journals in the field, with Nature being the most cited journal by GPT. Interestingly, our findings suggest that GPT seems to exclusively rely on citation count data from Google Scholar for the works it cites, rather than utilizing citation information from other scientific databases such as Web of Science or Scopus. In conclusion, our study suggests that Google Scholar citations play a significant role as a predictor for mentioning a study in GPT-generated content. This finding reinforces the dominance of Google Scholar among scientific databases and perpetuates the Matthew Effect in science, where the rich get richer in terms of citations. With many scholars already utilizing GPT for literature review purposes, we can anticipate further disparities and an expanding gap between lesser-cited and highly-cited publications. 

**Title:** Soundini: Sound-Guided Diffusion for Natural Video Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06818

**Abstract:** We propose a method for adding sound-guided visual effects to specific regions of videos with a zero-shot setting. Animating the appearance of the visual effect is challenging because each frame of the edited video should have visual changes while maintaining temporal consistency. Moreover, existing video editing solutions focus on temporal consistency across frames, ignoring the visual style variations over time, e.g., thunderstorm, wave, fire crackling. To overcome this limitation, we utilize temporal sound features for the dynamic style. Specifically, we guide denoising diffusion probabilistic models with an audio latent representation in the audio-visual latent space. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to explore sound-guided natural video editing from various sound sources with sound-specialized properties, such as intensity, timbre, and volume. Additionally, we design optical flow-based guidance to generate temporally consistent video frames, capturing the pixel-wise relationship between adjacent frames. Experimental results show that our method outperforms existing video editing techniques, producing more realistic visual effects that reflect the properties of sound. Please visit our page: https://kuai-lab.github.io/soundini-gallery/. 

**Title:** Modeling Dense Multimodal Interactions Between Biological Pathways and  Histology for Survival Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06819

**Abstract:** Integrating whole-slide images (WSIs) and bulk transcriptomics for predicting patient survival can improve our understanding of patient prognosis. However, this multimodal task is particularly challenging due to the different nature of these data: WSIs represent a very high-dimensional spatial description of a tumor, while bulk transcriptomics represent a global description of gene expression levels within that tumor. In this context, our work aims to address two key challenges: (1) how can we tokenize transcriptomics in a semantically meaningful and interpretable way?, and (2) how can we capture dense multimodal interactions between these two modalities? Specifically, we propose to learn biological pathway tokens from transcriptomics that can encode specific cellular functions. Together with histology patch tokens that encode the different morphological patterns in the WSI, we argue that they form appropriate reasoning units for downstream interpretability analyses. We propose fusing both modalities using a memory-efficient multimodal Transformer that can model interactions between pathway and histology patch tokens. Our proposed model, SURVPATH, achieves state-of-the-art performance when evaluated against both unimodal and multimodal baselines on five datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Our interpretability framework identifies key multimodal prognostic factors, and, as such, can provide valuable insights into the interaction between genotype and phenotype, enabling a deeper understanding of the underlying biological mechanisms at play. We make our code public at: https://github.com/ajv012/SurvPath. 

**Title:** Vax-Culture: A Dataset for Studying Vaccine Discourse on Twitter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06858

**Abstract:** Vaccine hesitancy continues to be a main challenge for public health officials during the COVID-19 pandemic. As this hesitancy undermines vaccine campaigns, many researchers have sought to identify its root causes, finding that the increasing volume of anti-vaccine misinformation on social media platforms is a key element of this problem. We explored Twitter as a source of misleading content with the goal of extracting overlapping cultural and political beliefs that motivate the spread of vaccine misinformation. To do this, we have collected a data set of vaccine-related Tweets and annotated them with the help of a team of annotators with a background in communications and journalism. Ultimately we hope this can lead to effective and targeted public health communication strategies for reaching individuals with anti-vaccine beliefs. Moreover, this information helps with developing Machine Learning models to automatically detect vaccine misinformation posts and combat their negative impacts. In this paper, we present Vax-Culture, a novel Twitter COVID-19 dataset consisting of 6373 vaccine-related tweets accompanied by an extensive set of human-provided annotations including vaccine-hesitancy stance, indication of any misinformation in tweets, the entities criticized and supported in each tweet and the communicated message of each tweet. Moreover, we define five baseline tasks including four classification and one sequence generation tasks, and report the results of a set of recent transformer-based models for them. The dataset and code are publicly available at https://github.com/mrzarei5/Vax-Culture. 

**Title:** Evaluation of Social Biases in Recent Large Pre-Trained Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06861

**Abstract:** Large pre-trained language models are widely used in the community. These models are usually trained on unmoderated and unfiltered data from open sources like the Internet. Due to this, biases that we see in platforms online which are a reflection of those in society are in turn captured and learned by these models. These models are deployed in applications that affect millions of people and their inherent biases are harmful to the targeted social groups. In this work, we study the general trend in bias reduction as newer pre-trained models are released. Three recent models ( ELECTRA, DeBERTa, and DistilBERT) are chosen and evaluated against two bias benchmarks, StereoSet and CrowS-Pairs. They are compared to the baseline of BERT using the associated metrics. We explore whether as advancements are made and newer, faster, lighter models are released: are they being developed responsibly such that their inherent social biases have been reduced compared to their older counterparts? The results are compiled and we find that all the models under study do exhibit biases but have generally improved as compared to BERT. 

**Title:** Swin3D: A Pretrained Transformer Backbone for 3D Indoor Scene  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06906

**Abstract:** Pretrained backbones with fine-tuning have been widely adopted in 2D vision and natural language processing tasks and demonstrated significant advantages to task-specific networks. In this paper, we present a pretrained 3D backbone, named {\SST}, which first outperforms all state-of-the-art methods in downstream 3D indoor scene understanding tasks. Our backbone network is based on a 3D Swin transformer and carefully designed to efficiently conduct self-attention on sparse voxels with linear memory complexity and capture the irregularity of point signals via generalized contextual relative positional embedding. Based on this backbone design, we pretrained a large {\SST} model on a synthetic Structed3D dataset that is 10 times larger than the ScanNet dataset and fine-tuned the pretrained model in various downstream real-world indoor scene understanding tasks. The results demonstrate that our model pretrained on the synthetic dataset not only exhibits good generality in both downstream segmentation and detection on real 3D point datasets, but also surpasses the state-of-the-art methods on downstream tasks after fine-tuning with +2.3 mIoU and +2.2 mIoU on S3DIS Area5 and 6-fold semantic segmentation, +2.1 mIoU on ScanNet segmentation (val), +1.9 mAP@0.5 on ScanNet detection, +8.1 mAP@0.5 on S3DIS detection. Our method demonstrates the great potential of pretrained 3D backbones with fine-tuning for 3D understanding tasks. The code and models are available at https://github.com/microsoft/Swin3D . 

**Title:** 3D Feature Prediction for Masked-AutoEncoder-Based Point Cloud  Pretraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06911

**Abstract:** Masked autoencoders (MAE) have recently been introduced to 3D self-supervised pretraining for point clouds due to their great success in NLP and computer vision. Unlike MAEs used in the image domain, where the pretext task is to restore features at the masked pixels, such as colors, the existing 3D MAE works reconstruct the missing geometry only, i.e, the location of the masked points. In contrast to previous studies, we advocate that point location recovery is inessential and restoring intrinsic point features is much superior. To this end, we propose to ignore point position reconstruction and recover high-order features at masked points including surface normals and surface variations, through a novel attention-based decoder which is independent of the encoder design. We validate the effectiveness of our pretext task and decoder design using different encoder structures for 3D training and demonstrate the advantages of our pretrained networks on various point cloud analysis tasks. 

**Title:** A Unified HDR Imaging Method with Pixel and Patch Level  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06943

**Abstract:** Mapping Low Dynamic Range (LDR) images with different exposures to High Dynamic Range (HDR) remains nontrivial and challenging on dynamic scenes due to ghosting caused by object motion or camera jitting. With the success of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), several DNNs-based methods have been proposed to alleviate ghosting, they cannot generate approving results when motion and saturation occur. To generate visually pleasing HDR images in various cases, we propose a hybrid HDR deghosting network, called HyHDRNet, to learn the complicated relationship between reference and non-reference images. The proposed HyHDRNet consists of a content alignment subnetwork and a Transformer-based fusion subnetwork. Specifically, to effectively avoid ghosting from the source, the content alignment subnetwork uses patch aggregation and ghost attention to integrate similar content from other non-reference images with patch level and suppress undesired components with pixel level. To achieve mutual guidance between patch-level and pixel-level, we leverage a gating module to sufficiently swap useful information both in ghosted and saturated regions. Furthermore, to obtain a high-quality HDR image, the Transformer-based fusion subnetwork uses a Residual Deformable Transformer Block (RDTB) to adaptively merge information for different exposed regions. We examined the proposed method on four widely used public HDR image deghosting datasets. Experiments demonstrate that HyHDRNet outperforms state-of-the-art methods both quantitatively and qualitatively, achieving appealing HDR visualization with unified textures and colors. 

**Title:** MVP-SEG: Multi-View Prompt Learning for Open-Vocabulary Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06957

**Abstract:** CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining) is well-developed for open-vocabulary zero-shot image-level recognition, while its applications in pixel-level tasks are less investigated, where most efforts directly adopt CLIP features without deliberative adaptations. In this work, we first demonstrate the necessity of image-pixel CLIP feature adaption, then provide Multi-View Prompt learning (MVP-SEG) as an effective solution to achieve image-pixel adaptation and to solve open-vocabulary semantic segmentation. Concretely, MVP-SEG deliberately learns multiple prompts trained by our Orthogonal Constraint Loss (OCLoss), by which each prompt is supervised to exploit CLIP feature on different object parts, and collaborative segmentation masks generated by all prompts promote better segmentation. Moreover, MVP-SEG introduces Global Prompt Refining (GPR) to further eliminate class-wise segmentation noise. Experiments show that the multi-view prompts learned from seen categories have strong generalization to unseen categories, and MVP-SEG+ which combines the knowledge transfer stage significantly outperforms previous methods on several benchmarks. Moreover, qualitative results justify that MVP-SEG does lead to better focus on different local parts. 

**Title:** UVA: Towards Unified Volumetric Avatar for View Synthesis, Pose  rendering, Geometry and Texture Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06969

**Abstract:** Neural radiance field (NeRF) has become a popular 3D representation method for human avatar reconstruction due to its high-quality rendering capabilities, e.g., regarding novel views and poses. However, previous methods for editing the geometry and appearance of the avatar only allow for global editing through body shape parameters and 2D texture maps. In this paper, we propose a new approach named \textbf{U}nified \textbf{V}olumetric \textbf{A}vatar (\textbf{UVA}) that enables local and independent editing of both geometry and texture, while retaining the ability to render novel views and poses. UVA transforms each observation point to a canonical space using a skinning motion field and represents geometry and texture in separate neural fields. Each field is composed of a set of structured latent codes that are attached to anchor nodes on a deformable mesh in canonical space and diffused into the entire space via interpolation, allowing for local editing. To address spatial ambiguity in code interpolation, we use a local signed height indicator. We also replace the view-dependent radiance color with a pose-dependent shading factor to better represent surface illumination in different poses. Experiments on multiple human avatars demonstrate that our UVA achieves competitive results in novel view synthesis and novel pose rendering while enabling local and independent editing of geometry and appearance. The source code will be released. 

**Title:** DeePoint: Pointing Recognition and Direction Estimation From A Fixed  View  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06977

**Abstract:** In this paper, we realize automatic visual recognition and direction estimation of pointing. We introduce the first neural pointing understanding method based on two key contributions. The first is the introduction of a first-of-its-kind large-scale dataset for pointing recognition and direction estimation, which we refer to as the DP Dataset. DP Dataset consists of more than 2 million frames of over 33 people pointing in various styles annotated for each frame with pointing timings and 3D directions. The second is DeePoint, a novel deep network model for joint recognition and 3D direction estimation of pointing. DeePoint is a Transformer-based network which fully leverages the spatio-temporal coordination of the body parts, not just the hands. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of DeePoint. We believe DP Dataset and DeePoint will serve as a sound foundation for visual human intention understanding. 

**Title:** WYTIWYR: A User Intent-Aware Framework with Multi-modal Inputs for  Visualization Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06991

**Abstract:** Retrieving charts from a large corpus is a fundamental task that can benefit numerous applications such as visualization recommendations.The retrieved results are expected to conform to both explicit visual attributes (e.g., chart type, colormap) and implicit user intents (e.g., design style, context information) that vary upon application scenarios. However, existing example-based chart retrieval methods are built upon non-decoupled and low-level visual features that are hard to interpret, while definition-based ones are constrained to pre-defined attributes that are hard to extend. In this work, we propose a new framework, namely WYTIWYR (What-You-Think-Is-What-You-Retrieve), that integrates user intents into the chart retrieval process. The framework consists of two stages: first, the Annotation stage disentangles the visual attributes within the bitmap query chart; and second, the Retrieval stage embeds the user's intent with customized text prompt as well as query chart, to recall targeted retrieval result. We develop a prototype WYTIWYR system leveraging a contrastive language-image pre-training (CLIP) model to achieve zero-shot classification, and test the prototype on a large corpus with charts crawled from the Internet. Quantitative experiments, case studies, and qualitative interviews are conducted. The results demonstrate the usability and effectiveness of our proposed framework. 

**Title:** SimpLex: a lexical text simplification architecture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07002

**Abstract:** Text simplification (TS) is the process of generating easy-to-understand sentences from a given sentence or piece of text. The aim of TS is to reduce both the lexical (which refers to vocabulary complexity and meaning) and syntactic (which refers to the sentence structure) complexity of a given text or sentence without the loss of meaning or nuance. In this paper, we present \textsc{SimpLex}, a novel simplification architecture for generating simplified English sentences. To generate a simplified sentence, the proposed architecture uses either word embeddings (i.e., Word2Vec) and perplexity, or sentence transformers (i.e., BERT, RoBERTa, and GPT2) and cosine similarity. The solution is incorporated into a user-friendly and simple-to-use software. We evaluate our system using two metrics, i.e., SARI, and Perplexity Decrease. Experimentally, we observe that the transformer models outperform the other models in terms of the SARI score. However, in terms of Perplexity, the Word-Embeddings-based models achieve the biggest decrease. Thus, the main contributions of this paper are: (1) We propose a new Word Embedding and Transformer based algorithm for text simplification; (2) We design \textsc{SimpLex} -- a modular novel text simplification system -- that can provide a baseline for further research; and (3) We perform an in-depth analysis of our solution and compare our results with two state-of-the-art models, i.e., LightLS [19] and NTS-w2v [44]. We also make the code publicly available online. 

**Title:** A Diffusion model for POI recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07041

**Abstract:** Next Point-of-Interest (POI) recommendation is a critical task in location-based services that aim to provide personalized suggestions for the user's next destination. Previous works on POI recommendation have laid focused on modeling the user's spatial preference. However, existing works that leverage spatial information are only based on the aggregation of users' previous visited positions, which discourages the model from recommending POIs in novel areas. This trait of position-based methods will harm the model's performance in many situations. Additionally, incorporating sequential information into the user's spatial preference remains a challenge. In this paper, we propose Diff-POI: a Diffusion-based model that samples the user's spatial preference for the next POI recommendation. Inspired by the wide application of diffusion algorithm in sampling from distributions, Diff-POI encodes the user's visiting sequence and spatial character with two tailor-designed graph encoding modules, followed by a diffusion-based sampling strategy to explore the user's spatial visiting trends. We leverage the diffusion process and its reversed form to sample from the posterior distribution and optimized the corresponding score function. We design a joint training and inference framework to optimize and evaluate the proposed Diff-POI. Extensive experiments on four real-world POI recommendation datasets demonstrate the superiority of our Diff-POI over state-of-the-art baseline methods. Further ablation and parameter studies on Diff-POI reveal the functionality and effectiveness of the proposed diffusion-based sampling strategy for addressing the limitations of existing methods. 

**Title:** FM-Loc: Using Foundation Models for Improved Vision-based Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07058

**Abstract:** Visual place recognition is essential for vision-based robot localization and SLAM. Despite the tremendous progress made in recent years, place recognition in changing environments remains challenging. A promising approach to cope with appearance variations is to leverage high-level semantic features like objects or place categories. In this paper, we propose FM-Loc which is a novel image-based localization approach based on Foundation Models that uses the Large Language Model GPT-3 in combination with the Visual-Language Model CLIP to construct a semantic image descriptor that is robust to severe changes in scene geometry and camera viewpoint. We deploy CLIP to detect objects in an image, GPT-3 to suggest potential room labels based on the detected objects, and CLIP again to propose the most likely location label. The object labels and the scene label constitute an image descriptor that we use to calculate a similarity score between the query and database images. We validate our approach on real-world data that exhibit significant changes in camera viewpoints and object placement between the database and query trajectories. The experimental results demonstrate that our method is applicable to a wide range of indoor scenarios without the need for training or fine-tuning. 

**Title:** DCFace: Synthetic Face Generation with Dual Condition Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07060

**Abstract:** Generating synthetic datasets for training face recognition models is challenging because dataset generation entails more than creating high fidelity images. It involves generating multiple images of same subjects under different factors (\textit{e.g.}, variations in pose, illumination, expression, aging and occlusion) which follows the real image conditional distribution. Previous works have studied the generation of synthetic datasets using GAN or 3D models. In this work, we approach the problem from the aspect of combining subject appearance (ID) and external factor (style) conditions. These two conditions provide a direct way to control the inter-class and intra-class variations. To this end, we propose a Dual Condition Face Generator (DCFace) based on a diffusion model. Our novel Patch-wise style extractor and Time-step dependent ID loss enables DCFace to consistently produce face images of the same subject under different styles with precise control. Face recognition models trained on synthetic images from the proposed DCFace provide higher verification accuracies compared to previous works by $6.11\%$ on average in $4$ out of $5$ test datasets, LFW, CFP-FP, CPLFW, AgeDB and CALFW. Code is available at https://github.com/mk-minchul/dcface 

**Title:** DroidBot-GPT: GPT-powered UI Automation for Android  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07061

**Abstract:** This paper introduces DroidBot-GPT, a tool that utilizes GPT-like large language models (LLMs) to automate the interactions with Android mobile applications. Given a natural language description of a desired task, DroidBot-GPT can automatically generate and execute actions that navigate the app to complete the task. It works by translating the app GUI state information and the available actions on the smartphone screen to natural language prompts and asking the LLM to make a choice of actions. Since the LLM is typically trained on a large amount of data including the how-to manuals of diverse software applications, it has the ability to make reasonable choices of actions based on the provided information. We evaluate DroidBot-GPT with a self-created dataset that contains 33 tasks collected from 17 Android applications spanning 10 categories. It can successfully complete 39.39% of the tasks, and the average partial completion progress is about 66.76%. Given the fact that our method is fully unsupervised (no modification required from both the app and the LLM), we believe there is great potential to enhance automation performance with better app development paradigms and/or custom model training. 

**Title:** CornerFormer: Boosting Corner Representation for Fine-Grained Structured  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07072

**Abstract:** Structured reconstruction is a non-trivial dense prediction problem, which extracts structural information (\eg, building corners and edges) from a raster image, then reconstructs it to a 2D planar graph accordingly. Compared with common segmentation or detection problems, it significantly relays on the capability that leveraging holistic geometric information for structural reasoning. Current transformer-based approaches tackle this challenging problem in a two-stage manner, which detect corners in the first model and classify the proposed edges (corner-pairs) in the second model. However, they separate two-stage into different models and only share the backbone encoder. Unlike the existing modeling strategies, we present an enhanced corner representation method: 1) It fuses knowledge between the corner detection and edge prediction by sharing feature in different granularity; 2) Corner candidates are proposed in four heatmap channels w.r.t its direction. Both qualitative and quantitative evaluations demonstrate that our proposed method can better reconstruct fine-grained structures, such as adjacent corners and tiny edges. Consequently, it outperforms the state-of-the-art model by +1.9\%@F-1 on Corner and +3.0\%@F-1 on Edge. 

**Title:** Memory Efficient Diffusion Probabilistic Models via Patch-based  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07087

**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models have been successful in generating high-quality and diverse images. However, traditional models, whose input and output are high-resolution images, suffer from excessive memory requirements, making them less practical for edge devices. Previous approaches for generative adversarial networks proposed a patch-based method that uses positional encoding and global content information. Nevertheless, designing a patch-based approach for diffusion probabilistic models is non-trivial. In this paper, we resent a diffusion probabilistic model that generates images on a patch-by-patch basis. We propose two conditioning methods for a patch-based generation. First, we propose position-wise conditioning using one-hot representation to ensure patches are in proper positions. Second, we propose Global Content Conditioning (GCC) to ensure patches have coherent content when concatenated together. We evaluate our model qualitatively and quantitatively on CelebA and LSUN bedroom datasets and demonstrate a moderate trade-off between maximum memory consumption and generated image quality. Specifically, when an entire image is divided into 2 x 2 patches, our proposed approach can reduce the maximum memory consumption by half while maintaining comparable image quality. 

**Title:** Delta Denoising Score  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07090

**Abstract:** We introduce Delta Denoising Score (DDS), a novel scoring function for text-based image editing that guides minimal modifications of an input image towards the content described in a target prompt. DDS leverages the rich generative prior of text-to-image diffusion models and can be used as a loss term in an optimization problem to steer an image towards a desired direction dictated by a text. DDS utilizes the Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) mechanism for the purpose of image editing. We show that using only SDS often produces non-detailed and blurry outputs due to noisy gradients. To address this issue, DDS uses a prompt that matches the input image to identify and remove undesired erroneous directions of SDS. Our key premise is that SDS should be zero when calculated on pairs of matched prompts and images, meaning that if the score is non-zero, its gradients can be attributed to the erroneous component of SDS. Our analysis demonstrates the competence of DDS for text based image-to-image translation. We further show that DDS can be used to train an effective zero-shot image translation model. Experimental results indicate that DDS outperforms existing methods in terms of stability and quality, highlighting its potential for real-world applications in text-based image editing. 

**Title:** OPI at SemEval 2023 Task 1: Image-Text Embeddings and Multimodal  Information Retrieval for Visual Word Sense Disambiguation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07127

**Abstract:** The goal of visual word sense disambiguation is to find the image that best matches the provided description of the word's meaning. It is a challenging problem, requiring approaches that combine language and image understanding. In this paper, we present our submission to SemEval 2023 visual word sense disambiguation shared task. The proposed system integrates multimodal embeddings, learning to rank methods, and knowledge-based approaches. We build a classifier based on the CLIP model, whose results are enriched with additional information retrieved from Wikipedia and lexical databases. Our solution was ranked third in the multilingual task and won in the Persian track, one of the three language subtasks. 

**Title:** Towards Controllable Diffusion Models via Reward-Guided Exploration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07132

**Abstract:** By formulating data samples' formation as a Markov denoising process, diffusion models achieve state-of-the-art performances in a collection of tasks. Recently, many variants of diffusion models have been proposed to enable controlled sample generation. Most of these existing methods either formulate the controlling information as an input (i.e.,: conditional representation) for the noise approximator, or introduce a pre-trained classifier in the test-phase to guide the Langevin dynamic towards the conditional goal. However, the former line of methods only work when the controlling information can be formulated as conditional representations, while the latter requires the pre-trained guidance classifier to be differentiable. In this paper, we propose a novel framework named RGDM (Reward-Guided Diffusion Model) that guides the training-phase of diffusion models via reinforcement learning (RL). The proposed training framework bridges the objective of weighted log-likelihood and maximum entropy RL, which enables calculating policy gradients via samples from a pay-off distribution proportional to exponential scaled rewards, rather than from policies themselves. Such a framework alleviates the high gradient variances and enables diffusion models to explore for highly rewarded samples in the reverse process. Experiments on 3D shape and molecule generation tasks show significant improvements over existing conditional diffusion models. 

**Title:** On Data Sampling Strategies for Training Neural Network Speech  Separation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07142

**Abstract:** Speech separation remains an important area of multi-speaker signal processing. Deep neural network (DNN) models have attained the best performance on many speech separation benchmarks. Some of these models can take significant time to train and have high memory requirements. Previous work has proposed shortening training examples to address these issues but the impact of this on model performance is not yet well understood. In this work, the impact of applying these training signal length (TSL) limits is analysed for two speech separation models: SepFormer, a transformer model, and Conv-TasNet, a convolutional model. The WJS0-2Mix, WHAMR and Libri2Mix datasets are analysed in terms of signal length distribution and its impact on training efficiency. It is demonstrated that, for specific distributions, applying specific TSL limits results in better performance. This is shown to be mainly due to randomly sampling the start index of the waveforms resulting in more unique examples for training. A SepFormer model trained using a TSL limit of 4.42s and dynamic mixing (DM) is shown to match the best-performing SepFormer model trained with DM and unlimited signal lengths. Furthermore, the 4.42s TSL limit results in a 44% reduction in training time with WHAMR. 

**Title:** A Comparative Study on Generative Models for High Resolution Solar  Observation Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07169

**Abstract:** Solar activity is one of the main drivers of variability in our solar system and the key source of space weather phenomena that affect Earth and near Earth space. The extensive record of high resolution extreme ultraviolet (EUV) observations from the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) offers an unprecedented, very large dataset of solar images. In this work, we make use of this comprehensive dataset to investigate capabilities of current state-of-the-art generative models to accurately capture the data distribution behind the observed solar activity states. Starting from StyleGAN-based methods, we uncover severe deficits of this model family in handling fine-scale details of solar images when training on high resolution samples, contrary to training on natural face images. When switching to the diffusion based generative model family, we observe strong improvements of fine-scale detail generation. For the GAN family, we are able to achieve similar improvements in fine-scale generation when turning to ProjectedGANs, which uses multi-scale discriminators with a pre-trained frozen feature extractor. We conduct ablation studies to clarify mechanisms responsible for proper fine-scale handling. Using distributed training on supercomputers, we are able to train generative models for up to 1024x1024 resolution that produce high quality samples indistinguishable to human experts, as suggested by the evaluation we conduct. We make all code, models and workflows used in this study publicly available at \url{https://github.com/SLAMPAI/generative-models-for-highres-solar-images}. 

**Title:** Just Tell Me: Prompt Engineering in Business Process Management  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07183

**Abstract:** GPT-3 and several other language models (LMs) can effectively address various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, including machine translation and text summarization. Recently, they have also been successfully employed in the business process management (BPM) domain, e.g., for predictive process monitoring and process extraction from text. This, however, typically requires fine-tuning the employed LM, which, among others, necessitates large amounts of suitable training data. A possible solution to this problem is the use of prompt engineering, which leverages pre-trained LMs without fine-tuning them. Recognizing this, we argue that prompt engineering can help bring the capabilities of LMs to BPM research. We use this position paper to develop a research agenda for the use of prompt engineering for BPM research by identifying the associated potentials and challenges. 

**Title:** Sub-meter resolution canopy height maps using self-supervised learning  and a vision transformer trained on Aerial and GEDI Lidar  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07213

**Abstract:** Vegetation structure mapping is critical for understanding the global carbon cycle and monitoring nature-based approaches to climate adaptation and mitigation. Repeat measurements of these data allow for the observation of deforestation or degradation of existing forests, natural forest regeneration, and the implementation of sustainable agricultural practices like agroforestry. Assessments of tree canopy height and crown projected area at a high spatial resolution are also important for monitoring carbon fluxes and assessing tree-based land uses, since forest structures can be highly spatially heterogeneous, especially in agroforestry systems. Very high resolution satellite imagery (less than one meter (1m) ground sample distance) makes it possible to extract information at the tree level while allowing monitoring at a very large scale. This paper presents the first high-resolution canopy height map concurrently produced for multiple sub-national jurisdictions. Specifically, we produce canopy height maps for the states of California and S\~{a}o Paolo, at sub-meter resolution, a significant improvement over the ten meter (10m) resolution of previous Sentinel / GEDI based worldwide maps of canopy height. The maps are generated by applying a vision transformer to features extracted from a self-supervised model in Maxar imagery from 2017 to 2020, and are trained against aerial lidar and GEDI observations. We evaluate the proposed maps with set-aside validation lidar data as well as by comparing with other remotely sensed maps and field-collected data, and find our model produces an average Mean Absolute Error (MAE) within set-aside validation areas of 3.0 meters. 

**Title:** PARFormer: Transformer-based Multi-Task Network for Pedestrian Attribute  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07230

**Abstract:** Pedestrian attribute recognition (PAR) has received increasing attention because of its wide application in video surveillance and pedestrian analysis. Extracting robust feature representation is one of the key challenges in this task. The existing methods mainly use the convolutional neural network (CNN) as the backbone network to extract features. However, these methods mainly focus on small discriminative regions while ignoring the global perspective. To overcome these limitations, we propose a pure transformer-based multi-task PAR network named PARFormer, which includes four modules. In the feature extraction module, we build a transformer-based strong baseline for feature extraction, which achieves competitive results on several PAR benchmarks compared with the existing CNN-based baseline methods. In the feature processing module, we propose an effective data augmentation strategy named batch random mask (BRM) block to reinforce the attentive feature learning of random patches. Furthermore, we propose a multi-attribute center loss (MACL) to enhance the inter-attribute discriminability in the feature representations. In the viewpoint perception module, we explore the impact of viewpoints on pedestrian attributes, and propose a multi-view contrastive loss (MCVL) that enables the network to exploit the viewpoint information. In the attribute recognition module, we alleviate the negative-positive imbalance problem to generate the attribute predictions. The above modules interact and jointly learn a highly discriminative feature space, and supervise the generation of the final features. Extensive experimental results show that the proposed PARFormer network performs well compared to the state-of-the-art methods on several public datasets, including PETA, RAP, and PA100K. Code will be released at https://github.com/xwf199/PARFormer. 

**Title:** Evaluation of ChatGPT Model for Vulnerability Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07232

**Abstract:** In this technical report, we evaluated the performance of the ChatGPT and GPT-3 models for the task of vulnerability detection in code. Our evaluation was conducted on our real-world dataset, using binary and multi-label classification tasks on CWE vulnerabilities. We decided to evaluate the model because it has shown good performance on other code-based tasks, such as solving programming challenges and understanding code at a high level. However, we found that the ChatGPT model performed no better than a dummy classifier for both binary and multi-label classification tasks for code vulnerability detection. 

**Title:** Dynamic Mobile-Former: Strengthening Dynamic Convolution with Attention  and Residual Connection in Kernel Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07254

**Abstract:** We introduce Dynamic Mobile-Former(DMF), maximizes the capabilities of dynamic convolution by harmonizing it with efficient operators.Our Dynamic MobileFormer effectively utilizes the advantages of Dynamic MobileNet (MobileNet equipped with dynamic convolution) using global information from light-weight attention.A Transformer in Dynamic Mobile-Former only requires a few randomly initialized tokens to calculate global features, making it computationally efficient.And a bridge between Dynamic MobileNet and Transformer allows for bidirectional integration of local and global features.We also simplify the optimization process of vanilla dynamic convolution by splitting the convolution kernel into an input-agnostic kernel and an input-dependent kernel.This allows for optimization in a wider kernel space, resulting in enhanced capacity.By integrating lightweight attention and enhanced dynamic convolution, our Dynamic Mobile-Former achieves not only high efficiency, but also strong performance.We benchmark the Dynamic Mobile-Former on a series of vision tasks, and showcase that it achieves impressive performance on image classification, COCO detection, and instanace segmentation.For example, our DMF hits the top-1 accuracy of 79.4% on ImageNet-1K, much higher than PVT-Tiny by 4.3% with only 1/4 FLOPs.Additionally,our proposed DMF-S model performed well on challenging vision datasets such as COCO, achieving a 39.0% mAP,which is 1% higher than that of the Mobile-Former 508M model, despite using 3 GFLOPs less computations.Code and models are available at https://github.com/ysj9909/DMF 

**Title:** HCAM -- Hierarchical Cross Attention Model for Multi-modal Emotion  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.06910

**Abstract:** Emotion recognition in conversations is challenging due to the multi-modal nature of the emotion expression. We propose a hierarchical cross-attention model (HCAM) approach to multi-modal emotion recognition using a combination of recurrent and co-attention neural network models. The input to the model consists of two modalities, i) audio data, processed through a learnable wav2vec approach and, ii) text data represented using a bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) model. The audio and text representations are processed using a set of bi-directional recurrent neural network layers with self-attention that converts each utterance in a given conversation to a fixed dimensional embedding. In order to incorporate contextual knowledge and the information across the two modalities, the audio and text embeddings are combined using a co-attention layer that attempts to weigh the utterance level embeddings relevant to the task of emotion recognition. The neural network parameters in the audio layers, text layers as well as the multi-modal co-attention layers, are hierarchically trained for the emotion classification task. We perform experiments on three established datasets namely, IEMOCAP, MELD and CMU-MOSI, where we illustrate that the proposed model improves significantly over other benchmarks and helps achieve state-of-art results on all these datasets. 

**Title:** Cross Attention Transformers for Multi-modal Unsupervised Whole-Body PET  Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07147

**Abstract:** Cancer is a highly heterogeneous condition that can occur almost anywhere in the human body. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose is an imaging modality commonly used to detect cancer due to its high sensitivity and clear visualisation of the pattern of metabolic activity. Nonetheless, as cancer is highly heterogeneous, it is challenging to train general-purpose discriminative cancer detection models, with data availability and disease complexity often cited as a limiting factor. Unsupervised anomaly detection models have been suggested as a putative solution. These models learn a healthy representation of tissue and detect cancer by predicting deviations from the healthy norm, which requires models capable of accurately learning long-range interactions between organs and their imaging patterns with high levels of expressivity. Such characteristics are suitably satisfied by transformers, which have been shown to generate state-of-the-art results in unsupervised anomaly detection by training on normal data. This work expands upon such approaches by introducing multi-modal conditioning of the transformer via cross-attention i.e. supplying anatomical reference from paired CT. Using 294 whole-body PET/CT samples, we show that our anomaly detection method is robust and capable of achieving accurate cancer localization results even in cases where normal training data is unavailable. In addition, we show the efficacy of this approach on out-of-sample data showcasing the generalizability of this approach with limited training data. Lastly, we propose to combine model uncertainty with a new kernel density estimation approach, and show that it provides clinically and statistically significant improvements when compared to the classic residual-based anomaly maps. Overall, a superior performance is demonstrated against leading state-of-the-art alternatives, drawing attention to the potential of these approaches. 

**Title:** Optimal inference of a generalised Potts model by single-layer  transformers with factored attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07235

**Abstract:** Transformers are the type of neural networks that has revolutionised natural language processing and protein science. Their key building block is a mechanism called self-attention which is trained to predict missing words in sentences. Despite the practical success of transformers in applications it remains unclear what self-attention learns from data, and how. Here, we give a precise analytical and numerical characterisation of transformers trained on data drawn from a generalised Potts model with interactions between sites and Potts colours. While an off-the-shelf transformer requires several layers to learn this distribution, we show analytically that a single layer of self-attention with a small modification can learn the Potts model exactly in the limit of infinite sampling. We show that this modified self-attention, that we call ``factored'', has the same functional form as the conditional probability of a Potts spin given the other spins, compute its generalisation error using the replica method from statistical physics, and derive an exact mapping to pseudo-likelihood methods for solving the inverse Ising and Potts problem. 

**Title:** CAD-RADS scoring of coronary CT angiography with Multi-Axis Vision  Transformer: a clinically-inspired deep learning pipeline  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07277

**Abstract:** The standard non-invasive imaging technique used to assess the severity and extent of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) is Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography (CCTA). However, manual grading of each patient's CCTA according to the CAD-Reporting and Data System (CAD-RADS) scoring is time-consuming and operator-dependent, especially in borderline cases. This work proposes a fully automated, and visually explainable, deep learning pipeline to be used as a decision support system for the CAD screening procedure. The pipeline performs two classification tasks: firstly, identifying patients who require further clinical investigations and secondly, classifying patients into subgroups based on the degree of stenosis, according to commonly used CAD-RADS thresholds. The pipeline pre-processes multiplanar projections of the coronary arteries, extracted from the original CCTAs, and classifies them using a fine-tuned Multi-Axis Vision Transformer architecture. With the aim of emulating the current clinical practice, the model is trained to assign a per-patient score by stacking the bi-dimensional longitudinal cross-sections of the three main coronary arteries along channel dimension. Furthermore, it generates visually interpretable maps to assess the reliability of the predictions. When run on a database of 1873 three-channel images of 253 patients collected at the Monzino Cardiology Center in Milan, the pipeline obtained an AUC of 0.87 and 0.93 for the two classification tasks, respectively. According to our knowledge, this is the first model trained to assign CAD-RADS scores learning solely from patient scores and not requiring finer imaging annotation steps that are not part of the clinical routine. 

