**Title:** Hygroscopic phase field fracture modelling of composite materials  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07291

**Abstract:** This paper investigates the effect of moisture content upon the degradation behaviour of composite materials. A coupled phase field framework considering moisture diffusion, hygroscopic expansion, and fracture behaviour is developed. This multi-physics framework is used to explore the damage evolution of composite materials, spanning the micro-, meso- and macro-scales. The micro-scale unit-cell model shows how the mismatch between the hygroscopic expansion of fibre and matrix leads to interface debonding. From the meso-scale ply-level model, we learn that the distribution of fibres has a minor influence on the material properties, while increasing moisture content facilitates interface debonding. The macro-scale laminate-level model shows that moisture induces a higher degree of damage on the longitudinal ply relative to the transverse ply. This work opens a new avenue to understand and predict environmentally-assisted degradation in composite materials. 

**Title:** HGWaveNet: A Hyperbolic Graph Neural Network for Temporal Link  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07302

**Abstract:** Temporal link prediction, aiming to predict future edges between paired nodes in a dynamic graph, is of vital importance in diverse applications. However, existing methods are mainly built upon uniform Euclidean space, which has been found to be conflict with the power-law distributions of real-world graphs and unable to represent the hierarchical connections between nodes effectively. With respect to the special data characteristic, hyperbolic geometry offers an ideal alternative due to its exponential expansion property. In this paper, we propose HGWaveNet, a novel hyperbolic graph neural network that fully exploits the fitness between hyperbolic spaces and data distributions for temporal link prediction. Specifically, we design two key modules to learn the spatial topological structures and temporal evolutionary information separately. On the one hand, a hyperbolic diffusion graph convolution (HDGC) module effectively aggregates information from a wider range of neighbors. On the other hand, the internal order of causal correlation between historical states is captured by hyperbolic dilated causal convolution (HDCC) modules. The whole model is built upon the hyperbolic spaces to preserve the hierarchical structural information in the entire data flow. To prove the superiority of HGWaveNet, extensive experiments are conducted on six real-world graph datasets and the results show a relative improvement by up to 6.67% on AUC for temporal link prediction over SOTA methods. 

**Title:** Uncovering the Inner Workings of STEGO for Safe Unsupervised Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07314

**Abstract:** Self-supervised pre-training strategies have recently shown impressive results for training general-purpose feature extraction backbones in computer vision. In combination with the Vision Transformer architecture, the DINO self-distillation technique has interesting emerging properties, such as unsupervised clustering in the latent space and semantic correspondences of the produced features without using explicit human-annotated labels. The STEGO method for unsupervised semantic segmentation contrastively distills feature correspondences of a DINO-pre-trained Vision Transformer and recently set a new state of the art. However, the detailed workings of STEGO have yet to be disentangled, preventing its usage in safety-critical applications. This paper provides a deeper understanding of the STEGO architecture and training strategy by conducting studies that uncover the working mechanisms behind STEGO, reproduce and extend its experimental validation, and investigate the ability of STEGO to transfer to different datasets. Results demonstrate that the STEGO architecture can be interpreted as a semantics-preserving dimensionality reduction technique. 

**Title:** OpenAssistant Conversations -- Democratizing Large Language Model  Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07327

**Abstract:** Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences has proven to drastically improve usability and has driven rapid adoption as demonstrated by ChatGPT. Alignment techniques such as supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) greatly reduce the required skill and domain knowledge to effectively harness the capabilities of LLMs, increasing their accessibility and utility across various domains. However, state-of-the-art alignment techniques like RLHF rely on high-quality human feedback data, which is expensive to create and often remains proprietary. In an effort to democratize research on large-scale alignment, we release OpenAssistant Conversations, a human-generated, human-annotated assistant-style conversation corpus consisting of 161,443 messages distributed across 66,497 conversation trees, in 35 different languages, annotated with 461,292 quality ratings. The corpus is a product of a worldwide crowd-sourcing effort involving over 13,500 volunteers. To demonstrate the OpenAssistant Conversations dataset's effectiveness, we present OpenAssistant, the first fully open-source large-scale instruction-tuned model to be trained on human data. A preference study revealed that OpenAssistant replies are comparably preferred to GPT-3.5-turbo (ChatGPT) with a relative winrate of 48.3% vs. 51.7% respectively. We release our code and data under fully permissive licenses. 

**Title:** The Self-Perception and Political Biases of ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07333

**Abstract:** This contribution analyzes the self-perception and political biases of OpenAI's Large Language Model ChatGPT. Taking into account the first small-scale reports and studies that have emerged, claiming that ChatGPT is politically biased towards progressive and libertarian points of view, this contribution aims to provide further clarity on this subject. For this purpose, ChatGPT was asked to answer the questions posed by the political compass test as well as similar questionnaires that are specific to the respective politics of the G7 member states. These eight tests were repeated ten times each and revealed that ChatGPT seems to hold a bias towards progressive views. The political compass test revealed a bias towards progressive and libertarian views, with the average coordinates on the political compass being (-6.48, -5.99) (with (0, 0) the center of the compass, i.e., centrism and the axes ranging from -10 to 10), supporting the claims of prior research. The political questionnaires for the G7 member states indicated a bias towards progressive views but no significant bias between authoritarian and libertarian views, contradicting the findings of prior reports, with the average coordinates being (-3.27, 0.58). In addition, ChatGPT's Big Five personality traits were tested using the OCEAN test and its personality type was queried using the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) test. Finally, the maliciousness of ChatGPT was evaluated using the Dark Factor test. These three tests were also repeated ten times each, revealing that ChatGPT perceives itself as highly open and agreeable, has the Myers-Briggs personality type ENFJ, and is among the 15% of test-takers with the least pronounced dark traits. 

**Title:** Exact Subspace Diffusion for Decentralized Multitask Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07358

**Abstract:** Classical paradigms for distributed learning, such as federated or decentralized gradient descent, employ consensus mechanisms to enforce homogeneity among agents. While these strategies have proven effective in i.i.d. scenarios, they can result in significant performance degradation when agents follow heterogeneous objectives or data. Distributed strategies for multitask learning, on the other hand, induce relationships between agents in a more nuanced manner, and encourage collaboration without enforcing consensus. We develop a generalization of the exact diffusion algorithm for subspace constrained multitask learning over networks, and derive an accurate expression for its mean-squared deviation when utilizing noisy gradient approximations. We verify numerically the accuracy of the predicted performance expressions, as well as the improved performance of the proposed approach over alternatives based on approximate projections. 

**Title:** CollabCoder: A GPT-Powered Workflow for Collaborative Qualitative  Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07366

**Abstract:** The Collaborative Qualitative Analysis (CQA) process can be time-consuming and resource-intensive, requiring multiple discussions among team members to refine codes and ideas before reaching a consensus. To address these challenges, we introduce CollabCoder, a system leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) to support three CQA stages: independent open coding, iterative discussions, and the development of a final codebook. In the independent open coding phase, CollabCoder provides AI-generated code suggestions on demand, and allows users to record coding decision-making information (e.g. keywords and certainty) as support for the process. During the discussion phase, CollabCoder helps to build mutual understanding and productive discussion by sharing coding decision-making information with the team. It also helps to quickly identify agreements and disagreements through quantitative metrics, in order to build a final consensus. During the code grouping phase, CollabCoder employs a top-down approach for primary code group recommendations, reducing the cognitive burden of generating the final codebook. An evaluation involving 16 users confirmed the usability and effectiveness of CollabCoder and offered empirical insights into the LLMs' roles in CQA. 

**Title:** CoMaL: Conditional Maximum Likelihood Approach to Self-supervised Domain  Adaptation in Long-tail Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07372

**Abstract:** The research in self-supervised domain adaptation in semantic segmentation has recently received considerable attention. Although GAN-based methods have become one of the most popular approaches to domain adaptation, they have suffered from some limitations. They are insufficient to model both global and local structures of a given image, especially in small regions of tail classes. Moreover, they perform bad on the tail classes containing limited number of pixels or less training samples. In order to address these issues, we present a new self-supervised domain adaptation approach to tackle long-tail semantic segmentation in this paper. Firstly, a new metric is introduced to formulate long-tail domain adaptation in the segmentation problem. Secondly, a new Conditional Maximum Likelihood (CoMaL) approach in an autoregressive framework is presented to solve the problem of long-tail domain adaptation. Although other segmentation methods work under the pixel independence assumption, the long-tailed pixel distributions in CoMaL are generally solved in the context of structural dependency, as that is more realistic. Finally, the proposed method is evaluated on popular large-scale semantic segmentation benchmarks, i.e., "SYNTHIA to Cityscapes" and "GTA to Cityscapes", and outperforms the prior methods by a large margin in both the standard and the proposed evaluation protocols. 

**Title:** Zero-Shot Multi-Label Topic Inference with Sentence Encoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07382

**Abstract:** Sentence encoders have indeed been shown to achieve superior performances for many downstream text-mining tasks and, thus, claimed to be fairly general. Inspired by this, we performed a detailed study on how to leverage these sentence encoders for the "zero-shot topic inference" task, where the topics are defined/provided by the users in real-time. Extensive experiments on seven different datasets demonstrate that Sentence-BERT demonstrates superior generality compared to other encoders, while Universal Sentence Encoder can be preferred when efficiency is a top priority. 

**Title:** High-Order Finite Element Second Moment Methods for Linear Transport  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07386

**Abstract:** We present high-order, finite element-based Second Moment Methods (SMMs) for solving radiation transport problems in two spatial dimensions. We leverage the close connection between the Variable Eddington Factor (VEF) method and SMM to convert existing discretizations of the VEF moment system to discretizations of the SMM moment system. The moment discretizations are coupled to a high-order Discontinuous Galerkin discretization of the Discrete Ordinates transport equations. We show that the resulting methods achieve high-order accuracy on high-order (curved) meshes, preserve the thick diffusion limit, and are effective on a challenging multi-material problem both in outer fixed-point iterations and in inner preconditioned iterative solver iterations for the discrete moment systems. We also present parallel scaling results and provide direct comparisons to the VEF algorithms the SMM algorithms were derived from. 

**Title:** Fairness in Visual Clustering: A Novel Transformer Clustering Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07408

**Abstract:** Promoting fairness for deep clustering models in unsupervised clustering settings to reduce demographic bias is a challenging goal. This is because of the limitation of large-scale balanced data with well-annotated labels for sensitive or protected attributes. In this paper, we first evaluate demographic bias in deep clustering models from the perspective of cluster purity, which is measured by the ratio of positive samples within a cluster to their correlation degree. This measurement is adopted as an indication of demographic bias. Then, a novel loss function is introduced to encourage a purity consistency for all clusters to maintain the fairness aspect of the learned clustering model. Moreover, we present a novel attention mechanism, Cross-attention, to measure correlations between multiple clusters, strengthening faraway positive samples and improving the purity of clusters during the learning process. Experimental results on a large-scale dataset with numerous attribute settings have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed approach on both clustering accuracy and fairness enhancement on several sensitive attributes. 

**Title:** Text-Conditional Contextualized Avatars For Zero-Shot Personalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07410

**Abstract:** Recent large-scale text-to-image generation models have made significant improvements in the quality, realism, and diversity of the synthesized images and enable users to control the created content through language. However, the personalization aspect of these generative models is still challenging and under-explored. In this work, we propose a pipeline that enables personalization of image generation with avatars capturing a user's identity in a delightful way. Our pipeline is zero-shot, avatar texture and style agnostic, and does not require training on the avatar at all - it is scalable to millions of users who can generate a scene with their avatar. To render the avatar in a pose faithful to the given text prompt, we propose a novel text-to-3D pose diffusion model trained on a curated large-scale dataset of in-the-wild human poses improving the performance of the SOTA text-to-motion models significantly. We show, for the first time, how to leverage large-scale image datasets to learn human 3D pose parameters and overcome the limitations of motion capture datasets. 

**Title:** Identity Encoder for Personalized Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07429

**Abstract:** Many applications can benefit from personalized image generation models, including image enhancement, video conferences, just to name a few. Existing works achieved personalization by fine-tuning one model for each person. While being successful, this approach incurs additional computation and storage overhead for each new identity. Furthermore, it usually expects tens or hundreds of examples per identity to achieve the best performance. To overcome these challenges, we propose an encoder-based approach for personalization. We learn an identity encoder which can extract an identity representation from a set of reference images of a subject, together with a diffusion generator that can generate new images of the subject conditioned on the identity representation. Once being trained, the model can be used to generate images of arbitrary identities given a few examples even if the model hasn't been trained on the identity. Our approach greatly reduces the overhead for personalized image generation and is more applicable in many potential applications. Empirical results show that our approach consistently outperforms existing fine-tuning based approach in both image generation and reconstruction, and the outputs is preferred by users more than 95% of the time compared with the best performing baseline. 

**Title:** Masked Pre-Training of Transformers for Histology Image Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07434

**Abstract:** In digital pathology, whole slide images (WSIs) are widely used for applications such as cancer diagnosis and prognosis prediction. Visual transformer models have recently emerged as a promising method for encoding large regions of WSIs while preserving spatial relationships among patches. However, due to the large number of model parameters and limited labeled data, applying transformer models to WSIs remains challenging. Inspired by masked language models, we propose a pretext task for training the transformer model without labeled data to address this problem. Our model, MaskHIT, uses the transformer output to reconstruct masked patches and learn representative histological features based on their positions and visual features. The experimental results demonstrate that MaskHIT surpasses various multiple instance learning approaches by 3% and 2% on survival prediction and cancer subtype classification tasks, respectively. Furthermore, MaskHIT also outperforms two of the most recent state-of-the-art transformer-based methods. Finally, a comparison between the attention maps generated by the MaskHIT model with pathologist's annotations indicates that the model can accurately identify clinically relevant histological structures in each task. 

**Title:** Tractable Control for Autoregressive Language Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07438

**Abstract:** Despite the success of autoregressive large language models in text generation, it remains a major challenge to generate text that satisfies complex constraints: sampling from the conditional distribution $\Pr(\text{text} | \alpha)$ is intractable for even the simplest lexical constraints $\alpha$. To overcome this challenge, we propose to use tractable probabilistic models to impose lexical constraints in autoregressive text generation, which we refer to as GeLaTo. To demonstrate the effectiveness of this framework, we use distilled hidden Markov models to control autoregressive generation from GPT2. GeLaTo achieves state-of-the-art performance on CommonGen, a challenging benchmark for constrained text generation, beating a wide range of strong baselines by a large margin. Our work not only opens up new avenues for controlling large language models but also motivates the development of more expressive tractable probabilistic models. 

**Title:** Limited Diffusion of Scientific Knowledge Forecasts Collapse  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07468

**Abstract:** Market bubbles emerge when asset prices are driven higher than the ultimate value without sustainability, as dramatic events and pivots of belief can burst them. We demonstrate the same phenomenon for biomedical knowledge when promising research receives inflated attention. We predict deflationary events by developing a diffusion index that captures whether research areas have been amplified within social and scientific bubbles or have diffused and become evaluated more broadly. By applying our diffusion approach, we first showcase two contrasting trajectories of cardiac stem cell research and cancer immunotherapy. We also trace the diffusion of 28,504 subfields in biomedicine comprising nearly 1.9M papers and more than 80M citations and demonstrate that limited diffusion of biomedical knowledge anticipates abrupt decreases in popularity. Our analysis emphasizes that this restricted diffusion, or a socio-epistemic bubble, leads to a dramatic collapse in relevance and attention accorded to scientific knowledge. 

**Title:** Numerical schemes for a moving-boundary convection-diffusion-reaction  model of sequencing batch reactors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07489

**Abstract:** Sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) are devices widely used in wastewater treatment, chemical engineering, and other areas. They allow for the sedimentation and compression of solid particles of biomass simultaneously with biochemical reactions with nutrients dissolved in the liquid. The kinetics of these reactions may be given by one of the established activated sludge models (ASMx). An SBR is operated in various stages and is equipped with a movable extraction and fill device and a discharge opening. A one-dimensional model of this unit can be formulated as a moving-boundary problem for a degenerating system of convection-diffusion reaction equations whose unknowns are the concentrations of the components forming the solid and liquid phases, respectively. This model is transformed to a fixed computational domain and is discretized by an explicit monotone scheme along with an alternative semi-implicit variant. The semi-implicit variant is based on solving, during each time step, a system of nonlinear equations for the total solids concentration followed by the solution of linear systems for the solid component percentages and liquid component concentrations. It is demonstrated that the semi-implicit scheme is well posed and that both variants produce approximations that satisfy an invariant region principle: solids concentrations are nonnegative and less or equal to a set maximal one, percentages are nonnegative and sum up to one, and substrate concentrations are nonnegative. These properties are achieved undera Courant-Friedrichs-Lewy (CFL) condition that is less restrictive for the semi-implicit than the explicit variant. Numerical examples with realistic parameters illustrate that as a consequence, the semi-implicit variant is more efficient than the explicit one. 

**Title:** OliVe: Accelerating Large Language Models via Hardware-friendly  Outlier-Victim Pair Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07493

**Abstract:** Transformer-based large language models (LLMs) have achieved great success with the growing model size. LLMs' size grows by $240\times$ every two years, which outpaces the hardware progress and makes model inference increasingly costly. Model quantization is a promising approach to mitigate the widening gap between LLM size and hardware capacity. However, the existence of outliers, values with significant magnitudes, in LLMs makes existing quantization methods less effective. Prior outlier-aware quantization schemes adopt sparsity encoding techniques to separate outliers from normal values where the process requires global coordination (e.g., a global sparsity coordination list). This incurs complex encoding/decoding hardware logics and an extra orchestration controller for the computation between outlier and normal values. As such, it is not hardware-efficient and hence only achieves sub-optimal quantization benefits. 

**Title:** ID2image: Leakage of non-ID information into face descriptors and  inversion from descriptors to images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07522

**Abstract:** Embedding a face image to a descriptor vector using a deep CNN is a widely used technique in face recognition. Via several possible training strategies, such embeddings are supposed to capture only identity information. Information about the environment (such as background and lighting) or changeable aspects of the face (such as pose, expression, presence of glasses, hat etc.) should be discarded since they are not useful for recognition. In this paper, we present a surprising result that this is not the case. We show that non-ID attributes, as well as landmark positions and the image histogram can be recovered from the ID embedding of state-of-the-art face embedding networks (VGGFace2 and ArcFace). In fact, these non-ID attributes can be predicted from ID embeddings with similar accuracy to a prediction from the original image. Going further, we present an optimisation strategy that uses a generative model (specifically StyleGAN2 for faces) to recover images from an ID embedding. We show photorealistic inversion from ID embedding to face image in which not only is the ID realistically reconstructed but the pose, lighting and background/apparel to some extent as well. 

**Title:** TagCLIP: Improving Discrimination Ability of Open-Vocabulary Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07547

**Abstract:** Recent success of Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training~(CLIP) has shown great promise in pixel-level open-vocabulary learning tasks. A general paradigm utilizes CLIP's text and patch embeddings to generate semantic masks. However, existing models easily misidentify input pixels from unseen classes, thus confusing novel classes with semantically-similar ones. In our work, we disentangle the ill-posed optimization problem into two parallel processes: one performs semantic matching individually, and the other judges reliability for improving discrimination ability. Motivated by special tokens in language modeling that represents sentence-level embeddings, we design a trusty token that decouples the known and novel category prediction tendency. With almost no extra overhead, we upgrade the pixel-level generalization capacity of existing models effectively. Our TagCLIP (CLIP adapting with Trusty-guidance) boosts the IoU of unseen classes by 7.4% and 1.7% on PASCAL VOC 2012 and COCO-Stuff 164K. 

**Title:** MA-ViT: Modality-Agnostic Vision Transformers for Face Anti-Spoofing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07549

**Abstract:** The existing multi-modal face anti-spoofing (FAS) frameworks are designed based on two strategies: halfway and late fusion. However, the former requires test modalities consistent with the training input, which seriously limits its deployment scenarios. And the latter is built on multiple branches to process different modalities independently, which limits their use in applications with low memory or fast execution requirements. In this work, we present a single branch based Transformer framework, namely Modality-Agnostic Vision Transformer (MA-ViT), which aims to improve the performance of arbitrary modal attacks with the help of multi-modal data. Specifically, MA-ViT adopts the early fusion to aggregate all the available training modalities data and enables flexible testing of any given modal samples. Further, we develop the Modality-Agnostic Transformer Block (MATB) in MA-ViT, which consists of two stacked attentions named Modal-Disentangle Attention (MDA) and Cross-Modal Attention (CMA), to eliminate modality-related information for each modal sequences and supplement modality-agnostic liveness features from another modal sequences, respectively. Experiments demonstrate that the single model trained based on MA-ViT can not only flexibly evaluate different modal samples, but also outperforms existing single-modal frameworks by a large margin, and approaches the multi-modal frameworks introduced with smaller FLOPs and model parameters. 

**Title:** Self-collaboration Code Generation via ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07590

**Abstract:** Code generation is widely regarded as a key technique for elevating the automation and ultimate quality of software development. Nevertheless, existing code generation approaches usually concentrate on a single stage of the software development process (i.e., the coding stage) and do not take into consideration other stages that are crucial in reducing complexity and ensuring quality assurance. The organization and conduction of multiple stages in software development require collaborative teamwork. To this end, this paper presents a self-collaboration code generation framework employing large language models (LLMs), exemplified by ChatGPT. Specifically, multiple LLMs play distinct roles through role instructions to form teams, addressing code generation tasks collaboratively and interactively without the need for human intervention. To showcase our framework, we assemble an elementary team consisting of three ChatGPT roles (i.e., analyst, coder, and tester) corresponding to the analysis, coding, and testing stages of software development. We conduct comprehensive experiments on various code-generation benchmarks. The experimental results indicate that self-collaboration code generation improves 29.9%-47.1% relative performance compared to naive direct code generation, achieving state-of-the-art performance and even surpassing GPT-4. 

**Title:** A CTC Alignment-based Non-autoregressive Transformer for End-to-end  Automatic Speech Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07611

**Abstract:** Recently, end-to-end models have been widely used in automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems. Two of the most representative approaches are connectionist temporal classification (CTC) and attention-based encoder-decoder (AED) models. Autoregressive transformers, variants of AED, adopt an autoregressive mechanism for token generation and thus are relatively slow during inference. In this paper, we present a comprehensive study of a CTC Alignment-based Single-Step Non-Autoregressive Transformer (CASS-NAT) for end-to-end ASR. In CASS-NAT, word embeddings in the autoregressive transformer (AT) are substituted with token-level acoustic embeddings (TAE) that are extracted from encoder outputs with the acoustical boundary information offered by the CTC alignment. TAE can be obtained in parallel, resulting in a parallel generation of output tokens. During training, Viterbi-alignment is used for TAE generation, and multiple training strategies are further explored to improve the word error rate (WER) performance. During inference, an error-based alignment sampling method is investigated in depth to reduce the alignment mismatch in the training and testing processes. Experimental results show that the CASS-NAT has a WER that is close to AT on various ASR tasks, while providing a ~24x inference speedup. With and without self-supervised learning, we achieve new state-of-the-art results for non-autoregressive models on several datasets. We also analyze the behavior of the CASS-NAT decoder to explain why it can perform similarly to AT. We find that TAEs have similar functionality to word embeddings for grammatical structures, which might indicate the possibility of learning some semantic information from TAEs without a language model. 

**Title:** ArguGPT: evaluating, understanding and identifying argumentative essays  generated by GPT models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07666

**Abstract:** AI generated content (AIGC) presents considerable challenge to educators around the world. Instructors need to be able to detect such text generated by large language models, either with the naked eye or with the help of some tools. There is also growing need to understand the lexical, syntactic and stylistic features of AIGC. To address these challenges in English language teaching, we first present ArguGPT, a balanced corpus of 4,038 argumentative essays generated by 7 GPT models in response to essay prompts from three sources: (1) in-class or homework exercises, (2) TOEFL and (3) GRE writing tasks. Machine-generated texts are paired with roughly equal number of human-written essays with three score levels matched in essay prompts. We then hire English instructors to distinguish machine essays from human ones. Results show that when first exposed to machine-generated essays, the instructors only have an accuracy of 61% in detecting them. But the number rises to 67% after one round of minimal self-training. Next, we perform linguistic analyses of these essays, which show that machines produce sentences with more complex syntactic structures while human essays tend to be lexically more complex. Finally, we test existing AIGC detectors and build our own detectors using SVMs and RoBERTa. Results suggest that a RoBERTa fine-tuned with the training set of ArguGPT achieves above 90% accuracy in both essay- and sentence-level classification. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive analysis of argumentative essays produced by generative large language models. Machine-authored essays in ArguGPT and our models will be made publicly available at https://github.com/huhailinguist/ArguGPT 

**Title:** Obstacle-Transformer: A Trajectory Prediction Network Based on  Surrounding Trajectories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07711

**Abstract:** Recurrent Neural Network, Long Short-Term Memory, and Transformer have made great progress in predicting the trajectories of moving objects. Although the trajectory element with the surrounding scene features has been merged to improve performance, there still exist some problems to be solved. One is that the time series processing models will increase the inference time with the increase of the number of prediction sequences. Another lies in which the features can not be extracted from the scene's image and point cloud in some situations. Therefore, this paper proposes an Obstacle-Transformer to predict trajectory in a constant inference time. An ``obstacle'' is designed by the surrounding trajectory rather than images or point clouds, making Obstacle-Transformer more applicable in a wider range of scenarios. Experiments are conducted on ETH and UCY data sets to verify the performance of our model. 

**Title:** TransFusionOdom: Interpretable Transformer-based LiDAR-Inertial Fusion  Odometry Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07728

**Abstract:** Multi-modal fusion of sensors is a commonly used approach to enhance the performance of odometry estimation, which is also a fundamental module for mobile robots. However, the question of \textit{how to perform fusion among different modalities in a supervised sensor fusion odometry estimation task?} is still one of challenging issues remains. Some simple operations, such as element-wise summation and concatenation, are not capable of assigning adaptive attentional weights to incorporate different modalities efficiently, which make it difficult to achieve competitive odometry results. Recently, the Transformer architecture has shown potential for multi-modal fusion tasks, particularly in the domains of vision with language. In this work, we propose an end-to-end supervised Transformer-based LiDAR-Inertial fusion framework (namely TransFusionOdom) for odometry estimation. The multi-attention fusion module demonstrates different fusion approaches for homogeneous and heterogeneous modalities to address the overfitting problem that can arise from blindly increasing the complexity of the model. Additionally, to interpret the learning process of the Transformer-based multi-modal interactions, a general visualization approach is introduced to illustrate the interactions between modalities. Moreover, exhaustive ablation studies evaluate different multi-modal fusion strategies to verify the performance of the proposed fusion strategy. A synthetic multi-modal dataset is made public to validate the generalization ability of the proposed fusion strategy, which also works for other combinations of different modalities. The quantitative and qualitative odometry evaluations on the KITTI dataset verify the proposed TransFusionOdom could achieve superior performance compared with other related works. 

**Title:** Shuffled Transformer for Privacy-Preserving Split Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07735

**Abstract:** In conventional split learning, training and testing data often face severe privacy leakage threats. Existing solutions often have to trade learning accuracy for data privacy, or the other way around. We propose a lossless privacy-preserving split learning framework, on the basis of the permutation equivalence properties which are inherent to many neural network modules. We adopt Transformer as the example building block to the framework. It is proved that the Transformer encoder block is permutation equivalent, and thus training/testing could be done equivalently on permuted data. We further introduce shuffling-based privacy guarantee and enhance it by mix-up training. All properties are verified by conducted experiments, which also show strong defence against privacy attacks compared to the state-of-the-art, yet without any accuracy decline. 

**Title:** SeaThru-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields in Scattering Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07743

**Abstract:** Research on neural radiance fields (NeRFs) for novel view generation is exploding with new models and extensions. However, a question that remains unanswered is what happens in underwater or foggy scenes where the medium strongly influences the appearance of objects. Thus far, NeRF and its variants have ignored these cases. However, since the NeRF framework is based on volumetric rendering, it has inherent capability to account for the medium's effects, once modeled appropriately. We develop a new rendering model for NeRFs in scattering media, which is based on the SeaThru image formation model, and suggest a suitable architecture for learning both scene information and medium parameters. We demonstrate the strength of our method using simulated and real-world scenes, correctly rendering novel photorealistic views underwater. Even more excitingly, we can render clear views of these scenes, removing the medium between the camera and the scene and reconstructing the appearance and depth of far objects, which are severely occluded by the medium. Our code and unique datasets are available on the project's website. 

**Title:** MisRoBÆRTa: Transformers versus Misinformation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07759

**Abstract:** Misinformation is considered a threat to our democratic values and principles. The spread of such content on social media polarizes society and undermines public discourse by distorting public perceptions and generating social unrest while lacking the rigor of traditional journalism. Transformers and transfer learning proved to be state-of-the-art methods for multiple well-known natural language processing tasks. In this paper, we propose MisRoB{\AE}RTa, a novel transformer-based deep neural ensemble architecture for misinformation detection. MisRoB{\AE}RTa takes advantage of two transformers (BART \& RoBERTa) to improve the classification performance. We also benchmarked and evaluated the performances of multiple transformers on the task of misinformation detection. For training and testing, we used a large real-world news articles dataset labeled with 10 classes, addressing two shortcomings in the current research: increasing the size of the dataset from small to large, and moving the focus of fake news detection from binary classification to multi-class classification. For this dataset, we manually verified the content of the news articles to ensure that they were correctly labeled. The experimental results show that the accuracy of transformers on the misinformation detection problem was significantly influenced by the method employed to learn the context, dataset size, and vocabulary dimension. We observe empirically that the best accuracy performance among the classification models that use only one transformer is obtained by BART, while DistilRoBERTa obtains the best accuracy in the least amount of time required for fine-tuning and training. The proposed MisRoB{\AE}RTa outperforms the other transformer models in the task of misinformation detection. To arrive at this conclusion, we performed ample ablation and sensitivity testing with MisRoB{\AE}RTa on two datasets. 

**Title:** Regularized Complete Cycle Consistent GAN for Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07769

**Abstract:** This study presents an adversarial method for anomaly detection in real-world applications, leveraging the power of generative adversarial neural networks (GANs) through cycle consistency in reconstruction error. Previous methods suffer from the high variance between class-wise accuracy which leads to not being applicable for all types of anomalies. The proposed method named RCALAD tries to solve this problem by introducing a novel discriminator to the structure, which results in a more efficient training process. Additionally, RCALAD employs a supplementary distribution in the input space to steer reconstructions toward the normal data distribution, effectively separating anomalous samples from their reconstructions and facilitating more accurate anomaly detection. To further enhance the performance of the model, two novel anomaly scores are introduced. The proposed model has been thoroughly evaluated through extensive experiments on six various datasets, yielding results that demonstrate its superiority over existing state-of-the-art models. The code is readily available to the research community at https://github.com/zahraDehghanian97/RCALAD. 

**Title:** PCPNet: An Efficient and Semantic-Enhanced Transformer Network for Point  Cloud Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07773

**Abstract:** The ability to predict future structure features of environments based on past perception information is extremely needed by autonomous vehicles, which helps to make the following decision-making and path planning more reasonable. Recently, point cloud prediction (PCP) is utilized to predict and describe future environmental structures by the point cloud form. In this letter, we propose a novel efficient Transformer-based network to predict the future LiDAR point clouds exploiting the past point cloud sequences. We also design a semantic auxiliary training strategy to make the predicted LiDAR point cloud sequence semantically similar to the ground truth and thus improves the significance of the deployment for more tasks in real-vehicle applications. Our approach is completely self-supervised, which means it does not require any manual labeling and has a solid generalization ability toward different environments. The experimental results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art PCP methods on the prediction results and semantic similarity, and has a good real-time performance. Our open-source code and pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/Blurryface0814/PCPNet. 

**Title:** Syntactic Complexity Identification, Measurement, and Reduction Through  Controlled Syntactic Simplification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07774

**Abstract:** Text simplification is one of the domains in Natural Language Processing (NLP) that offers an opportunity to understand the text in a simplified manner for exploration. However, it is always hard to understand and retrieve knowledge from unstructured text, which is usually in the form of compound and complex sentences. There are state-of-the-art neural network-based methods to simplify the sentences for improved readability while replacing words with plain English substitutes and summarising the sentences and paragraphs. In the Knowledge Graph (KG) creation process from unstructured text, summarising long sentences and substituting words is undesirable since this may lead to information loss. However, KG creation from text requires the extraction of all possible facts (triples) with the same mentions as in the text. In this work, we propose a controlled simplification based on the factual information in a sentence, i.e., triple. We present a classical syntactic dependency-based approach to split and rephrase a compound and complex sentence into a set of simplified sentences. This simplification process will retain the original wording with a simple structure of possible domain facts in each sentence, i.e., triples. The paper also introduces an algorithm to identify and measure a sentence's syntactic complexity (SC), followed by reduction through a controlled syntactic simplification process. Last, an experiment for a dataset re-annotation is also conducted through GPT3; we aim to publish this refined corpus as a resource. This work is accepted and presented in International workshop on Learning with Knowledge Graphs (IWLKG) at WSDM-2023 Conference. The code and data is available at www.github.com/sallmanm/SynSim. 

**Title:** SikuGPT: A Generative Pre-trained Model for Intelligent Information  Processing of Ancient Texts from the Perspective of Digital Humanities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07778

**Abstract:** The rapid advance in artificial intelligence technology has facilitated the prosperity of digital humanities research. Against such backdrop, research methods need to be transformed in the intelligent processing of ancient texts, which is a crucial component of digital humanities research, so as to adapt to new development trends in the wave of AIGC. In this study, we propose a GPT model called SikuGPT based on the corpus of Siku Quanshu. The model's performance in tasks such as intralingual translation and text classification exceeds that of other GPT-type models aimed at processing ancient texts. SikuGPT's ability to process traditional Chinese ancient texts can help promote the organization of ancient information and knowledge services, as well as the international dissemination of Chinese ancient culture. 

**Title:** EGformer: Equirectangular Geometry-biased Transformer for 360 Depth  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07803

**Abstract:** Estimating the depths of equirectangular (360) images (EIs) is challenging given the distorted 180 x 360 field-of-view, which is hard to be addressed via convolutional neural network (CNN). Although a transformer with global attention achieves significant improvements over CNN for EI depth estimation task, it is computationally inefficient, which raises the need for transformer with local attention. However, to apply local attention successfully for EIs, a specific strategy, which addresses distorted equirectangular geometry and limited receptive field simultaneously, is required. Prior works have only cared either of them, resulting in unsatisfactory depths occasionally. In this paper, we propose an equirectangular geometry-biased transformer termed EGformer, which enables local attention extraction in a global manner considering the equirectangular geometry. To achieve this, we actively utilize the equirectangular geometry as the bias for the local attention instead of struggling to reduce the distortion of EIs. As compared to the most recent transformer based EI depth estimation studies, the proposed approach yields the best depth outcomes overall with the lowest computational cost and the fewest parameters, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed methods. 

**Title:** VISAR: A Human-AI Argumentative Writing Assistant with Visual  Programming and Rapid Draft Prototyping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07810

**Abstract:** In argumentative writing, writers must brainstorm hierarchical writing goals, ensure the persuasiveness of their arguments, and revise and organize their plans through drafting. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have made interactive text generation through a chat interface (e.g., ChatGPT) possible. However, this approach often neglects implicit writing context and user intent, lacks support for user control and autonomy, and provides limited assistance for sensemaking and revising writing plans. To address these challenges, we introduce VISAR, an AI-enabled writing assistant system designed to help writers brainstorm and revise hierarchical goals within their writing context, organize argument structures through synchronized text editing and visual programming, and enhance persuasiveness with argumentation spark recommendations. VISAR allows users to explore, experiment with, and validate their writing plans using automatic draft prototyping. A controlled lab study confirmed the usability and effectiveness of VISAR in facilitating the argumentative writing planning process. 

**Title:** How does ChatGPT rate sound semantics?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07830

**Abstract:** Semantic dimensions of sound have been playing a central role in understanding the nature of auditory sensory experience as well as the broader relation between perception, language, and meaning. Accordingly, and given the recent proliferation of large language models (LLMs), here we asked whether such models exhibit an organisation of perceptual semantics similar to those observed in humans. Specifically, we prompted ChatGPT, a chatbot based on a state-of-the-art LLM, to rate musical instrument sounds on a set of 20 semantic scales. We elicited multiple responses in separate chats, analogous to having multiple human raters. ChatGPT generated semantic profiles that only partially correlated with human ratings, yet showed robust agreement along well-known psychophysical dimensions of musical sounds such as brightness (bright-dark) and pitch height (deep-high). Exploratory factor analysis suggested the same dimensionality but different spatial configuration of a latent factor space between the chatbot and human ratings. Unexpectedly, the chatbot showed degrees of internal variability that were comparable in magnitude to that of human ratings. Our work highlights the potential of LLMs to capture salient dimensions of human sensory experience. 

**Title:** Automated Program Repair Based on Code Review: How do Pre-trained  Transformer Models Perform?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07840

**Abstract:** Sequence-to-sequence models have been used to transform erroneous programs into correct ones when trained with a large enough dataset. Some recent studies also demonstrated strong empirical evidence that code review (natural language instruction about suggestive changes in code) can improve the program repair further. Large language models, trained with Natural Language (NL) and computer program corpora, have the capacity to contain inherent knowledge of both. In this study, we investigate if this inherent knowledge of code and NL can be utilized to improve automated program repair. We applied PLBART and CodeT5, two state-of-the-art language models that are pre-trained with both Programming Language (PL) and Natural Language (NL), on two such natural language-based program repair datasets and found that the pre-trained language models fine-tuned with datasets containing both code review and subsequent code changes notably outperform each of the previous models. We observed that the pre-trained models improve the previously best-reported results by 9.91% on the Review4Repair dataset and by 24.72% on the dataset by Tufano et al. This suggests that a pre-trained sequential model has a better understanding of natural language and can utilize it much better. We performed an ablation study to assess the contribution of the pre-training mechanism and the model architecture. We found that pre-training was significantly more important in the performance gain than the model architecture. The practical application of using pre-trained transformer models in the context of automated program repair is still a long way off. However, our study demonstrates the substantial value of employing pre-trained models, paving the path for future studies to use more of these. 

**Title:** AI driven shadow model detection in agropv farms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07853

**Abstract:** Agro-photovoltaic (APV) is a growing farming practice that combines agriculture and solar photovoltaic projects within the same area. This emerging market is expected to experience significant growth in the next few years, with a projected investment of $9 billion in 2030. Identifying shadows is crucial to understanding the APV environment, as they impact plant growth, microclimate, and evapotranspiration. In this study, we use state-of-the-art CNN and GAN-based neural networks to detect shadows in agro-PV farms, demonstrating their effectiveness. However, challenges remain, including partial shadowing from moving objects and real-time monitoring. Future research should focus on developing more sophisticated neural network-based shadow detection algorithms and integrating them with control systems for APV farms. Overall, shadow detection is crucial to increase productivity and profitability while supporting the environment, soil, and farmers. 

**Title:** Towards Better Instruction Following Language Models for Chinese:  Investigating the Impact of Training Data and Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07854

**Abstract:** Recently, significant public efforts have been directed towards developing low-cost models with capabilities akin to ChatGPT, thereby fostering the growth of open-source conversational models. However, there remains a scarcity of comprehensive and in-depth evaluations of these models' performance. In this study, we examine the influence of training data factors, including quantity, quality, and linguistic distribution, on model performance. Our analysis is grounded in several publicly accessible, high-quality instruction datasets, as well as our own Chinese multi-turn conversations. We assess various models using a evaluation set of 1,000 samples, encompassing nine real-world scenarios. Our goal is to supplement manual evaluations with quantitative analyses, offering valuable insights for the continued advancement of open-source chat models. Furthermore, to enhance the performance and training and inference efficiency of models in the Chinese domain, we extend the vocabulary of LLaMA - the model with the closest open-source performance to proprietary language models like GPT-3 - and conduct secondary pre-training on 3.4B Chinese words. We make our model, data, as well as code publicly available. 

**Title:** PBNR: Prompt-based News Recommender System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07862

**Abstract:** Online news platforms often use personalized news recommendation methods to help users discover articles that align with their interests. These methods typically predict a matching score between a user and a candidate article to reflect the user's preference for the article. Some previous works have used language model techniques, such as the attention mechanism, to capture users' interests based on their past behaviors, and to understand the content of articles. However, these existing model architectures require adjustments if additional information is taken into account. Pre-trained large language models, which can better capture word relationships and comprehend contexts, have seen a significant development in recent years, and these pre-trained models have the advantages of transfer learning and reducing the training time for downstream tasks. Meanwhile, prompt learning is a newly developed technique that leverages pre-trained language models by building task-specific guidance for output generations. To leverage textual information in news articles, this paper introduces the pre-trained large language model and prompt-learning to the community of news recommendation. The proposed model "prompt-based news recommendation" (PBNR) treats the personalized news recommendation as a text-to-text language task and designs personalized prompts to adapt to the pre-trained language model -- text-to-text transfer transformer (T5). Experimental studies using the Microsoft News dataset show that PBNR is capable of making accurate recommendations by taking into account various lengths of past behaviors of different users. PBNR can also easily adapt to new information without changing the model architecture and the training objective. Additionally, PBNR can make recommendations based on users' specific requirements, allowing human-computer interaction in the news recommendation field. 

**Title:** A Neural Network Transformer Model for Composite Microstructure  Homogenization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07877

**Abstract:** Heterogeneity and uncertainty in a composite microstructure lead to either computational bottlenecks if modeled rigorously, or to solution inaccuracies in the stress field and failure predictions if approximated. Although methods suitable for analyzing arbitrary and non-linear microstructures exist, their computational cost makes them impractical to use in large-scale structural analysis. Surrogate models or Reduced Order Models (ROM), commonly enhance efficiencies, but they are typically calibrated with a single microstructure. Homogenization methods, such as the Mori-Tanaka method, offer rapid homogenization for a wide range of constituent properties. However, simplifying assumptions, like stress and strain averaging in phases, render the consideration of both deterministic and stochastic variations in microstructure infeasible. 

**Title:** Sabiá: Portuguese Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07880

**Abstract:** As the capabilities of language models continue to advance, it is conceivable that "one-size-fits-all" model will remain as the main paradigm. For instance, given the vast number of languages worldwide, many of which are low-resource, the prevalent practice is to pretrain a single model on multiple languages. In this paper, we add to the growing body of evidence that challenges this practice, demonstrating that monolingual pretraining on the target language significantly improves models already extensively trained on diverse corpora. More specifically, we further pretrain GPT-J and LLaMA models on Portuguese texts using 3% or less of their original pretraining budget. Few-shot evaluations on Poeta, a suite of 14 Portuguese datasets, reveal that our models outperform English-centric and multilingual counterparts by a significant margin. Our best model, Sabi\'a-65B, performs on par with GPT-3.5-turbo. By evaluating on datasets originally conceived in the target language as well as translated ones, we study the contributions of language-specific pretraining in terms of 1) capturing linguistic nuances and structures inherent to the target language, and 2) enriching the model's knowledge about a domain or culture. Our results indicate that the majority of the benefits stem from the domain-specific knowledge acquired through monolingual pretraining. 

**Title:** Bent & Broken Bicycles: Leveraging synthetic data for damaged object  re-identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07883

**Abstract:** Instance-level object re-identification is a fundamental computer vision task, with applications from image retrieval to intelligent monitoring and fraud detection. In this work, we propose the novel task of damaged object re-identification, which aims at distinguishing changes in visual appearance due to deformations or missing parts from subtle intra-class variations. To explore this task, we leverage the power of computer-generated imagery to create, in a semi-automatic fashion, high-quality synthetic images of the same bike before and after a damage occurs. The resulting dataset, Bent & Broken Bicycles (BBBicycles), contains 39,200 images and 2,800 unique bike instances spanning 20 different bike models. As a baseline for this task, we propose TransReI3D, a multi-task, transformer-based deep network unifying damage detection (framed as a multi-label classification task) with object re-identification. The BBBicycles dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/GrainsPolito/BBBicycles 

**Title:** CAT-NeRF: Constancy-Aware Tx$^2$Former for Dynamic Body Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07915

**Abstract:** This paper addresses the problem of human rendering in the video with temporal appearance constancy. Reconstructing dynamic body shapes with volumetric neural rendering methods, such as NeRF, requires finding the correspondence of the points in the canonical and observation space, which demands understanding human body shape and motion. Some methods use rigid transformation, such as SE(3), which cannot precisely model each frame's unique motion and muscle movements. Others generate the transformation for each frame with a trainable network, such as neural blend weight field or translation vector field, which does not consider the appearance constancy of general body shape. In this paper, we propose CAT-NeRF for self-awareness of appearance constancy with Tx$^2$Former, a novel way to combine two Transformer layers, to separate appearance constancy and uniqueness. Appearance constancy models the general shape across the video, and uniqueness models the unique patterns for each frame. We further introduce a novel Covariance Loss to limit the correlation between each pair of appearance uniquenesses to ensure the frame-unique pattern is maximally captured in appearance uniqueness. We assess our method on H36M and ZJU-MoCap and show state-of-the-art performance. 

**Title:** Likelihood-Based Generative Radiance Field with Latent Space  Energy-Based Model for 3D-Aware Disentangled Image Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07918

**Abstract:** We propose the NeRF-LEBM, a likelihood-based top-down 3D-aware 2D image generative model that incorporates 3D representation via Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) and 2D imaging process via differentiable volume rendering. The model represents an image as a rendering process from 3D object to 2D image and is conditioned on some latent variables that account for object characteristics and are assumed to follow informative trainable energy-based prior models. We propose two likelihood-based learning frameworks to train the NeRF-LEBM: (i) maximum likelihood estimation with Markov chain Monte Carlo-based inference and (ii) variational inference with the reparameterization trick. We study our models in the scenarios with both known and unknown camera poses. Experiments on several benchmark datasets demonstrate that the NeRF-LEBM can infer 3D object structures from 2D images, generate 2D images with novel views and objects, learn from incomplete 2D images, and learn from 2D images with known or unknown camera poses. 

**Title:** Causal Decision Transformer for Recommender Systems via Offline  Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07920

**Abstract:** Reinforcement learning-based recommender systems have recently gained popularity. However, the design of the reward function, on which the agent relies to optimize its recommendation policy, is often not straightforward. Exploring the causality underlying users' behavior can take the place of the reward function in guiding the agent to capture the dynamic interests of users. Moreover, due to the typical limitations of simulation environments (e.g., data inefficiency), most of the work cannot be broadly applied in large-scale situations. Although some works attempt to convert the offline dataset into a simulator, data inefficiency makes the learning process even slower. Because of the nature of reinforcement learning (i.e., learning by interaction), it cannot collect enough data to train during a single interaction. Furthermore, traditional reinforcement learning algorithms do not have a solid capability like supervised learning methods to learn from offline datasets directly. In this paper, we propose a new model named the causal decision transformer for recommender systems (CDT4Rec). CDT4Rec is an offline reinforcement learning system that can learn from a dataset rather than from online interaction. Moreover, CDT4Rec employs the transformer architecture, which is capable of processing large offline datasets and capturing both short-term and long-term dependencies within the data to estimate the causal relationship between action, state, and reward. To demonstrate the feasibility and superiority of our model, we have conducted experiments on six real-world offline datasets and one online simulator. 

**Title:** Causal Disentangled Variational Auto-Encoder for Preference  Understanding in Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07922

**Abstract:** Recommendation models are typically trained on observational user interaction data, but the interactions between latent factors in users' decision-making processes lead to complex and entangled data. Disentangling these latent factors to uncover their underlying representation can improve the robustness, interpretability, and controllability of recommendation models. This paper introduces the Causal Disentangled Variational Auto-Encoder (CaD-VAE), a novel approach for learning causal disentangled representations from interaction data in recommender systems. The CaD-VAE method considers the causal relationships between semantically related factors in real-world recommendation scenarios, rather than enforcing independence as in existing disentanglement methods. The approach utilizes structural causal models to generate causal representations that describe the causal relationship between latent factors. The results demonstrate that CaD-VAE outperforms existing methods, offering a promising solution for disentangling complex user behavior data in recommendation systems. 

**Title:** Heterogeneous Domain Adaptation with Positive and Unlabeled Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07955

**Abstract:** Heterogeneous unsupervised domain adaptation (HUDA) is the most challenging domain adaptation setting where the feature space differs between source and target domains, and the target domain has only unlabeled data. Existing HUDA methods assume that both positive and negative examples are available in the source domain, which may not be satisfied in some real applications. This paper addresses a new challenging setting called positive and unlabeled heterogeneous domain adaptation (PU-HDA), a HUDA setting where the source domain only has positives. PU-HDA can also be viewed as an extension of PU learning where the positive and unlabeled examples are sampled from different domains. A naive combination of existing HUDA and PU learning methods is ineffective in PU-HDA due to the gap in label distribution between the source and target domains. To overcome this issue, we propose a novel method, positive-adversarial domain adaptation (PADA), which can predict likely positive examples from the unlabeled target data and simultaneously align the feature spaces to reduce the distribution divergence between the whole source data and the likely positive target data. PADA achieves this by a unified adversarial training framework for learning a classifier to predict positive examples and a feature transformer to transform the target feature space to that of the source. Specifically, they are both trained to fool a common discriminator that determines whether the likely positive examples are from the target or source domain. We experimentally show that PADA outperforms several baseline methods, such as the naive combination of HUDA and PU learning. 

**Title:** A Question-Answering Approach to Key Value Pair Extraction from  Form-like Document Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07957

**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a new question-answering (QA) based key-value pair extraction approach, called KVPFormer, to robustly extracting key-value relationships between entities from form-like document images. Specifically, KVPFormer first identifies key entities from all entities in an image with a Transformer encoder, then takes these key entities as \textbf{questions} and feeds them into a Transformer decoder to predict their corresponding \textbf{answers} (i.e., value entities) in parallel. To achieve higher answer prediction accuracy, we propose a coarse-to-fine answer prediction approach further, which first extracts multiple answer candidates for each identified question in the coarse stage and then selects the most likely one among these candidates in the fine stage. In this way, the learning difficulty of answer prediction can be effectively reduced so that the prediction accuracy can be improved. Moreover, we introduce a spatial compatibility attention bias into the self-attention/cross-attention mechanism for \Ours{} to better model the spatial interactions between entities. With these new techniques, our proposed \Ours{} achieves state-of-the-art results on FUNSD and XFUND datasets, outperforming the previous best-performing method by 7.2\% and 13.2\% in F1 score, respectively. 

**Title:** Frequency Regularization: Restricting Information Redundancy of  Convolutional Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07973

**Abstract:** Convolutional neural networks have demonstrated impressive results in many computer vision tasks. However, the increasing size of these networks raises concerns about the information redundancy within the network parameters. In this paper, we proposed the Frequency Regularization to restrict the non-zero elements of the network parameters in frequency domain. The proposed approach operates at the tensor level, and can be applied to almost any kind of network architectures. Specifically, the tensors of parameters are maintained in the frequency domain, where high frequency components can be eliminated by zigzag setting tensor elements to zero. Then, the inverse discrete cosine transform (IDCT) is used to reconstruct the spatial tensors for matrix operations during network training. Since high frequency components of images are known to be non-critical, a large proportion of the parameters can be set to zero when networks are trained with proposed frequency regularization. Comprehensive evaluations on various state-of-the-art network architectures, including LeNet, Alexnet, VGG, Resnet, UNet, GAN, and VAE, demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed frequency regularization. Under the condition with tiny accuracy decrease (less than 2\%), a LeNet5 with 0.4M parameters can be represented by 776 float16 numbers(over 1100$\times$), a UNet with 34M parameters can be represented by 2936 float16 numbers (over 20000$\times$). 

**Title:** NeRF-Loc: Visual Localization with Conditional Neural Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07979

**Abstract:** We propose a novel visual re-localization method based on direct matching between the implicit 3D descriptors and the 2D image with transformer. A conditional neural radiance field(NeRF) is chosen as the 3D scene representation in our pipeline, which supports continuous 3D descriptors generation and neural rendering. By unifying the feature matching and the scene coordinate regression to the same framework, our model learns both generalizable knowledge and scene prior respectively during two training stages. Furthermore, to improve the localization robustness when domain gap exists between training and testing phases, we propose an appearance adaptation layer to explicitly align styles between the 3D model and the query image. Experiments show that our method achieves higher localization accuracy than other learning-based approaches on multiple benchmarks. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/JenningsL/nerf-loc}. 

**Title:** Chinese Open Instruction Generalist: A Preliminary Release  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07987

**Abstract:** Instruction tuning is widely recognized as a key technique for building generalist language models, which comes to the attention of researchers and the public with the release of InstructGPT \cite{ouyang2022training} and ChatGPT [ https://chat.openai.com/ ]. Despite impressive progress in English-oriented large-scale language models (\textbf{LLMs}), it is still under-explored whether English-based foundation LLMs can perform similarly on multilingual tasks compared to English tasks with well-designed instruction tuning and how we can construct the corpora needed for the tuning. To remedy this gap, we propose the project as an attempt to create a Chinese instruction dataset by various methods adapted to the intrinsic characteristics of 4 sub-tasks. We collect around 200k Chinese instruction tuning samples, which have been manually checked to guarantee high quality. We also summarize the existing English and Chinese instruction corpora and brief some potential applications of the newly constructed Chinese instruction corpora. 

**Title:** From Zero to Hero: Examining the Power of Symbolic Tasks in Instruction  Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07995

**Abstract:** Fine-tuning language models on tasks with instructions has demonstrated potential in facilitating zero-shot generalization to unseen tasks. In this paper, we introduce a straightforward yet effective method for enhancing instruction tuning by employing symbolic tasks. Compared to crowdsourced human tasks or model-generated tasks, symbolic tasks present a unique advantage as they can be easily generated in vast quantities, theoretically providing an infinite supply of high-quality training instances. To explore the potential of symbolic tasks, we carry out an extensive case study on the representative symbolic task of SQL execution. Empirical results on various benchmarks validate that the integration of SQL execution leads to significant improvements in zero-shot scenarios, particularly in table reasoning. Notably, our 3B model surpasses both the 175B GPT-3 and ChatGPT in zero-shot table reasoning across four benchmarks. Furthermore, experimental results on BBH (27 tasks) and MMLU (57 tasks) reveal that language models can be enhanced through symbolic tasks without compromising their generality. We hope that our paper serves as a catalyst, inspiring increased efforts to incorporate symbolic tasks in instruction tuning. 

**Title:** CLIP-Lung: Textual Knowledge-Guided Lung Nodule Malignancy Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08013

**Abstract:** Lung nodule malignancy prediction has been enhanced by advanced deep-learning techniques and effective tricks. Nevertheless, current methods are mainly trained with cross-entropy loss using one-hot categorical labels, which results in difficulty in distinguishing those nodules with closer progression labels. Interestingly, we observe that clinical text information annotated by radiologists provides us with discriminative knowledge to identify challenging samples. Drawing on the capability of the contrastive language-image pre-training (CLIP) model to learn generalized visual representations from text annotations, in this paper, we propose CLIP-Lung, a textual knowledge-guided framework for lung nodule malignancy prediction. First, CLIP-Lung introduces both class and attribute annotations into the training of the lung nodule classifier without any additional overheads in inference. Second, we designed a channel-wise conditional prompt (CCP) module to establish consistent relationships between learnable context prompts and specific feature maps. Third, we align image features with both class and attribute features via contrastive learning, rectifying false positives and false negatives in latent space. The experimental results on the benchmark LIDC-IDRI dataset have demonstrated the superiority of CLIP-Lung, both in classification performance and interpretability of attention maps. 

**Title:** DETRs Beat YOLOs on Real-time Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08069

**Abstract:** Recently, end-to-end transformer-based detectors (DETRs) have achieved remarkable performance. However, the issue of the high computational cost of DETRs has not been effectively addressed, limiting their practical application and preventing them from fully exploiting the benefits of no post-processing, such as non-maximum suppression (NMS). In this paper, we first analyze the influence of NMS in modern real-time object detectors on inference speed, and establish an end-to-end speed benchmark. To avoid the inference delay caused by NMS, we propose a Real-Time DEtection TRansformer (RT-DETR), the first real-time end-to-end object detector to our best knowledge. Specifically, we design an efficient hybrid encoder to efficiently process multi-scale features by decoupling the intra-scale interaction and cross-scale fusion, and propose IoU-aware query selection to improve the initialization of object queries. In addition, our proposed detector supports flexibly adjustment of the inference speed by using different decoder layers without the need for retraining, which facilitates the practical application of real-time object detectors. Our RT-DETR-L achieves 53.0% AP on COCO val2017 and 114 FPS on T4 GPU, while RT-DETR-X achieves 54.8% AP and 74 FPS, outperforming all YOLO detectors of the same scale in both speed and accuracy. Furthermore, our RT-DETR-R50 achieves 53.1% AP and 108 FPS, outperforming DINO-Deformable-DETR-R50 by 2.2% AP in accuracy and by about 21 times in FPS. Source code and pretrained models will be available at PaddleDetection. 

**Title:** Causality-aware Visual Scene Discovery for Cross-Modal Question  Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08083

**Abstract:** Existing visual question reasoning methods usually fail to explicitly discover the inherent causal mechanism and ignore the complex event-level understanding that requires jointly modeling cross-modal event temporality and causality. In this paper, we propose an event-level visual question reasoning framework named Cross-Modal Question Reasoning (CMQR), to explicitly discover temporal causal structure and mitigate visual spurious correlation by causal intervention. To explicitly discover visual causal structure, the Visual Causality Discovery (VCD) architecture is proposed to find question-critical scene temporally and disentangle the visual spurious correlations by attention-based front-door causal intervention module named Local-Global Causal Attention Module (LGCAM). To align the fine-grained interactions between linguistic semantics and spatial-temporal representations, we build an Interactive Visual-Linguistic Transformer (IVLT) that builds the multi-modal co-occurrence interactions between visual and linguistic content. Extensive experiments on four datasets demonstrate the superiority of CMQR for discovering visual causal structures and achieving robust question reasoning. 

**Title:** Transformer-based Graph Neural Networks for Outfit Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08098

**Abstract:** Suggesting complementary clothing items to compose an outfit is a process of emerging interest, yet it involves a fine understanding of fashion trends and visual aesthetics. Previous works have mainly focused on recommendation by scoring visual appeal and representing garments as ordered sequences or as collections of pairwise-compatible items. This limits the full usage of relations among clothes. We attempt to bridge the gap between outfit recommendation and generation by leveraging a graph-based representation of items in a collection. The work carried out in this paper, tries to build a bridge between outfit recommendation and generation, by discovering new appealing outfits starting from a collection of pre-existing ones. We propose a transformer-based architecture, named TGNN, which exploits multi-headed self attention to capture relations between clothing items in a graph as a message passing step in Convolutional Graph Neural Networks. Specifically, starting from a seed, i.e.~one or more garments, outfit generation is performed by iteratively choosing the garment that is most compatible with the previously chosen ones. Extensive experimentations are conducted with two different datasets, demonstrating the capability of the model to perform seeded outfit generation as well as obtaining state of the art results on compatibility estimation tasks. 

**Title:** LLA-FLOW: A Lightweight Local Aggregation on Cost Volume for Optical  Flow Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08101

**Abstract:** Lack of texture often causes ambiguity in matching, and handling this issue is an important challenge in optical flow estimation tasks. Some methods insert stacked transformer modules that allow the network to use global information of cost volume for estimation. But the global information aggregation often incurs serious memory and time costs during training and inference, which hinders model deployment. We draw inspiration from the traditional local region constraint and design the local similarity aggregation (LSA) and the shifted local similarity aggregation (SLSA). The aggregation for cost volume is implemented with lightweight modules that act on the feature maps. Experiments on the final pass of Sintel show the lower cost required for our approach while maintaining competitive performance. 

**Title:** ViPLO: Vision Transformer based Pose-Conditioned Self-Loop Graph for  Human-Object Interaction Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08114

**Abstract:** Human-Object Interaction (HOI) detection, which localizes and infers relationships between human and objects, plays an important role in scene understanding. Although two-stage HOI detectors have advantages of high efficiency in training and inference, they suffer from lower performance than one-stage methods due to the old backbone networks and the lack of considerations for the HOI perception process of humans in the interaction classifiers. In this paper, we propose Vision Transformer based Pose-Conditioned Self-Loop Graph (ViPLO) to resolve these problems. First, we propose a novel feature extraction method suitable for the Vision Transformer backbone, called masking with overlapped area (MOA) module. The MOA module utilizes the overlapped area between each patch and the given region in the attention function, which addresses the quantization problem when using the Vision Transformer backbone. In addition, we design a graph with a pose-conditioned self-loop structure, which updates the human node encoding with local features of human joints. This allows the classifier to focus on specific human joints to effectively identify the type of interaction, which is motivated by the human perception process for HOI. As a result, ViPLO achieves the state-of-the-art results on two public benchmarks, especially obtaining a +2.07 mAP performance gain on the HICO-DET dataset. The source codes are available at https://github.com/Jeeseung-Park/ViPLO. 

**Title:** An Empirical Study of Multitask Learning to Improve Open Domain Dialogue  Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08115

**Abstract:** Autoregressive models used to generate responses in open-domain dialogue systems often struggle to take long-term context into account and to maintain consistency over a dialogue. Previous research in open-domain dialogue generation has shown that the use of \emph{auxiliary tasks} can introduce inductive biases that encourage the model to improve these qualities. However, most previous research has focused on encoder-only or encoder/decoder models, while the use of auxiliary tasks in \emph{decoder-only} autoregressive models is under-explored. This paper describes an investigation where four different auxiliary tasks are added to small and medium-sized GPT-2 models fine-tuned on the PersonaChat and DailyDialog datasets. The results show that the introduction of the new auxiliary tasks leads to small but consistent improvement in evaluations of the investigated models. 

**Title:** Political corpus creation through automatic speech recognition on EU  debates  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08137

**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a transcribed corpus of the LIBE committee of the EU parliament, totalling 3.6 Million running words. The meetings of parliamentary committees of the EU are a potentially valuable source of information for political scientists but the data is not readily available because only disclosed as speech recordings together with limited metadata. The meetings are in English, partly spoken by non-native speakers, and partly spoken by interpreters. We investigated the most appropriate Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) model to create an accurate text transcription of the audio recordings of the meetings in order to make their content available for research and analysis. We focused on the unsupervised domain adaptation of the ASR pipeline. Building on the transformer-based Wav2vec2.0 model, we experimented with multiple acoustic models, language models and the addition of domain-specific terms. We found that a domain-specific acoustic model and a domain-specific language model give substantial improvements to the ASR output, reducing the word error rate (WER) from 28.22 to 17.95. The use of domain-specific terms in the decoding stage did not have a positive effect on the quality of the ASR in terms of WER. Initial topic modelling results indicated that the corpus is useful for downstream analysis tasks. We release the resulting corpus and our analysis pipeline for future research. 

**Title:** Attention Mixtures for Time-Aware Sequential Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08158

**Abstract:** Transformers emerged as powerful methods for sequential recommendation. However, existing architectures often overlook the complex dependencies between user preferences and the temporal context. In this short paper, we introduce MOJITO, an improved Transformer sequential recommender system that addresses this limitation. MOJITO leverages Gaussian mixtures of attention-based temporal context and item embedding representations for sequential modeling. Such an approach permits to accurately predict which items should be recommended next to users depending on past actions and the temporal context. We demonstrate the relevance of our approach, by empirically outperforming existing Transformers for sequential recommendation on several real-world datasets. 

**Title:** Classification of news spreading barriers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08167

**Abstract:** News media is one of the most effective mechanisms for spreading information internationally, and many events from different areas are internationally relevant. However, news coverage for some news events is limited to a specific geographical region because of information spreading barriers, which can be political, geographical, economic, cultural, or linguistic. In this paper, we propose an approach to barrier classification where we infer the semantics of news articles through Wikipedia concepts. To that end, we collected news articles and annotated them for different kinds of barriers using the metadata of news publishers. Then, we utilize the Wikipedia concepts along with the body text of news articles as features to infer the news-spreading barriers. We compare our approach to the classical text classification methods, deep learning, and transformer-based methods. The results show that the proposed approach using Wikipedia concepts based semantic knowledge offers better performance than the usual for classifying the news-spreading barriers. 

**Title:** Towards Mitigating ChatGPT's Negative Impact on Education: Optimizing  Question Design through Bloom's Taxonomy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08176

**Abstract:** The popularity of generative text AI tools in answering questions has led to concerns regarding their potential negative impact on students' academic performance and the challenges that educators face in evaluating student learning. To address these concerns, this paper introduces an evolutionary approach that aims to identify the best set of Bloom's taxonomy keywords to generate questions that these tools have low confidence in answering. The effectiveness of this approach is evaluated through a case study that uses questions from a Data Structures and Representation course being taught at the University of New South Wales in Canberra, Australia. The results demonstrate that the optimization algorithm is able to find keywords from different cognitive levels to create questions that ChatGPT has low confidence in answering. This study is a step forward to offer valuable insights for educators seeking to create more effective questions that promote critical thinking among students. 

**Title:** Efficient and Effective Text Encoding for Chinese LLaMA and Alpaca  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08177

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, have revolutionized natural language processing research and demonstrated potential in Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). However, the expensive training and deployment of LLMs present challenges to transparent and open academic research. To address these issues, this project open-sources the Chinese LLaMA and Alpaca large models, emphasizing instruction fine-tuning. We expand the original LLaMA's Chinese vocabulary by adding 20K Chinese tokens, increasing encoding efficiency and enhancing basic semantic understanding. By incorporating secondary pre-training using Chinese data and fine-tuning with Chinese instruction data, we substantially improve the models' comprehension and execution of instructions. Our pilot study serves as a foundation for researchers adapting LLaMA and Alpaca models to other languages. Resources are made publicly available through GitHub, fostering open research in the Chinese NLP community and beyond. GitHub repository: https://github.com/ymcui/Chinese-LLaMA-Alpaca 

**Title:** A study on Prompt Design, Advantages and Limitations of ChatGPT for Deep  Learning Program Repair  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08191

**Abstract:** ChatGPT has revolutionized many research and industrial fields. ChatGPT has shown great potential in software engineering to boost various traditional tasks such as program repair, code understanding, and code generation. However, whether automatic program repair (APR) applies to deep learning (DL) programs is still unknown. DL programs, whose decision logic is not explicitly encoded in the source code, have posed unique challenges to APR. While to repair DL programs, an APR approach needs to not only parse the source code syntactically but also needs to understand the code intention. With the best prior work, the performance of fault localization is still far less than satisfactory (only about 30\%). Therefore, in this paper, we explore ChatGPT's capability for DL program repair by asking three research questions. (1) Can ChatGPT debug DL programs effectively? (2) How can ChatGPT's repair performance be improved by prompting? (3) In which way can dialogue help facilitate the repair? On top of that, we categorize the common aspects useful for prompt design for DL program repair. Also, we propose various prompt templates to facilitate the performance and summarize the advantages and disadvantages of ChatGPT's abilities such as detecting bad code smell, code refactoring, and detecting API misuse/deprecation. 

**Title:** Learning Geometry-aware Representations by Sketching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08204

**Abstract:** Understanding geometric concepts, such as distance and shape, is essential for understanding the real world and also for many vision tasks. To incorporate such information into a visual representation of a scene, we propose learning to represent the scene by sketching, inspired by human behavior. Our method, coined Learning by Sketching (LBS), learns to convert an image into a set of colored strokes that explicitly incorporate the geometric information of the scene in a single inference step without requiring a sketch dataset. A sketch is then generated from the strokes where CLIP-based perceptual loss maintains a semantic similarity between the sketch and the image. We show theoretically that sketching is equivariant with respect to arbitrary affine transformations and thus provably preserves geometric information. Experimental results show that LBS substantially improves the performance of object attribute classification on the unlabeled CLEVR dataset, domain transfer between CLEVR and STL-10 datasets, and for diverse downstream tasks, confirming that LBS provides rich geometric information. 

**Title:** VECO 2.0: Cross-lingual Language Model Pre-training with  Multi-granularity Contrastive Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08205

**Abstract:** Recent studies have demonstrated the potential of cross-lingual transferability by training a unified Transformer encoder for multiple languages. In addition to involving the masked language model objective, existing cross-lingual pre-training works leverage sentence-level contrastive learning or plugs in extra cross-attention module to complement the insufficient capabilities of cross-lingual alignment. Nonetheless, synonym pairs residing in bilingual corpus are not exploited and aligned, which is more crucial than sentence interdependence establishment for token-level tasks. In this work, we propose a cross-lingual pre-trained model VECO~2.0 based on contrastive learning with multi-granularity alignments. Specifically, the sequence-to-sequence alignment is induced to maximize the similarity of the parallel pairs and minimize the non-parallel pairs. Then, token-to-token alignment is integrated to bridge the gap between synonymous tokens excavated via the thesaurus dictionary from the other unpaired tokens in a bilingual instance. Experiments show the effectiveness of the proposed strategy for cross-lingual model pre-training on the XTREME benchmark. 

**Title:** Context-Dependent Embedding Utterance Representations for Emotion  Recognition in Conversations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08216

**Abstract:** Emotion Recognition in Conversations (ERC) has been gaining increasing importance as conversational agents become more and more common. Recognizing emotions is key for effective communication, being a crucial component in the development of effective and empathetic conversational agents. Knowledge and understanding of the conversational context are extremely valuable for identifying the emotions of the interlocutor. We thus approach Emotion Recognition in Conversations leveraging the conversational context, i.e., taking into attention previous conversational turns. The usual approach to model the conversational context has been to produce context-independent representations of each utterance and subsequently perform contextual modeling of these. Here we propose context-dependent embedding representations of each utterance by leveraging the contextual representational power of pre-trained transformer language models. In our approach, we feed the conversational context appended to the utterance to be classified as input to the RoBERTa encoder, to which we append a simple classification module, thus discarding the need to deal with context after obtaining the embeddings since these constitute already an efficient representation of such context. We also investigate how the number of introduced conversational turns influences our model performance. The effectiveness of our approach is validated on the widely used open-domain DailyDialog dataset and on the task-oriented EmoWOZ dataset, for which we attain state-of-the-art results, surpassing ERC models also resorting to RoBERTa but with more complex classification modules, indicating that our context-dependent embedding utterance representation approach with a simple classification model can be more effective than context-independent utterance representation approaches with more complex classification modules. 

**Title:** API-Bank: A Benchmark for Tool-Augmented LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08244

**Abstract:** Recent research has shown that Large Language Models (LLMs) can utilize external tools to improve their contextual processing abilities, moving away from the pure language modeling paradigm and paving the way for Artificial General Intelligence. Despite this, there has been a lack of systematic evaluation to demonstrate the efficacy of LLMs using tools to respond to human instructions. This paper presents API-Bank, the first benchmark tailored for Tool-Augmented LLMs. API-Bank includes 53 commonly used API tools, a complete Tool-Augmented LLM workflow, and 264 annotated dialogues that encompass a total of 568 API calls. These resources have been designed to thoroughly evaluate LLMs' ability to plan step-by-step API calls, retrieve relevant APIs, and correctly execute API calls to meet human needs. The experimental results show that GPT-3.5 emerges the ability to use the tools relative to GPT3, while GPT-4 has stronger planning performance. Nevertheless, there remains considerable scope for further improvement when compared to human performance. Additionally, detailed error analysis and case studies demonstrate the feasibility of Tool-Augmented LLMs for daily use, as well as the primary challenges that future research needs to address. 

**Title:** MedAlpaca -- An Open-Source Collection of Medical Conversational AI  Models and Training Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08247

**Abstract:** As large language models (LLMs) like OpenAI's GPT series continue to make strides, we witness the emergence of artificial intelligence applications in an ever-expanding range of fields. In medicine, these LLMs hold considerable promise for improving medical workflows, diagnostics, patient care, and education. Yet, there is an urgent need for open-source models that can be deployed on-premises to safeguard patient privacy. In our work, we present an innovative dataset consisting of over 160,000 entries, specifically crafted to fine-tune LLMs for effective medical applications. We investigate the impact of fine-tuning these datasets on publicly accessible pre-trained LLMs, and subsequently, we juxtapose the performance of pre-trained-only models against the fine-tuned models concerning the examinations that future medical doctors must pass to achieve certification. 

**Title:** MoDA: Modeling Deformable 3D Objects from Casual Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08279

**Abstract:** In this paper, we focus on the challenges of modeling deformable 3D objects from casual videos. With the popularity of neural radiance fields (NeRF), many works extend it to dynamic scenes with a canonical NeRF and a deformation model that achieves 3D point transformation between the observation space and the canonical space. Recent works rely on linear blend skinning (LBS) to achieve the canonical-observation transformation. However, the linearly weighted combination of rigid transformation matrices is not guaranteed to be rigid. As a matter of fact, unexpected scale and shear factors often appear. In practice, using LBS as the deformation model can always lead to skin-collapsing artifacts for bending or twisting motions. To solve this problem, we propose neural dual quaternion blend skinning (NeuDBS) to achieve 3D point deformation, which can perform rigid transformation without skin-collapsing artifacts. Besides, we introduce a texture filtering approach for texture rendering that effectively minimizes the impact of noisy colors outside target deformable objects. Extensive experiments on real and synthetic datasets show that our approach can reconstruct 3D models for humans and animals with better qualitative and quantitative performance than state-of-the-art methods. 

**Title:** Refusion: Enabling Large-Size Realistic Image Restoration with  Latent-Space Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08291

**Abstract:** This work aims to improve the applicability of diffusion models in realistic image restoration. Specifically, we enhance the diffusion model in several aspects such as network architecture, noise level, denoising steps, training image size, and optimizer/scheduler. We show that tuning these hyperparameters allows us to achieve better performance on both distortion and perceptual scores. We also propose a U-Net based latent diffusion model which performs diffusion in a low-resolution latent space while preserving high-resolution information from the original input for the decoding process. Compared to the previous latent-diffusion model which trains a VAE-GAN to compress the image, our proposed U-Net compression strategy is significantly more stable and can recover highly accurate images without relying on adversarial optimization. Importantly, these modifications allow us to apply diffusion models to various image restoration tasks, including real-world shadow removal, HR non-homogeneous dehazing, stereo super-resolution, and bokeh effect transformation. By simply replacing the datasets and slightly changing the noise network, our model, named Refusion, is able to deal with large-size images (e.g., 6000 x 4000 x 3 in HR dehazing) and produces good results on all the above restoration problems. Our Refusion achieves the best perceptual performance in the NTIRE 2023 Image Shadow Removal Challenge and wins 2nd place overall. 

**Title:** Introduction of an intriguing approach for eletric current transformer  on-site examining repairing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08325

**Abstract:** The working principle of a electric current transformer is based on electromagnetic induction, mainly composed of a closed iron core and windings. Its primary winding has relatively few turns and is connected in series with the current circuit to be measured. However, due to the frequent occurrence of full current passing through the current transformer during use, its secondary winding has relatively more turns. During use, errors may occur in the current transformer. Therefore, technical personnel can adopt the heterodyne measurement method to shield interference signals and ensure the accuracy of measurements during on-site examining and repairing of current transformers. This article mainly introduces the characteristics of transformers and their on-site examining and repairing process and errors, and describes the specific application of heterodyne measurement in on-site examining and repairing of current transformers. 

**Title:** New Product Development (NPD) through Social Media-based Analysis by  Comparing Word2Vec and BERT Word Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08369

**Abstract:** This study introduces novel methods for sentiment and opinion classification of tweets to support the New Product Development (NPD) process. Two popular word embedding techniques, Word2Vec and BERT, were evaluated as inputs for classic Machine Learning and Deep Learning algorithms to identify the best-performing approach in sentiment analysis and opinion detection with limited data. The results revealed that BERT word embeddings combined with Balanced Random Forest yielded the most accurate single model for both sentiment analysis and opinion detection on a use case. Additionally, the paper provides feedback for future product development performing word graph analysis of the tweets with same sentiment to highlight potential areas of improvement. 

**Title:** Progressive Visual Prompt Learning with Contrastive Feature Re-formation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08386

**Abstract:** Prompt learning has been designed as an alternative to fine-tuning for adapting Vision-language (V-L) models to the downstream tasks. Previous works mainly focus on text prompt while visual prompt works are limited for V-L models. The existing visual prompt methods endure either mediocre performance or unstable training process, indicating the difficulty of visual prompt learning. In this paper, we propose a new Progressive Visual Prompt (ProVP) structure to strengthen the interactions among prompts of different layers. More importantly, our ProVP could effectively propagate the image embeddings to deep layers and behave partially similar to an instance adaptive prompt method. To alleviate generalization deterioration, we further propose a new contrastive feature re-formation, which prevents the serious deviation of the prompted visual feature from the fixed CLIP visual feature distribution. Combining both, our method (ProVP-Ref) is evaluated on 11 image benchmark datasets and achieves 7/11 state-of-theart results on both few-shot and base-to-novel settings. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to demonstrate the superior performance of visual prompts in V-L models to previous prompt-based methods in downstream tasks. Meanwhile, it implies that our ProVP-Ref shows the best capability to adapt and to generalize. 

**Title:** Multimodal Short Video Rumor Detection System Based on Contrastive  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08401

**Abstract:** With short video platforms becoming one of the important channels for news sharing, major short video platforms in China have gradually become new breeding grounds for fake news. However, it is not easy to distinguish short video rumors due to the great amount of information and features contained in short videos, as well as the serious homogenization and similarity of features among videos. In order to mitigate the spread of short video rumors, our group decides to detect short video rumors by constructing multimodal feature fusion and introducing external knowledge after considering the advantages and disadvantages of each algorithm. The ideas of detection are as follows: (1) dataset creation: to build a short video dataset with multiple features; (2) multimodal rumor detection model: firstly, we use TSN (Temporal Segment Networks) video coding model to extract video features; then, we use OCR (Optical Character Recognition) and ASR (Automatic Character Recognition) to extract video features. Recognition) and ASR (Automatic Speech Recognition) fusion to extract text, and then use the BERT model to fuse text features with video features (3) Finally, use contrast learning to achieve distinction: first crawl external knowledge, then use the vector database to achieve the introduction of external knowledge and the final structure of the classification output. Our research process is always oriented to practical needs, and the related knowledge results will play an important role in many practical scenarios such as short video rumor identification and social opinion control. 

**Title:** OVTrack: Open-Vocabulary Multiple Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08408

**Abstract:** The ability to recognize, localize and track dynamic objects in a scene is fundamental to many real-world applications, such as self-driving and robotic systems. Yet, traditional multiple object tracking (MOT) benchmarks rely only on a few object categories that hardly represent the multitude of possible objects that are encountered in the real world. This leaves contemporary MOT methods limited to a small set of pre-defined object categories. In this paper, we address this limitation by tackling a novel task, open-vocabulary MOT, that aims to evaluate tracking beyond pre-defined training categories. We further develop OVTrack, an open-vocabulary tracker that is capable of tracking arbitrary object classes. Its design is based on two key ingredients: First, leveraging vision-language models for both classification and association via knowledge distillation; second, a data hallucination strategy for robust appearance feature learning from denoising diffusion probabilistic models. The result is an extremely data-efficient open-vocabulary tracker that sets a new state-of-the-art on the large-scale, large-vocabulary TAO benchmark, while being trained solely on static images. Project page: https://www.vis.xyz/pub/ovtrack/ 

**Title:** The MiniPile Challenge for Data-Efficient Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08442

**Abstract:** The ever-growing diversity of pre-training text corpora has equipped language models with generalization capabilities across various downstream tasks. However, such diverse datasets are often too large for academic budgets; hence, most research on Transformer architectures, training procedures, optimizers, etc. gets conducted on smaller, homogeneous datasets. To this end, we present The MiniPile Challenge, where one pre-trains a language model on a diverse text corpus containing at most 1M documents. MiniPile is a 6GB subset of the deduplicated 825GB The Pile corpus. To curate MiniPile, we perform a simple, three-step data filtering process: we (1) infer embeddings for all documents of the Pile, (2) cluster the embedding space using $k$-means, and (3) filter out low-quality clusters. To verify MiniPile's suitability for language model pre-training, we use it to pre-train a BERT and T5 model, yielding a performance drop of only $1.9\%$/$2.5\%$ on the GLUE and SNI benchmarks compared to the original pre-trained checkpoints trained on $2.6$x/$745$x the amount of data. MiniPile is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/JeanKaddour/minipile. 

**Title:** ImpressionGPT: An Iterative Optimizing Framework for Radiology Report  Summarization with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08448

**Abstract:** The 'Impression' section of a radiology report is a critical basis for communication between radiologists and other physicians, and it is typically written by radiologists based on the 'Findings' section. However, writing numerous impressions can be laborious and error-prone for radiologists. Although recent studies have achieved promising results in automatic impression generation using large-scale medical text data for pre-training and fine-tuning pre-trained language models, such models often require substantial amounts of medical text data and have poor generalization performance. While large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have shown strong generalization capabilities and performance, their performance in specific domains, such as radiology, remains under-investigated and potentially limited. To address this limitation, we propose ImpressionGPT, which leverages the in-context learning capability of LLMs by constructing dynamic contexts using domain-specific, individualized data. This dynamic prompt approach enables the model to learn contextual knowledge from semantically similar examples from existing data. Additionally, we design an iterative optimization algorithm that performs automatic evaluation on the generated impression results and composes the corresponding instruction prompts to further optimize the model. The proposed ImpressionGPT model achieves state-of-the-art performance on both MIMIC-CXR and OpenI datasets without requiring additional training data or fine-tuning the LLMs. This work presents a paradigm for localizing LLMs that can be applied in a wide range of similar application scenarios, bridging the gap between general-purpose LLMs and the specific language processing needs of various domains. 

**Title:** Learning to Render Novel Views from Wide-Baseline Stereo Pairs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08463

**Abstract:** We introduce a method for novel view synthesis given only a single wide-baseline stereo image pair. In this challenging regime, 3D scene points are regularly observed only once, requiring prior-based reconstruction of scene geometry and appearance. We find that existing approaches to novel view synthesis from sparse observations fail due to recovering incorrect 3D geometry and due to the high cost of differentiable rendering that precludes their scaling to large-scale training. We take a step towards resolving these shortcomings by formulating a multi-view transformer encoder, proposing an efficient, image-space epipolar line sampling scheme to assemble image features for a target ray, and a lightweight cross-attention-based renderer. Our contributions enable training of our method on a large-scale real-world dataset of indoor and outdoor scenes. We demonstrate that our method learns powerful multi-view geometry priors while reducing the rendering time. We conduct extensive comparisons on held-out test scenes across two real-world datasets, significantly outperforming prior work on novel view synthesis from sparse image observations and achieving multi-view-consistent novel view synthesis. 

**Title:** MasaCtrl: Tuning-Free Mutual Self-Attention Control for Consistent Image  Synthesis and Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08465

**Abstract:** Despite the success in large-scale text-to-image generation and text-conditioned image editing, existing methods still struggle to produce consistent generation and editing results. For example, generation approaches usually fail to synthesize multiple images of the same objects/characters but with different views or poses. Meanwhile, existing editing methods either fail to achieve effective complex non-rigid editing while maintaining the overall textures and identity, or require time-consuming fine-tuning to capture the image-specific appearance. In this paper, we develop MasaCtrl, a tuning-free method to achieve consistent image generation and complex non-rigid image editing simultaneously. Specifically, MasaCtrl converts existing self-attention in diffusion models into mutual self-attention, so that it can query correlated local contents and textures from source images for consistency. To further alleviate the query confusion between foreground and background, we propose a mask-guided mutual self-attention strategy, where the mask can be easily extracted from the cross-attention maps. Extensive experiments show that the proposed MasaCtrl can produce impressive results in both consistent image generation and complex non-rigid real image editing. 

**Title:** Synthetic Data from Diffusion Models Improves ImageNet Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08466

**Abstract:** Deep generative models are becoming increasingly powerful, now generating diverse high fidelity photo-realistic samples given text prompts. Have they reached the point where models of natural images can be used for generative data augmentation, helping to improve challenging discriminative tasks? We show that large-scale text-to image diffusion models can be fine-tuned to produce class conditional models with SOTA FID (1.76 at 256x256 resolution) and Inception Score (239 at 256x256). The model also yields a new SOTA in Classification Accuracy Scores (64.96 for 256x256 generative samples, improving to 69.24 for 1024x1024 samples). Augmenting the ImageNet training set with samples from the resulting models yields significant improvements in ImageNet classification accuracy over strong ResNet and Vision Transformer baselines. 

**Title:** Latent-Shift: Latent Diffusion with Temporal Shift for Efficient  Text-to-Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08477

**Abstract:** We propose Latent-Shift -- an efficient text-to-video generation method based on a pretrained text-to-image generation model that consists of an autoencoder and a U-Net diffusion model. Learning a video diffusion model in the latent space is much more efficient than in the pixel space. The latter is often limited to first generating a low-resolution video followed by a sequence of frame interpolation and super-resolution models, which makes the entire pipeline very complex and computationally expensive. To extend a U-Net from image generation to video generation, prior work proposes to add additional modules like 1D temporal convolution and/or temporal attention layers. In contrast, we propose a parameter-free temporal shift module that can leverage the spatial U-Net as is for video generation. We achieve this by shifting two portions of the feature map channels forward and backward along the temporal dimension. The shifted features of the current frame thus receive the features from the previous and the subsequent frames, enabling motion learning without additional parameters. We show that Latent-Shift achieves comparable or better results while being significantly more efficient. Moreover, Latent-Shift can generate images despite being finetuned for T2V generation. 

**Title:** DisCo-CLIP: A Distributed Contrastive Loss for Memory Efficient CLIP  Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08480

**Abstract:** We propose DisCo-CLIP, a distributed memory-efficient CLIP training approach, to reduce the memory consumption of contrastive loss when training contrastive learning models. Our approach decomposes the contrastive loss and its gradient computation into two parts, one to calculate the intra-GPU gradients and the other to compute the inter-GPU gradients. According to our decomposition, only the intra-GPU gradients are computed on the current GPU, while the inter-GPU gradients are collected via all_reduce from other GPUs instead of being repeatedly computed on every GPU. In this way, we can reduce the GPU memory consumption of contrastive loss computation from $\bigO(B^2)$ to $\bigO(\frac{B^2}{N})$, where $B$ and $N$ are the batch size and the number of GPUs used for training. Such a distributed solution is mathematically equivalent to the original non-distributed contrastive loss computation, without sacrificing any computation accuracy. It is particularly efficient for large-batch CLIP training. For instance, DisCo-CLIP can enable contrastive training of a ViT-B/32 model with a batch size of 32K or 196K using 8 or 64 A100 40GB GPUs, compared with the original CLIP solution which requires 128 A100 40GB GPUs to train a ViT-B/32 model with a batch size of 32K. The code will be released at https://github.com/IDEA-Research/DisCo-CLIP 

**Title:** Text2Performer: Text-Driven Human Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08483

**Abstract:** Text-driven content creation has evolved to be a transformative technique that revolutionizes creativity. Here we study the task of text-driven human video generation, where a video sequence is synthesized from texts describing the appearance and motions of a target performer. Compared to general text-driven video generation, human-centric video generation requires maintaining the appearance of synthesized human while performing complex motions. In this work, we present Text2Performer to generate vivid human videos with articulated motions from texts. Text2Performer has two novel designs: 1) decomposed human representation and 2) diffusion-based motion sampler. First, we decompose the VQVAE latent space into human appearance and pose representation in an unsupervised manner by utilizing the nature of human videos. In this way, the appearance is well maintained along the generated frames. Then, we propose continuous VQ-diffuser to sample a sequence of pose embeddings. Unlike existing VQ-based methods that operate in the discrete space, continuous VQ-diffuser directly outputs the continuous pose embeddings for better motion modeling. Finally, motion-aware masking strategy is designed to mask the pose embeddings spatial-temporally to enhance the temporal coherence. Moreover, to facilitate the task of text-driven human video generation, we contribute a Fashion-Text2Video dataset with manually annotated action labels and text descriptions. Extensive experiments demonstrate that Text2Performer generates high-quality human videos (up to 512x256 resolution) with diverse appearances and flexible motions. 

**Title:** Visual Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08485

**Abstract:** Instruction tuning large language models (LLMs) using machine-generated instruction-following data has improved zero-shot capabilities on new tasks, but the idea is less explored in the multimodal field. In this paper, we present the first attempt to use language-only GPT-4 to generate multimodal language-image instruction-following data. By instruction tuning on such generated data, we introduce LLaVA: Large Language and Vision Assistant, an end-to-end trained large multimodal model that connects a vision encoder and LLM for general-purpose visual and language understanding.Our early experiments show that LLaVA demonstrates impressive multimodel chat abilities, sometimes exhibiting the behaviors of multimodal GPT-4 on unseen images/instructions, and yields a 85.1% relative score compared with GPT-4 on a synthetic multimodal instruction-following dataset. When fine-tuned on Science QA, the synergy of LLaVA and GPT-4 achieves a new state-of-the-art accuracy of 92.53%. We make GPT-4 generated visual instruction tuning data, our model and code base publicly available. 

**Title:** Hyper-Decision Transformer for Efficient Online Policy Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08487

**Abstract:** Decision Transformers (DT) have demonstrated strong performances in offline reinforcement learning settings, but quickly adapting to unseen novel tasks remains challenging. To address this challenge, we propose a new framework, called Hyper-Decision Transformer (HDT), that can generalize to novel tasks from a handful of demonstrations in a data- and parameter-efficient manner. To achieve such a goal, we propose to augment the base DT with an adaptation module, whose parameters are initialized by a hyper-network. When encountering unseen tasks, the hyper-network takes a handful of demonstrations as inputs and initializes the adaptation module accordingly. This initialization enables HDT to efficiently adapt to novel tasks by only fine-tuning the adaptation module. We validate HDT's generalization capability on object manipulation tasks. We find that with a single expert demonstration and fine-tuning only 0.5% of DT parameters, HDT adapts faster to unseen tasks than fine-tuning the whole DT model. Finally, we explore a more challenging setting where expert actions are not available, and we show that HDT outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in terms of task success rates by a large margin. 

**Title:** STRAP: Structured Object Affordance Segmentation with Point Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08492

**Abstract:** With significant annotation savings, point supervision has been proven effective for numerous 2D and 3D scene understanding problems. This success is primarily attributed to the structured output space; i.e., samples with high spatial affinity tend to share the same labels. Sharing this spirit, we study affordance segmentation with point supervision, wherein the setting inherits an unexplored dual affinity-spatial affinity and label affinity. By label affinity, we refer to affordance segmentation as a multi-label prediction problem: A plate can be both holdable and containable. By spatial affinity, we refer to a universal prior that nearby pixels with similar visual features should share the same point annotation. To tackle label affinity, we devise a dense prediction network that enhances label relations by effectively densifying labels in a new domain (i.e., label co-occurrence). To address spatial affinity, we exploit a Transformer backbone for global patch interaction and a regularization loss. In experiments, we benchmark our method on the challenging CAD120 dataset, showing significant performance gains over prior methods. 

**Title:** Can ChatGPT Forecast Stock Price Movements? Return Predictability and  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07619

**Abstract:** We examine the potential of ChatGPT, and other large language models, in predicting stock market returns using sentiment analysis of news headlines. We use ChatGPT to indicate whether a given headline is good, bad, or irrelevant news for firms' stock prices. We then compute a numerical score and document a positive correlation between these ``ChatGPT scores'' and subsequent daily stock market returns. Further, ChatGPT outperforms traditional sentiment analysis methods. We find that more basic models such as GPT-1, GPT-2, and BERT cannot accurately forecast returns, indicating return predictability is an emerging capacity of complex models. Our results suggest that incorporating advanced language models into the investment decision-making process can yield more accurate predictions and enhance the performance of quantitative trading strategies. 

**Title:** Dimensionality Reduction as Probabilistic Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07658

**Abstract:** Dimensionality reduction (DR) algorithms compress high-dimensional data into a lower dimensional representation while preserving important features of the data. DR is a critical step in many analysis pipelines as it enables visualisation, noise reduction and efficient downstream processing of the data. In this work, we introduce the ProbDR variational framework, which interprets a wide range of classical DR algorithms as probabilistic inference algorithms in this framework. ProbDR encompasses PCA, CMDS, LLE, LE, MVU, diffusion maps, kPCA, Isomap, (t-)SNE, and UMAP. In our framework, a low-dimensional latent variable is used to construct a covariance, precision, or a graph Laplacian matrix, which can be used as part of a generative model for the data. Inference is done by optimizing an evidence lower bound. We demonstrate the internal consistency of our framework and show that it enables the use of probabilistic programming languages (PPLs) for DR. Additionally, we illustrate that the framework facilitates reasoning about unseen data and argue that our generative models approximate Gaussian processes (GPs) on manifolds. By providing a unified view of DR, our framework facilitates communication, reasoning about uncertainties, model composition, and extensions, particularly when domain knowledge is present. 

**Title:** Arbitrary Reduction of MRI Inter-slice Spacing Using Hierarchical  Feature Conditional Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07756

**Abstract:** Magnetic resonance (MR) images collected in 2D scanning protocols typically have large inter-slice spacing, resulting in high in-plane resolution but reduced through-plane resolution. Super-resolution techniques can reduce the inter-slice spacing of 2D scanned MR images, facilitating the downstream visual experience and computer-aided diagnosis. However, most existing super-resolution methods are trained at a fixed scaling ratio, which is inconvenient in clinical settings where MR scanning may have varying inter-slice spacings. To solve this issue, we propose Hierarchical Feature Conditional Diffusion (HiFi-Diff)} for arbitrary reduction of MR inter-slice spacing. Given two adjacent MR slices and the relative positional offset, HiFi-Diff can iteratively convert a Gaussian noise map into any desired in-between MR slice. Furthermore, to enable fine-grained conditioning, the Hierarchical Feature Extraction (HiFE) module is proposed to hierarchically extract conditional features and conduct element-wise modulation. Our experimental results on the publicly available HCP-1200 dataset demonstrate the high-fidelity super-resolution capability of HiFi-Diff and its efficacy in enhancing downstream segmentation performance. 

**Title:** A Virtual Simulation-Pilot Agent for Training of Air Traffic Controllers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.07842

**Abstract:** In this paper we propose a novel virtual simulation-pilot engine for speeding up air traffic controller (ATCo) training by integrating different state-of-the-art artificial intelligence (AI) based tools. The virtual simulation-pilot engine receives spoken communications from ATCo trainees, and it performs automatic speech recognition and understanding. Thus, it goes beyond only transcribing the communication and can also understand its meaning. The output is subsequently sent to a response generator system, which resembles the spoken read back that pilots give to the ATCo trainees. The overall pipeline is composed of the following submodules: (i) automatic speech recognition (ASR) system that transforms audio into a sequence of words; (ii) high-level air traffic control (ATC) related entity parser that understands the transcribed voice communication; and (iii) a text-to-speech submodule that generates a spoken utterance that resembles a pilot based on the situation of the dialogue. Our system employs state-of-the-art AI-based tools such as Wav2Vec 2.0, Conformer, BERT and Tacotron models. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work fully based on open-source ATC resources and AI tools. In addition, we have developed a robust and modular system with optional submodules that can enhance the system's performance by incorporating real-time surveillance data, metadata related to exercises (such as sectors or runways), or even introducing a deliberate read-back error to train ATCo trainees to identify them. Our ASR system can reach as low as 5.5% and 15.9% word error rates (WER) on high and low-quality ATC audio. We also demonstrate that adding surveillance data into the ASR can yield callsign detection accuracy of more than 96%. 

**Title:** Two-stage MR Image Segmentation Method for Brain Tumors based on  Attention Mechanism  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08072

**Abstract:** Multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can reveal different patterns of human tissue and is crucial for clinical diagnosis. However, limited by cost, noise and manual labeling, obtaining diverse and reliable multimodal MR images remains a challenge. For the same lesion, different MRI manifestations have great differences in background information, coarse positioning and fine structure. In order to obtain better generation and segmentation performance, a coordination-spatial attention generation adversarial network (CASP-GAN) based on the cycle-consistent generative adversarial network (CycleGAN) is proposed. The performance of the generator is optimized by introducing the Coordinate Attention (CA) module and the Spatial Attention (SA) module. The two modules can make full use of the captured location information, accurately locating the interested region, and enhancing the generator model network structure. The ability to extract the structure information and the detailed information of the original medical image can help generate the desired image with higher quality. There exist some problems in the original CycleGAN that the training time is long, the parameter amount is too large, and it is difficult to converge. In response to this problem, we introduce the Coordinate Attention (CA) module to replace the Res Block to reduce the number of parameters, and cooperate with the spatial information extraction network above to strengthen the information extraction ability. On the basis of CASP-GAN, an attentional generative cross-modality segmentation (AGCMS) method is further proposed. This method inputs the modalities generated by CASP-GAN and the real modalities into the segmentation network for brain tumor segmentation. Experimental results show that CASP-GAN outperforms CycleGAN and some state-of-the-art methods in PSNR, SSMI and RMSE in most tasks. 

**Title:** Deep-Learning-based Vascularture Extraction for Single-Scan Optical  Coherence Tomography Angiography  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08282

**Abstract:** Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) is a non-invasive imaging modality that extends the functionality of OCT by extracting moving red blood cell signals from surrounding static biological tissues. OCTA has emerged as a valuable tool for analyzing skin microvasculature, enabling more accurate diagnosis and treatment monitoring. Most existing OCTA extraction algorithms, such as speckle variance (SV)- and eigen-decomposition (ED)-OCTA, implement a larger number of repeated (NR) OCT scans at the same position to produce high-quality angiography images. However, a higher NR requires a longer data acquisition time, leading to more unpredictable motion artifacts. In this study, we propose a vasculature extraction pipeline that uses only one-repeated OCT scan to generate OCTA images. The pipeline is based on the proposed Vasculature Extraction Transformer (VET), which leverages convolutional projection to better learn the spatial relationships between image patches. In comparison to OCTA images obtained via the SV-OCTA (PSNR: 17.809) and ED-OCTA (PSNR: 18.049) using four-repeated OCT scans, OCTA images extracted by VET exhibit moderate quality (PSNR: 17.515) and higher image contrast while reducing the required data acquisition time from ~8 s to ~2 s. Based on visual observations, the proposed VET outperforms SV and ED algorithms when using neck and face OCTA data in areas that are challenging to scan. This study represents that the VET has the capacity to extract vascularture images from a fast one-repeated OCT scan, facilitating accurate diagnosis for patients. 

**Title:** Transformer with Selective Shuffled Position Embedding using  ROI-Exchange Strategy for Early Detection of Knee Osteoarthritis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08364

**Abstract:** Knee OsteoArthritis (KOA) is a prevalent musculoskeletal disorder that causes decreased mobility in seniors. The lack of sufficient data in the medical field is always a challenge for training a learning model due to the high cost of labelling. At present, deep neural network training strongly depends on data augmentation to improve the model's generalization capability and avoid over-fitting. However, existing data augmentation operations, such as rotation, gamma correction, etc., are designed based on the data itself, which does not substantially increase the data diversity. In this paper, we proposed a novel approach based on the Vision Transformer (ViT) model with Selective Shuffled Position Embedding (SSPE) and a ROI-exchange strategy to obtain different input sequences as a method of data augmentation for early detection of KOA (KL-0 vs KL-2). More specifically, we fixed and shuffled the position embedding of ROI and non-ROI patches, respectively. Then, for the input image, we randomly selected other images from the training set to exchange their ROI patches and thus obtained different input sequences. Finally, a hybrid loss function was derived using different loss functions with optimized weights. Experimental results show that our proposed approach is a valid method of data augmentation as it can significantly improve the model's classification performance. 

**Title:** Long-term Forecasting with TiDE: Time-series Dense Encoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08424

**Abstract:** Recent work has shown that simple linear models can outperform several Transformer based approaches in long term time-series forecasting. Motivated by this, we propose a Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP) based encoder-decoder model, Time-series Dense Encoder (TiDE), for long-term time-series forecasting that enjoys the simplicity and speed of linear models while also being able to handle covariates and non-linear dependencies. Theoretically, we prove that the simplest linear analogue of our model can achieve near optimal error rate for linear dynamical systems (LDS) under some assumptions. Empirically, we show that our method can match or outperform prior approaches on popular long-term time-series forecasting benchmarks while being 5-10x faster than the best Transformer based model. 

