**Title:** CyFormer: Accurate State-of-Health Prediction of Lithium-Ion Batteries  via Cyclic Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08502

**Abstract:** Predicting the State-of-Health (SoH) of lithium-ion batteries is a fundamental task of battery management systems on electric vehicles. It aims at estimating future SoH based on historical aging data. Most existing deep learning methods rely on filter-based feature extractors (e.g., CNN or Kalman filters) and recurrent time sequence models. Though efficient, they generally ignore cyclic features and the domain gap between training and testing batteries. To address this problem, we present CyFormer, a transformer-based cyclic time sequence model for SoH prediction. Instead of the conventional CNN-RNN structure, we adopt an encoder-decoder architecture. In the encoder, row-wise and column-wise attention blocks effectively capture intra-cycle and inter-cycle connections and extract cyclic features. In the decoder, the SoH queries cross-attend to these features to form the final predictions. We further utilize a transfer learning strategy to narrow the domain gap between the training and testing set. To be specific, we use fine-tuning to shift the model to a target working condition. Finally, we made our model more efficient by pruning. The experiment shows that our method attains an MAE of 0.75\% with only 10\% data for fine-tuning on a testing battery, surpassing prior methods by a large margin. Effective and robust, our method provides a potential solution for all cyclic time sequence prediction tasks. 

**Title:** Avatars Grow Legs: Generating Smooth Human Motion from Sparse Tracking  Inputs with Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08577

**Abstract:** With the recent surge in popularity of AR/VR applications, realistic and accurate control of 3D full-body avatars has become a highly demanded feature. A particular challenge is that only a sparse tracking signal is available from standalone HMDs (Head Mounted Devices), often limited to tracking the user's head and wrists. While this signal is resourceful for reconstructing the upper body motion, the lower body is not tracked and must be synthesized from the limited information provided by the upper body joints. In this paper, we present AGRoL, a novel conditional diffusion model specifically designed to track full bodies given sparse upper-body tracking signals. Our model is based on a simple multi-layer perceptron (MLP) architecture and a novel conditioning scheme for motion data. It can predict accurate and smooth full-body motion, particularly the challenging lower body movement. Unlike common diffusion architectures, our compact architecture can run in real-time, making it suitable for online body-tracking applications. We train and evaluate our model on AMASS motion capture dataset, and demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods in generated motion accuracy and smoothness. We further justify our design choices through extensive experiments and ablation studies. 

**Title:** Classification of US Supreme Court Cases using BERT-Based Techniques  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08649

**Abstract:** Models based on bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) produce state of the art (SOTA) results on many natural language processing (NLP) tasks such as named entity recognition (NER), part-of-speech (POS) tagging etc. An interesting phenomenon occurs when classifying long documents such as those from the US supreme court where BERT-based models can be considered difficult to use on a first-pass or out-of-the-box basis. In this paper, we experiment with several BERT-based classification techniques for US supreme court decisions or supreme court database (SCDB) and compare them with the previous SOTA results. We then compare our results specifically with SOTA models for long documents. We compare our results for two classification tasks: (1) a broad classification task with 15 categories and (2) a fine-grained classification task with 279 categories. Our best result produces an accuracy of 80\% on the 15 broad categories and 60\% on the fine-grained 279 categories which marks an improvement of 8\% and 28\% respectively from previously reported SOTA results. 

**Title:** Insta(nt) Pet Therapy: GAN-generated Images for Therapeutic Social Media  Content  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08665

**Abstract:** The positive therapeutic effect of viewing pet images online has been well-studied. However, it is difficult to obtain large-scale production of such content since it relies on pet owners to capture photographs and upload them. I use a Generative Adversarial Network-based framework for the creation of fake pet images at scale. These images are uploaded on an Instagram account where they drive user engagement at levels comparable to those seen with images from accounts with traditional pet photographs, underlining the applicability of the framework to be used for pet-therapy social media content. 

**Title:** W-MAE: Pre-trained weather model with masked autoencoder for  multi-variable weather forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08754

**Abstract:** Weather forecasting is a long-standing computational challenge with direct societal and economic impacts. This task involves a large amount of continuous data collection and exhibits rich spatiotemporal dependencies over long periods, making it highly suitable for deep learning models. In this paper, we apply pre-training techniques to weather forecasting and propose W-MAE, a Weather model with Masked AutoEncoder pre-training for multi-variable weather forecasting. W-MAE is pre-trained in a self-supervised manner to reconstruct spatial correlations within meteorological variables. On the temporal scale, we fine-tune the pre-trained W-MAE to predict the future states of meteorological variables, thereby modeling the temporal dependencies present in weather data. We pre-train W-MAE using the fifth-generation ECMWF Reanalysis (ERA5) data, with samples selected every six hours and using only two years of data. Under the same training data conditions, we compare W-MAE with FourCastNet, and W-MAE outperforms FourCastNet in precipitation forecasting. In the setting where the training data is far less than that of FourCastNet, our model still performs much better in precipitation prediction (0.80 vs. 0.98). Additionally, experiments show that our model has a stable and significant advantage in short-to-medium-range forecasting (i.e., forecasting time ranges from 6 hours to one week), and the longer the prediction time, the more evident the performance advantage of W-MAE, further proving its robustness. 

**Title:** NeAI: A Pre-convoluted Representation for Plug-and-Play Neural Ambient  Illumination  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08757

**Abstract:** Recent advances in implicit neural representation have demonstrated the ability to recover detailed geometry and material from multi-view images. However, the use of simplified lighting models such as environment maps to represent non-distant illumination, or using a network to fit indirect light modeling without a solid basis, can lead to an undesirable decomposition between lighting and material. To address this, we propose a fully differentiable framework named neural ambient illumination (NeAI) that uses Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) as a lighting model to handle complex lighting in a physically based way. Together with integral lobe encoding for roughness-adaptive specular lobe and leveraging the pre-convoluted background for accurate decomposition, the proposed method represents a significant step towards integrating physically based rendering into the NeRF representation. The experiments demonstrate the superior performance of novel-view rendering compared to previous works, and the capability to re-render objects under arbitrary NeRF-style environments opens up exciting possibilities for bridging the gap between virtual and real-world scenes. The project and supplementary materials are available at https://yiyuzhuang.github.io/NeAI/. 

**Title:** Deep Unrestricted Document Image Rectification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08796

**Abstract:** In recent years, tremendous efforts have been made on document image rectification, but existing advanced algorithms are limited to processing restricted document images, i.e., the input images must incorporate a complete document. Once the captured image merely involves a local text region, its rectification quality is degraded and unsatisfactory. Our previously proposed DocTr, a transformer-assisted network for document image rectification, also suffers from this limitation. In this work, we present DocTr++, a novel unified framework for document image rectification, without any restrictions on the input distorted images. Our major technical improvements can be concluded in three aspects. Firstly, we upgrade the original architecture by adopting a hierarchical encoder-decoder structure for multi-scale representation extraction and parsing. Secondly, we reformulate the pixel-wise mapping relationship between the unrestricted distorted document images and the distortion-free counterparts. The obtained data is used to train our DocTr++ for unrestricted document image rectification. Thirdly, we contribute a real-world test set and metrics applicable for evaluating the rectification quality. To our best knowledge, this is the first learning-based method for the rectification of unrestricted document images. Extensive experiments are conducted, and the results demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our method. We hope our DocTr++ will serve as a strong baseline for generic document image rectification, prompting the further advancement and application of learning-based algorithms. The source code and the proposed dataset are publicly available at https://github.com/fh2019ustc/DocTr-Plus. 

**Title:** Revisiting the Role of Similarity and Dissimilarity inBest Counter  Argument Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08807

**Abstract:** This paper studies the task of best counter-argument retrieval given an input argument. Following the definition that the best counter-argument addresses the same aspects as the input argument while having the opposite stance, we aim to develop an efficient and effective model for scoring counter-arguments based on similarity and dissimilarity metrics. We first conduct an experimental study on the effectiveness of available scoring methods, including traditional Learning-To-Rank (LTR) and recent neural scoring models. We then propose Bipolar-encoder, a novel BERT-based model to learn an optimal representation for simultaneous similarity and dissimilarity. Experimental results show that our proposed method can achieve the accuracy@1 of 88.9\%, which significantly outperforms other baselines by a large margin. When combined with an appropriate caching technique, Bipolar-encoder is comparably efficient at prediction time. 

**Title:** SViTT: Temporal Learning of Sparse Video-Text Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08809

**Abstract:** Do video-text transformers learn to model temporal relationships across frames? Despite their immense capacity and the abundance of multimodal training data, recent work has revealed the strong tendency of video-text models towards frame-based spatial representations, while temporal reasoning remains largely unsolved. In this work, we identify several key challenges in temporal learning of video-text transformers: the spatiotemporal trade-off from limited network size; the curse of dimensionality for multi-frame modeling; and the diminishing returns of semantic information by extending clip length. Guided by these findings, we propose SViTT, a sparse video-text architecture that performs multi-frame reasoning with significantly lower cost than naive transformers with dense attention. Analogous to graph-based networks, SViTT employs two forms of sparsity: edge sparsity that limits the query-key communications between tokens in self-attention, and node sparsity that discards uninformative visual tokens. Trained with a curriculum which increases model sparsity with the clip length, SViTT outperforms dense transformer baselines on multiple video-text retrieval and question answering benchmarks, with a fraction of computational cost. Project page: 

**Title:** Align your Latents: High-Resolution Video Synthesis with Latent  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08818

**Abstract:** Latent Diffusion Models (LDMs) enable high-quality image synthesis while avoiding excessive compute demands by training a diffusion model in a compressed lower-dimensional latent space. Here, we apply the LDM paradigm to high-resolution video generation, a particularly resource-intensive task. We first pre-train an LDM on images only; then, we turn the image generator into a video generator by introducing a temporal dimension to the latent space diffusion model and fine-tuning on encoded image sequences, i.e., videos. Similarly, we temporally align diffusion model upsamplers, turning them into temporally consistent video super resolution models. We focus on two relevant real-world applications: Simulation of in-the-wild driving data and creative content creation with text-to-video modeling. In particular, we validate our Video LDM on real driving videos of resolution 512 x 1024, achieving state-of-the-art performance. Furthermore, our approach can easily leverage off-the-shelf pre-trained image LDMs, as we only need to train a temporal alignment model in that case. Doing so, we turn the publicly available, state-of-the-art text-to-image LDM Stable Diffusion into an efficient and expressive text-to-video model with resolution up to 1280 x 2048. We show that the temporal layers trained in this way generalize to different fine-tuned text-to-image LDMs. Utilizing this property, we show the first results for personalized text-to-video generation, opening exciting directions for future content creation. Project page: https://research.nvidia.com/labs/toronto-ai/VideoLDM/ 

**Title:** Motion-state Alignment for Video Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08820

**Abstract:** In recent years, video semantic segmentation has made great progress with advanced deep neural networks. However, there still exist two main challenges \ie, information inconsistency and computation cost. To deal with the two difficulties, we propose a novel motion-state alignment framework for video semantic segmentation to keep both motion and state consistency. In the framework, we first construct a motion alignment branch armed with an efficient decoupled transformer to capture dynamic semantics, guaranteeing region-level temporal consistency. Then, a state alignment branch composed of a stage transformer is designed to enrich feature spaces for the current frame to extract static semantics and achieve pixel-level state consistency. Next, by a semantic assignment mechanism, the region descriptor of each semantic category is gained from dynamic semantics and linked with pixel descriptors from static semantics. Benefiting from the alignment of these two kinds of effective information, the proposed method picks up dynamic and static semantics in a targeted way, so that video semantic regions are consistently segmented to obtain precise locations with low computational complexity. Extensive experiments on Cityscapes and CamVid datasets show that the proposed approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods and validates the effectiveness of the motion-state alignment framework. 

**Title:** TTIDA: Controllable Generative Data Augmentation via Text-to-Text and  Text-to-Image Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08821

**Abstract:** Data augmentation has been established as an efficacious approach to supplement useful information for low-resource datasets. Traditional augmentation techniques such as noise injection and image transformations have been widely used. In addition, generative data augmentation (GDA) has been shown to produce more diverse and flexible data. While generative adversarial networks (GANs) have been frequently used for GDA, they lack diversity and controllability compared to text-to-image diffusion models. In this paper, we propose TTIDA (Text-to-Text-to-Image Data Augmentation) to leverage the capabilities of large-scale pre-trained Text-to-Text (T2T) and Text-to-Image (T2I) generative models for data augmentation. By conditioning the T2I model on detailed descriptions produced by T2T models, we are able to generate photo-realistic labeled images in a flexible and controllable manner. Experiments on in-domain classification, cross-domain classification, and image captioning tasks show consistent improvements over other data augmentation baselines. Analytical studies in varied settings, including few-shot, long-tail, and adversarial, further reinforce the effectiveness of TTIDA in enhancing performance and increasing robustness. 

**Title:** Transfer to a Low-Resource Language via Close Relatives: The Case Study  on Faroese  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08823

**Abstract:** Multilingual language models have pushed state-of-the-art in cross-lingual NLP transfer. The majority of zero-shot cross-lingual transfer, however, use one and the same massively multilingual transformer (e.g., mBERT or XLM-R) to transfer to all target languages, irrespective of their typological, etymological, and phylogenetic relations to other languages. In particular, readily available data and models of resource-rich sibling languages are often ignored. In this work, we empirically show, in a case study for Faroese -- a low-resource language from a high-resource language family -- that by leveraging the phylogenetic information and departing from the 'one-size-fits-all' paradigm, one can improve cross-lingual transfer to low-resource languages. In particular, we leverage abundant resources of other Scandinavian languages (i.e., Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, and Icelandic) for the benefit of Faroese. Our evaluation results show that we can substantially improve the transfer performance to Faroese by exploiting data and models of closely-related high-resource languages. Further, we release a new web corpus of Faroese and Faroese datasets for named entity recognition (NER), semantic text similarity (STS), and new language models trained on all Scandinavian languages. 

**Title:** Two-stage Denoising Diffusion Model for Source Localization in Graph  Inverse Problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08841

**Abstract:** Source localization is the inverse problem of graph information dissemination and has broad practical applications. 

**Title:** Saliency-aware Stereoscopic Video Retargeting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08852

**Abstract:** Stereo video retargeting aims to resize an image to a desired aspect ratio. The quality of retargeted videos can be significantly impacted by the stereo videos spatial, temporal, and disparity coherence, all of which can be impacted by the retargeting process. Due to the lack of a publicly accessible annotated dataset, there is little research on deep learning-based methods for stereo video retargeting. This paper proposes an unsupervised deep learning-based stereo video retargeting network. Our model first detects the salient objects and shifts and warps all objects such that it minimizes the distortion of the salient parts of the stereo frames. We use 1D convolution for shifting the salient objects and design a stereo video Transformer to assist the retargeting process. To train the network, we use the parallax attention mechanism to fuse the left and right views and feed the retargeted frames to a reconstruction module that reverses the retargeted frames to the input frames. Therefore, the network is trained in an unsupervised manner. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments and ablation studies on KITTI stereo 2012 and 2015 datasets demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed method over the existing state-of-the-art methods. The code is available at https://github.com/z65451/SVR/. 

**Title:** Approximate Nearest Neighbour Phrase Mining for Contextual Speech  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08862

**Abstract:** This paper presents an extension to train end-to-end Context-Aware Transformer Transducer ( CATT ) models by using a simple, yet efficient method of mining hard negative phrases from the latent space of the context encoder. During training, given a reference query, we mine a number of similar phrases using approximate nearest neighbour search. These sampled phrases are then used as negative examples in the context list alongside random and ground truth contextual information. By including approximate nearest neighbour phrases (ANN-P) in the context list, we encourage the learned representation to disambiguate between similar, but not identical, biasing phrases. This improves biasing accuracy when there are several similar phrases in the biasing inventory. We carry out experiments in a large-scale data regime obtaining up to 7% relative word error rate reductions for the contextual portion of test data. We also extend and evaluate CATT approach in streaming applications. 

**Title:** UPGPT: Universal Diffusion Model for Person Image Generation, Editing  and Pose Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08870

**Abstract:** Existing person image generative models can do either image generation or pose transfer but not both. We propose a unified diffusion model, UPGPT to provide a universal solution to perform all the person image tasks - generative, pose transfer, and editing. With fine-grained multimodality and disentanglement capabilities, our approach offers fine-grained control over the generation and the editing process of images using a combination of pose, text, and image, all without needing a semantic segmentation mask which can be challenging to obtain or edit. We also pioneer the parameterized body SMPL model in pose-guided person image generation to demonstrate new capability - simultaneous pose and camera view interpolation while maintaining a person's appearance. Results on the benchmark DeepFashion dataset show that UPGPT is the new state-of-the-art while simultaneously pioneering new capabilities of edit and pose transfer in human image generation. 

**Title:** Audio-Driven Talking Face Generation with Diverse yet Realistic Facial  Animations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08945

**Abstract:** Audio-driven talking face generation, which aims to synthesize talking faces with realistic facial animations (including accurate lip movements, vivid facial expression details and natural head poses) corresponding to the audio, has achieved rapid progress in recent years. However, most existing work focuses on generating lip movements only without handling the closely correlated facial expressions, which degrades the realism of the generated faces greatly. This paper presents DIRFA, a novel method that can generate talking faces with diverse yet realistic facial animations from the same driving audio. To accommodate fair variation of plausible facial animations for the same audio, we design a transformer-based probabilistic mapping network that can model the variational facial animation distribution conditioned upon the input audio and autoregressively convert the audio signals into a facial animation sequence. In addition, we introduce a temporally-biased mask into the mapping network, which allows to model the temporal dependency of facial animations and produce temporally smooth facial animation sequence. With the generated facial animation sequence and a source image, photo-realistic talking faces can be synthesized with a generic generation network. Extensive experiments show that DIRFA can generate talking faces with realistic facial animations effectively. 

**Title:** From Words to Music: A Study of Subword Tokenization Techniques in  Symbolic Music Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08953

**Abstract:** Subword tokenization has been widely successful in text-based natural language processing (NLP) tasks with Transformer-based models. As Transformer models become increasingly popular in symbolic music-related studies, it is imperative to investigate the efficacy of subword tokenization in the symbolic music domain. In this paper, we explore subword tokenization techniques, such as byte-pair encoding (BPE), in symbolic music generation and its impact on the overall structure of generated songs. Our experiments are based on three types of MIDI datasets: single track-melody only, multi-track with a single instrument, and multi-track and multi-instrument. We apply subword tokenization on post-musical tokenization schemes and find that it enables the generation of longer songs at the same time and improves the overall structure of the generated music in terms of objective metrics like structure indicator (SI), Pitch Class Entropy, etc. We also compare two subword tokenization methods, BPE and Unigram, and observe that both methods lead to consistent improvements. Our study suggests that subword tokenization is a promising technique for symbolic music generation and may have broader implications for music composition, particularly in cases involving complex data such as multi-track songs. 

**Title:** PG-VTON: A Novel Image-Based Virtual Try-On Method via Progressive  Inference Paradigm  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08956

**Abstract:** Virtual try-on is a promising computer vision topic with a high commercial value wherein a new garment is visually worn on a person with a photo-realistic effect. Previous studies conduct their shape and content inference at one stage, employing a single-scale warping mechanism and a relatively unsophisticated content inference mechanism. These approaches have led to suboptimal results in terms of garment warping and skin reservation under challenging try-on scenarios. To address these limitations, we propose a novel virtual try-on method via progressive inference paradigm (PGVTON) that leverages a top-down inference pipeline and a general garment try-on strategy. Specifically, we propose a robust try-on parsing inference method by disentangling semantic categories and introducing consistency. Exploiting the try-on parsing as the shape guidance, we implement the garment try-on via warping-mapping-composition. To facilitate adaptation to a wide range of try-on scenarios, we adopt a covering more and selecting one warping strategy and explicitly distinguish tasks based on alignment. Additionally, we regulate StyleGAN2 to implement re-naked skin inpainting, conditioned on the target skin shape and spatial-agnostic skin features. Experiments demonstrate that our method has state-of-the-art performance under two challenging scenarios. The code will be available at https://github.com/NerdFNY/PGVTON. 

**Title:** SurfelNeRF: Neural Surfel Radiance Fields for Online Photorealistic  Reconstruction of Indoor Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08971

**Abstract:** Online reconstructing and rendering of large-scale indoor scenes is a long-standing challenge. SLAM-based methods can reconstruct 3D scene geometry progressively in real time but can not render photorealistic results. While NeRF-based methods produce promising novel view synthesis results, their long offline optimization time and lack of geometric constraints pose challenges to efficiently handling online input. Inspired by the complementary advantages of classical 3D reconstruction and NeRF, we thus investigate marrying explicit geometric representation with NeRF rendering to achieve efficient online reconstruction and high-quality rendering. We introduce SurfelNeRF, a variant of neural radiance field which employs a flexible and scalable neural surfel representation to store geometric attributes and extracted appearance features from input images. We further extend the conventional surfel-based fusion scheme to progressively integrate incoming input frames into the reconstructed global neural scene representation. In addition, we propose a highly-efficient differentiable rasterization scheme for rendering neural surfel radiance fields, which helps SurfelNeRF achieve $10\times$ speedups in training and inference time, respectively. Experimental results show that our method achieves the state-of-the-art 23.82 PSNR and 29.58 PSNR on ScanNet in feedforward inference and per-scene optimization settings, respectively. 

**Title:** In ChatGPT We Trust? Measuring and Characterizing the Reliability of  ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08979

**Abstract:** The way users acquire information is undergoing a paradigm shift with the advent of ChatGPT. Unlike conventional search engines, ChatGPT retrieves knowledge from the model itself and generates answers for users. ChatGPT's impressive question-answering (QA) capability has attracted more than 100 million users within a short period of time but has also raised concerns regarding its reliability. In this paper, we perform the first large-scale measurement of ChatGPT's reliability in the generic QA scenario with a carefully curated set of 5,695 questions across ten datasets and eight domains. We find that ChatGPT's reliability varies across different domains, especially underperforming in law and science questions. We also demonstrate that system roles, originally designed by OpenAI to allow users to steer ChatGPT's behavior, can impact ChatGPT's reliability. We further show that ChatGPT is vulnerable to adversarial examples, and even a single character change can negatively affect its reliability in certain cases. We believe that our study provides valuable insights into ChatGPT's reliability and underscores the need for strengthening the reliability and security of large language models (LLMs). 

**Title:** An Augmented Subspace Based Adaptive Proper Orthogonal Decomposition  Method for Time Dependent Partial Differential Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09007

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose an augmented subspace based adaptive proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) method for solving the time dependent partial differential equations. By augmenting the POD subspace with some auxiliary modes, we obtain an augmented subspace. We use the difference between the approximation obtained in this augmented subspace and that obtained in the original POD subspace to construct an error indicator, by which we obtain a general framework for augmented subspace based adaptive POD method. We then provide two strategies to obtain some specific augmented subspaces, the random vector based augmented subspace and the coarse-grid approximations based augmented subspace. We apply our new method to two typical 3D advection-diffusion equations with the advection being the Kolmogorov flow and the ABC flow. Numerical results show that our method is more efficient than the existing adaptive POD methods, especially for the advection dominated models. 

**Title:** CF-VAE: Causal Disentangled Representation Learning with VAE and Causal  Flows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09010

**Abstract:** Learning disentangled representations is important in representation learning, aiming to learn a low dimensional representation of data where each dimension corresponds to one underlying generative factor. Due to the possibility of causal relationships between generative factors, causal disentangled representation learning has received widespread attention. In this paper, we first propose a new flows that can incorporate causal structure information into the model, called causal flows. Based on the variational autoencoders(VAE) commonly used in disentangled representation learning, we design a new model, CF-VAE, which enhances the disentanglement ability of the VAE encoder by utilizing the causal flows. By further introducing the supervision of ground-truth factors, we demonstrate the disentanglement identifiability of our model. Experimental results on both synthetic and real datasets show that CF-VAE can achieve causal disentanglement and perform intervention experiments. Moreover, CF-VAE exhibits outstanding performance on downstream tasks and has the potential to learn causal structure among factors. 

**Title:** Look ATME: The Discriminator Mean Entropy Needs Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09024

**Abstract:** Generative adversarial networks (GANs) are successfully used for image synthesis but are known to face instability during training. In contrast, probabilistic diffusion models (DMs) are stable and generate high-quality images, at the cost of an expensive sampling procedure. In this paper, we introduce a simple method to allow GANs to stably converge to their theoretical optimum, while bringing in the denoising machinery from DMs. These models are combined into a simpler model (ATME) that only requires a forward pass during inference, making predictions cheaper and more accurate than DMs and popular GANs. ATME breaks an information asymmetry existing in most GAN models in which the discriminator has spatial knowledge of where the generator is failing. To restore the information symmetry, the generator is endowed with knowledge of the entropic state of the discriminator, which is leveraged to allow the adversarial game to converge towards equilibrium. We demonstrate the power of our method in several image-to-image translation tasks, showing superior performance than state-of-the-art methods at a lesser cost. Code is available at https://github.com/DLR-MI/atme 

**Title:** LLM-based Interaction for Content Generation: A Case Study on the  Perception of Employees in an IT department  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09064

**Abstract:** In the past years, AI has seen many advances in the field of NLP. This has led to the emergence of LLMs, such as the now famous GPT-3.5, which revolutionise the way humans can access or generate content. Current studies on LLM-based generative tools are mainly interested in the performance of such tools in generating relevant content (code, text or image). However, ethical concerns related to the design and use of generative tools seem to be growing, impacting the public acceptability for specific tasks. This paper presents a questionnaire survey to identify the intention to use generative tools by employees of an IT company in the context of their work. This survey is based on empirical models measuring intention to use (TAM by Davis, 1989, and UTAUT2 by Venkatesh and al., 2008). Our results indicate a rather average acceptability of generative tools, although the more useful the tool is perceived to be, the higher the intention to use seems to be. Furthermore, our analyses suggest that the frequency of use of generative tools is likely to be a key factor in understanding how employees perceive these tools in the context of their work. Following on from this work, we plan to investigate the nature of the requests that may be made to these tools by specific audiences. 

**Title:** ChatGPT: Applications, Opportunities, and Threats  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09103

**Abstract:** Developed by OpenAI, ChatGPT (Conditional Generative Pre-trained Transformer) is an artificial intelligence technology that is fine-tuned using supervised machine learning and reinforcement learning techniques, allowing a computer to generate natural language conversation fully autonomously. ChatGPT is built on the transformer architecture and trained on millions of conversations from various sources. The system combines the power of pre-trained deep learning models with a programmability layer to provide a strong base for generating natural language conversations. In this study, after reviewing the existing literature, we examine the applications, opportunities, and threats of ChatGPT in 10 main domains, providing detailed examples for the business and industry as well as education. We also conducted an experimental study, checking the effectiveness and comparing the performances of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, and found that the latter performs significantly better. Despite its exceptional ability to generate natural-sounding responses, the authors believe that ChatGPT does not possess the same level of understanding, empathy, and creativity as a human and cannot fully replace them in most situations. 

**Title:** Variational Relational Point Completion Network for Robust 3D  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09131

**Abstract:** Real-scanned point clouds are often incomplete due to viewpoint, occlusion, and noise, which hampers 3D geometric modeling and perception. Existing point cloud completion methods tend to generate global shape skeletons and hence lack fine local details. Furthermore, they mostly learn a deterministic partial-to-complete mapping, but overlook structural relations in man-made objects. To tackle these challenges, this paper proposes a variational framework, Variational Relational point Completion Network (VRCNet) with two appealing properties: 1) Probabilistic Modeling. In particular, we propose a dual-path architecture to enable principled probabilistic modeling across partial and complete clouds. One path consumes complete point clouds for reconstruction by learning a point VAE. The other path generates complete shapes for partial point clouds, whose embedded distribution is guided by distribution obtained from the reconstruction path during training. 2) Relational Enhancement. Specifically, we carefully design point self-attention kernel and point selective kernel module to exploit relational point features, which refines local shape details conditioned on the coarse completion. In addition, we contribute multi-view partial point cloud datasets (MVP and MVP-40 dataset) containing over 200,000 high-quality scans, which render partial 3D shapes from 26 uniformly distributed camera poses for each 3D CAD model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that VRCNet outperforms state-of-the-art methods on all standard point cloud completion benchmarks. Notably, VRCNet shows great generalizability and robustness on real-world point cloud scans. Moreover, we can achieve robust 3D classification for partial point clouds with the help of VRCNet, which can highly increase classification accuracy. 

**Title:** Exploring the Trade-Offs: Unified Large Language Models vs Local  Fine-Tuned Models for Highly-Specific Radiology NLI Task  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09138

**Abstract:** Recently, ChatGPT and GPT-4 have emerged and gained immense global attention due to their unparalleled performance in language processing. Despite demonstrating impressive capability in various open-domain tasks, their adequacy in highly specific fields like radiology remains untested. Radiology presents unique linguistic phenomena distinct from open-domain data due to its specificity and complexity. Assessing the performance of large language models (LLMs) in such specific domains is crucial not only for a thorough evaluation of their overall performance but also for providing valuable insights into future model design directions: whether model design should be generic or domain-specific. To this end, in this study, we evaluate the performance of ChatGPT/GPT-4 on a radiology NLI task and compare it to other models fine-tuned specifically on task-related data samples. We also conduct a comprehensive investigation on ChatGPT/GPT-4's reasoning ability by introducing varying levels of inference difficulty. Our results show that 1) GPT-4 outperforms ChatGPT in the radiology NLI task; 2) other specifically fine-tuned models require significant amounts of data samples to achieve comparable performance to ChatGPT/GPT-4. These findings demonstrate that constructing a generic model that is capable of solving various tasks across different domains is feasible. 

**Title:** Outlier Suppression+: Accurate quantization of large language models by  equivalent and optimal shifting and scaling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09145

**Abstract:** Quantization of transformer language models faces significant challenges due to the existence of detrimental outliers in activations. We observe that these outliers are asymmetric and concentrated in specific channels. To address this issue, we propose the Outlier Suppression+ framework. First, we introduce channel-wise shifting and scaling operations to eliminate asymmetric presentation and scale down problematic channels. We demonstrate that these operations can be seamlessly migrated into subsequent modules while maintaining equivalence. Second, we quantitatively analyze the optimal values for shifting and scaling, taking into account both the asymmetric property and quantization errors of weights in the next layer. Our lightweight framework can incur minimal performance degradation under static and standard post-training quantization settings. Comprehensive results across various tasks and models reveal that our approach achieves near-floating-point performance on both small models, such as BERT, and large language models (LLMs) including OPTs, BLOOM, and BLOOMZ at 8-bit and 6-bit settings. Furthermore, we establish a new state of the art for 4-bit BERT. 

**Title:** Perspectives on Large Language Models for Relevance Judgment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09161

**Abstract:** When asked, current large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT claim that they can assist us with relevance judgments. Many researchers think this would not lead to credible IR research. In this perspective paper, we discuss possible ways for LLMs to assist human experts along with concerns and issues that arise. We devise a human-machine collaboration spectrum that allows categorizing different relevance judgment strategies, based on how much the human relies on the machine. For the extreme point of "fully automated assessment", we further include a pilot experiment on whether LLM-based relevance judgments correlate with judgments from trained human assessors. We conclude the paper by providing two opposing perspectives - for and against the use of LLMs for automatic relevance judgments - and a compromise perspective, informed by our analyses of the literature, our preliminary experimental evidence, and our experience as IR researchers. 

**Title:** Hyperbolic Image-Text Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09172

**Abstract:** Visual and linguistic concepts naturally organize themselves in a hierarchy, where a textual concept ``dog'' entails all images that contain dogs. Despite being intuitive, current large-scale vision and language models such as CLIP do not explicitly capture such hierarchy. We propose MERU, a contrastive model that yields hyperbolic representations of images and text. Hyperbolic spaces have suitable geometric properties to embed tree-like data, so MERU can better capture the underlying hierarchy in image-text data. Our results show that MERU learns a highly interpretable representation space while being competitive with CLIP's performance on multi-modal tasks like image classification and image-text retrieval. 

**Title:** Fibroglandular Tissue Segmentation in Breast MRI using Vision  Transformers -- A multi-institutional evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.08972

**Abstract:** Accurate and automatic segmentation of fibroglandular tissue in breast MRI screening is essential for the quantification of breast density and background parenchymal enhancement. In this retrospective study, we developed and evaluated a transformer-based neural network for breast segmentation (TraBS) in multi-institutional MRI data, and compared its performance to the well established convolutional neural network nnUNet. TraBS and nnUNet were trained and tested on 200 internal and 40 external breast MRI examinations using manual segmentations generated by experienced human readers. Segmentation performance was assessed in terms of the Dice score and the average symmetric surface distance. The Dice score for nnUNet was lower than for TraBS on the internal testset (0.909$\pm$0.069 versus 0.916$\pm$0.067, P<0.001) and on the external testset (0.824$\pm$0.144 versus 0.864$\pm$0.081, P=0.004). Moreover, the average symmetric surface distance was higher (=worse) for nnUNet than for TraBS on the internal (0.657$\pm$2.856 versus 0.548$\pm$2.195, P=0.001) and on the external testset (0.727$\pm$0.620 versus 0.584$\pm$0.413, P=0.03). Our study demonstrates that transformer-based networks improve the quality of fibroglandular tissue segmentation in breast MRI compared to convolutional-based models like nnUNet. These findings might help to enhance the accuracy of breast density and parenchymal enhancement quantification in breast MRI screening. 

**Title:** Performance of GAN-based augmentation for deep learning COVID-19 image  classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09067

**Abstract:** The biggest challenge in the application of deep learning to the medical domain is the availability of training data. Data augmentation is a typical methodology used in machine learning when confronted with a limited data set. In a classical approach image transformations i.e. rotations, cropping and brightness changes are used. In this work, a StyleGAN2-ADA model of Generative Adversarial Networks is trained on the limited COVID-19 chest X-ray image set. After assessing the quality of generated images they are used to increase the training data set improving its balance between classes. We consider the multi-class classification problem of chest X-ray images including the COVID-19 positive class that hasn't been yet thoroughly explored in the literature. Results of transfer learning-based classification of COVID-19 chest X-ray images are presented. The performance of several deep convolutional neural network models is compared. The impact on the detection performance of classical image augmentations i.e. rotations, cropping, and brightness changes are studied. Furthermore, classical image augmentation is compared with GAN-based augmentation. The most accurate model is an EfficientNet-B0 with an accuracy of 90.2 percent, trained on a dataset with a simple class balancing. The GAN augmentation approach is found to be subpar to classical methods for the considered dataset. 

**Title:** NaturalSpeech 2: Latent Diffusion Models are Natural and Zero-Shot  Speech and Singing Synthesizers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09116

**Abstract:** Scaling text-to-speech (TTS) to large-scale, multi-speaker, and in-the-wild datasets is important to capture the diversity in human speech such as speaker identities, prosodies, and styles (e.g., singing). Current large TTS systems usually quantize speech into discrete tokens and use language models to generate these tokens one by one, which suffer from unstable prosody, word skipping/repeating issue, and poor voice quality. In this paper, we develop NaturalSpeech 2, a TTS system that leverages a neural audio codec with residual vector quantizers to get the quantized latent vectors and uses a diffusion model to generate these latent vectors conditioned on text input. To enhance the zero-shot capability that is important to achieve diverse speech synthesis, we design a speech prompting mechanism to facilitate in-context learning in the diffusion model and the duration/pitch predictor. We scale NaturalSpeech 2 to large-scale datasets with 44K hours of speech and singing data and evaluate its voice quality on unseen speakers. NaturalSpeech 2 outperforms previous TTS systems by a large margin in terms of prosody/timbre similarity, robustness, and voice quality in a zero-shot setting, and performs novel zero-shot singing synthesis with only a speech prompt. Audio samples are available at https://speechresearch.github.io/naturalspeech2. 

**Title:** Monte-Carlo method for incompressible fluid flows past obstacles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09152

**Abstract:** We establish stochastic functional integral representations for incompressible fluid flows occupying wall-bounded domains using the conditional law duality for a class of diffusion processes. These representations are used to derive a Monte-Carlo scheme based on the corresponding exact random vortex formulation. We implement several numerical experiments based on the Monte-Carlo method without appealing to the boundary layer flow computations, to demonstrate the methodology. 

**Title:** Structure Preserving Cycle-GAN for Unsupervised Medical Image Domain  Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09164

**Abstract:** The presence of domain shift in medical imaging is a common issue, which can greatly impact the performance of segmentation models when dealing with unseen image domains. Adversarial-based deep learning models, such as Cycle-GAN, have become a common model for approaching unsupervised domain adaptation of medical images. These models however, have no ability to enforce the preservation of structures of interest when translating medical scans, which can lead to potentially poor results for unsupervised domain adaptation within the context of segmentation. This work introduces the Structure Preserving Cycle-GAN (SP Cycle-GAN), which promotes medical structure preservation during image translation through the enforcement of a segmentation loss term in the overall Cycle-GAN training process. We demonstrate the structure preserving capability of the SP Cycle-GAN both visually and through comparison of Dice score segmentation performance for the unsupervised domain adaptation models. The SP Cycle-GAN is able to outperform baseline approaches and standard Cycle-GAN domain adaptation for binary blood vessel segmentation in the STARE and DRIVE datasets, and multi-class Left Ventricle and Myocardium segmentation in the multi-modal MM-WHS dataset. SP Cycle-GAN achieved a state of the art Myocardium segmentation Dice score (DSC) of 0.7435 for the MR to CT MM-WHS domain adaptation problem, and excelled in nearly all categories for the MM-WHS dataset. SP Cycle-GAN also demonstrated a strong ability to preserve blood vessel structure in the DRIVE to STARE domain adaptation problem, achieving a 4% DSC increase over a default Cycle-GAN implementation. 

