**Title:** A structure-preserving upwind DG scheme for a degenerate phase-field  tumor model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09257

**Abstract:** In this work, we present a modification of the phase-field tumor growth model given in [26] that leads to bounded, more physically meaningful, volume fraction variables. In addition, we develop an upwind discontinuous Galerkin (DG) scheme preserving the mass conservation, pointwise bounds and energy stability of the continuous model. Finally, some computational tests in accordance with the theoretical results are introduced. In the first test, we compare our DG scheme with the finite element (FE) scheme related to the same time approximation. The DG scheme shows a well-behavior even for strong cross-diffusion effects in contrast with FE where numerical spurious oscillations appear. Moreover, the second test exhibits the behavior of the tumor-growth model under different choices of parameters and also of mobility and proliferation functions. 

**Title:** A Neural Lambda Calculus: Neurosymbolic AI meets the foundations of  computing and functional programming  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09276

**Abstract:** Over the last decades, deep neural networks based-models became the dominant paradigm in machine learning. Further, the use of artificial neural networks in symbolic learning has been seen as increasingly relevant recently. To study the capabilities of neural networks in the symbolic AI domain, researchers have explored the ability of deep neural networks to learn mathematical constructions, such as addition and multiplication, logic inference, such as theorem provers, and even the execution of computer programs. The latter is known to be too complex a task for neural networks. Therefore, the results were not always successful, and often required the introduction of biased elements in the learning process, in addition to restricting the scope of possible programs to be executed. In this work, we will analyze the ability of neural networks to learn how to execute programs as a whole. To do so, we propose a different approach. Instead of using an imperative programming language, with complex structures, we use the Lambda Calculus ({\lambda}-Calculus), a simple, but Turing-Complete mathematical formalism, which serves as the basis for modern functional programming languages and is at the heart of computability theory. We will introduce the use of integrated neural learning and lambda calculi formalization. Finally, we explore execution of a program in {\lambda}-Calculus is based on reductions, we will show that it is enough to learn how to perform these reductions so that we can execute any program. Keywords: Machine Learning, Lambda Calculus, Neurosymbolic AI, Neural Networks, Transformer Model, Sequence-to-Sequence Models, Computational Models 

**Title:** Pelphix: Surgical Phase Recognition from X-ray Images in Percutaneous  Pelvic Fixation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09285

**Abstract:** Surgical phase recognition (SPR) is a crucial element in the digital transformation of the modern operating theater. While SPR based on video sources is well-established, incorporation of interventional X-ray sequences has not yet been explored. This paper presents Pelphix, a first approach to SPR for X-ray-guided percutaneous pelvic fracture fixation, which models the procedure at four levels of granularity -- corridor, activity, view, and frame value -- simulating the pelvic fracture fixation workflow as a Markov process to provide fully annotated training data. Using added supervision from detection of bony corridors, tools, and anatomy, we learn image representations that are fed into a transformer model to regress surgical phases at the four granularity levels. Our approach demonstrates the feasibility of X-ray-based SPR, achieving an average accuracy of 93.8% on simulated sequences and 67.57% in cadaver across all granularity levels, with up to 88% accuracy for the target corridor in real data. This work constitutes the first step toward SPR for the X-ray domain, establishing an approach to categorizing phases in X-ray-guided surgery, simulating realistic image sequences to enable machine learning model development, and demonstrating that this approach is feasible for the analysis of real procedures. As X-ray-based SPR continues to mature, it will benefit procedures in orthopedic surgery, angiography, and interventional radiology by equipping intelligent surgical systems with situational awareness in the operating room. 

**Title:** AI-based Agents for Automated Robotic Endovascular Guidewire  Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09286

**Abstract:** Endovascular guidewire manipulation is essential for minimally-invasive clinical applications (Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI), Mechanical thrombectomy techniques for acute ischemic stroke (AIS), or Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS)). All procedures commonly require 3D vessel geometries from 3D CTA (Computed Tomography Angiography) images. During these procedures, the clinician generally places a guiding catheter in the ostium of the relevant vessel and then manipulates a wire through the catheter and across the blockage. The clinician only uses X-ray fluoroscopy intermittently to visualize and guide the catheter, guidewire, and other devices. However, clinicians still passively control guidewires/catheters by relying on limited indirect observation (i.e., 2D partial view of devices, and intermittent updates due to radiation limit) from X-ray fluoroscopy. Modeling and controlling the guidewire manipulation in coronary vessels remains challenging because of the complicated interaction between guidewire motions with different physical properties (i.e., loads, coating) and vessel geometries with lumen conditions resulting in a highly non-linear system. This paper introduces a scalable learning pipeline to train AI-based agent models toward automated endovascular predictive device controls. First, we create a scalable environment by pre-processing 3D CTA images, providing patient-specific 3D vessel geometry and the centerline of the coronary. Next, we apply a large quantity of randomly generated motion sequences from the proximal end to generate wire states associated with each environment using a physics-based device simulator. Then, we reformulate the control problem to a sequence-to-sequence learning problem, in which we use a Transformer-based model, trained to handle non-linear sequential forward/inverse transition functions. 

**Title:** BIM-GPT: a Prompt-Based Virtual Assistant Framework for BIM Information  Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09333

**Abstract:** Efficient information retrieval (IR) from building information models (BIMs) poses significant challenges due to the necessity for deep BIM knowledge or extensive engineering efforts for automation. We introduce BIM-GPT, a prompt-based virtual assistant (VA) framework integrating BIM and generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) technologies to support NL-based IR. A prompt manager and dynamic template generate prompts for GPT models, enabling interpretation of NL queries, summarization of retrieved information, and answering BIM-related questions. In tests on a BIM IR dataset, our approach achieved 83.5% and 99.5% accuracy rates for classifying NL queries with no data and 2% data incorporated in prompts, respectively. Additionally, we validated the functionality of BIM-GPT through a VA prototype for a hospital building. This research contributes to the development of effective and versatile VAs for BIM IR in the construction industry, significantly enhancing BIM accessibility and reducing engineering efforts and training data requirements for processing NL queries. 

**Title:** Shuffle & Divide: Contrastive Learning for Long Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09374

**Abstract:** We propose a self-supervised learning method for long text documents based on contrastive learning. A key to our method is Shuffle and Divide (SaD), a simple text augmentation algorithm that sets up a pretext task required for contrastive updates to BERT-based document embedding. SaD splits a document into two sub-documents containing randomly shuffled words in the entire documents. The sub-documents are considered positive examples, leaving all other documents in the corpus as negatives. After SaD, we repeat the contrastive update and clustering phases until convergence. It is naturally a time-consuming, cumbersome task to label text documents, and our method can help alleviate human efforts, which are most expensive resources in AI. We have empirically evaluated our method by performing unsupervised text classification on the 20 Newsgroups, Reuters-21578, BBC, and BBCSport datasets. In particular, our method pushes the current state-of-the-art, SS-SB-MT, on 20 Newsgroups by 20.94% in accuracy. We also achieve the state-of-the-art performance on Reuters-21578 and exceptionally-high accuracy performances (over 95%) for unsupervised classification on the BBC and BBCSport datasets. 

**Title:** Physical Knowledge Enhanced Deep Neural Network for Sea Surface  Temperature Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09376

**Abstract:** Traditionally, numerical models have been deployed in oceanography studies to simulate ocean dynamics by representing physical equations. However, many factors pertaining to ocean dynamics seem to be ill-defined. We argue that transferring physical knowledge from observed data could further improve the accuracy of numerical models when predicting Sea Surface Temperature (SST). Recently, the advances in earth observation technologies have yielded a monumental growth of data. Consequently, it is imperative to explore ways in which to improve and supplement numerical models utilizing the ever-increasing amounts of historical observational data. To this end, we introduce a method for SST prediction that transfers physical knowledge from historical observations to numerical models. Specifically, we use a combination of an encoder and a generative adversarial network (GAN) to capture physical knowledge from the observed data. The numerical model data is then fed into the pre-trained model to generate physics-enhanced data, which can then be used for SST prediction. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method considerably enhances SST prediction performance when compared to several state-of-the-art baselines. 

**Title:** SP-BatikGAN: An Efficient Generative Adversarial Network for Symmetric  Pattern Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09384

**Abstract:** Following the contention of AI arts, our research focuses on bringing AI for all, particularly for artists, to create AI arts with limited data and settings. We are interested in geometrically symmetric pattern generation, which appears on many artworks such as Portuguese, Moroccan tiles, and Batik, a cultural heritage in Southeast Asia. Symmetric pattern generation is a complex problem, with prior research creating too-specific models for certain patterns only. We provide publicly, the first-ever 1,216 high-quality symmetric patterns straight from design files for this task. We then formulate symmetric pattern enforcement (SPE) loss to leverage underlying symmetric-based structures that exist on current image distributions. Our SPE improves and accelerates training on any GAN configuration, and, with efficient attention, SP-BatikGAN compared to FastGAN, the state-of-the-art GAN for limited setting, improves the FID score from 110.11 to 90.76, an 18% decrease, and model diversity recall score from 0.047 to 0.204, a 334% increase. 

**Title:** Designing a realistic peer-like embodied conversational agent for  supporting children\textquotesingle s storytelling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09399

**Abstract:** Advances in artificial intelligence have facilitated the use of large language models (LLMs) and AI-generated synthetic media in education, which may inspire HCI researchers to develop technologies, in particular, embodied conversational agents (ECAs) to simulate the kind of scaffolding children might receive from a human partner. In this paper, we will propose a design prototype of a peer-like ECA named STARie that integrates multiple AI models - GPT-3, Speech Synthesis (Real-time Voice Cloning), VOCA (Voice Operated Character Animation), and FLAME (Faces Learned with an Articulated Model and Expressions) that aims to support narrative production in collaborative storytelling, specifically for children aged 4-8. However, designing a child-centered ECA raises concerns about age appropriateness, children\textquotesingle s privacy, gender choices of ECAs, and the uncanny valley effect. Thus, this paper will also discuss considerations and ethical concerns that must be taken into account when designing such an ECA. This proposal offers insights into the potential use of AI-generated synthetic media in child-centered AI design and how peer-like AI embodiment may support children\textquotesingle s storytelling. 

**Title:** How to Do Things with Deep Learning Code  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09406

**Abstract:** The premise of this article is that a basic understanding of the composition and functioning of large language models is critically urgent. To that end, we extract a representational map of OpenAI's GPT-2 with what we articulate as two classes of deep learning code, that which pertains to the model and that which underwrites applications built around the model. We then verify this map through case studies of two popular GPT-2 applications: the text adventure game, AI Dungeon, and the language art project, This Word Does Not Exist. Such an exercise allows us to test the potential of Critical Code Studies when the object of study is deep learning code and to demonstrate the validity of code as an analytical focus for researchers in the subfields of Critical Artificial Intelligence and Critical Machine Learning Studies. More broadly, however, our work draws attention to the means by which ordinary users might interact with, and even direct, the behavior of deep learning systems, and by extension works toward demystifying some of the auratic mystery of "AI." What is at stake is the possibility of achieving an informed sociotechnical consensus about the responsible applications of large language models, as well as a more expansive sense of their creative capabilities-indeed, understanding how and where engagement occurs allows all of us to become more active participants in the development of machine learning systems. 

**Title:** Pointerformer: Deep Reinforced Multi-Pointer Transformer for the  Traveling Salesman Problem  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09407

**Abstract:** Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), as a classic routing optimization problem originally arising in the domain of transportation and logistics, has become a critical task in broader domains, such as manufacturing and biology. Recently, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has been increasingly employed to solve TSP due to its high inference efficiency. Nevertheless, most of existing end-to-end DRL algorithms only perform well on small TSP instances and can hardly generalize to large scale because of the drastically soaring memory consumption and computation time along with the enlarging problem scale. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end DRL approach, referred to as Pointerformer, based on multi-pointer Transformer. Particularly, Pointerformer adopts both reversible residual network in the encoder and multi-pointer network in the decoder to effectively contain memory consumption of the encoder-decoder architecture. To further improve the performance of TSP solutions, Pointerformer employs both a feature augmentation method to explore the symmetries of TSP at both training and inference stages as well as an enhanced context embedding approach to include more comprehensive context information in the query. Extensive experiments on a randomly generated benchmark and a public benchmark have shown that, while achieving comparative results on most small-scale TSP instances as SOTA DRL approaches do, Pointerformer can also well generalize to large-scale TSPs. 

**Title:** TieFake: Title-Text Similarity and Emotion-Aware Fake News Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09421

**Abstract:** Fake news detection aims to detect fake news widely spreading on social media platforms, which can negatively influence the public and the government. Many approaches have been developed to exploit relevant information from news images, text, or videos. However, these methods may suffer from the following limitations: (1) ignore the inherent emotional information of the news, which could be beneficial since it contains the subjective intentions of the authors; (2) pay little attention to the relation (similarity) between the title and textual information in news articles, which often use irrelevant title to attract reader' attention. To this end, we propose a novel Title-Text similarity and emotion-aware Fake news detection (TieFake) method by jointly modeling the multi-modal context information and the author sentiment in a unified framework. Specifically, we respectively employ BERT and ResNeSt to learn the representations for text and images, and utilize publisher emotion extractor to capture the author's subjective emotion in the news content. We also propose a scale-dot product attention mechanism to capture the similarity between title features and textual features. Experiments are conducted on two publicly available multi-modal datasets, and the results demonstrate that our proposed method can significantly improve the performance of fake news detection. Our code is available at https://github.com/UESTC-GQJ/TieFake. 

**Title:** Boosting Semantic Segmentation with Semantic Boundaries  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09427

**Abstract:** In this paper, we present the Semantic Boundary Conditioned Backbone (SBCB) framework, a simple yet effective training framework that is model-agnostic and boosts segmentation performance, especially around the boundaries. Motivated by the recent development in improving semantic segmentation by incorporating boundaries as auxiliary tasks, we propose a multi-task framework that uses semantic boundary detection (SBD) as an auxiliary task. The SBCB framework utilizes the nature of the SBD task, which is complementary to semantic segmentation, to improve the backbone of the segmentation head. We apply an SBD head that exploits the multi-scale features from the backbone, where the model learns low-level features in the earlier stages, and high-level semantic understanding in the later stages. This head perfectly complements the common semantic segmentation architectures where the features from the later stages are used for classification. We can improve semantic segmentation models without additional parameters during inference by only conditioning the backbone. Through extensive evaluations, we show the effectiveness of the SBCB framework by improving various popular segmentation heads and backbones by 0.5% ~ 3.0% IoU on the Cityscapes dataset and gains 1.6% ~ 4.1% in boundary Fscores. We also apply this framework on customized backbones and the emerging vision transformer models and show the effectiveness of the SBCB framework. 

**Title:** HyperStyle3D: Text-Guided 3D Portrait Stylization via Hypernetworks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09463

**Abstract:** Portrait stylization is a long-standing task enabling extensive applications. Although 2D-based methods have made great progress in recent years, real-world applications such as metaverse and games often demand 3D content. On the other hand, the requirement of 3D data, which is costly to acquire, significantly impedes the development of 3D portrait stylization methods. In this paper, inspired by the success of 3D-aware GANs that bridge 2D and 3D domains with 3D fields as the intermediate representation for rendering 2D images, we propose a novel method, dubbed HyperStyle3D, based on 3D-aware GANs for 3D portrait stylization. At the core of our method is a hyper-network learned to manipulate the parameters of the generator in a single forward pass. It not only offers a strong capacity to handle multiple styles with a single model, but also enables flexible fine-grained stylization that affects only texture, shape, or local part of the portrait. While the use of 3D-aware GANs bypasses the requirement of 3D data, we further alleviate the necessity of style images with the CLIP model being the stylization guidance. We conduct an extensive set of experiments across the style, attribute, and shape, and meanwhile, measure the 3D consistency. These experiments demonstrate the superior capability of our HyperStyle3D model in rendering 3D-consistent images in diverse styles, deforming the face shape, and editing various attributes. 

**Title:** Towards Co-Creative Generative Adversarial Networks for Fashion  Designers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09477

**Abstract:** Originating from the premise that Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) enrich creative processes rather than diluting them, we describe an ongoing PhD project that proposes to study GANs in a co-creative context. By asking How can GANs be applied in co-creation, and in doing so, how can they contribute to fashion design processes? the project sets out to investigate co-creative GAN applications and further develop them for the specific application area of fashion design. We do so by drawing on the field of mixed-initiative co-creation. Combined with the technical insight into GANs' functioning, we aim to understand how their algorithmic properties translate into interactive interfaces for co-creation and propose new interactions. 

**Title:** DiFaReli : Diffusion Face Relighting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09479

**Abstract:** We present a novel approach to single-view face relighting in the wild. Handling non-diffuse effects, such as global illumination or cast shadows, has long been a challenge in face relighting. Prior work often assumes Lambertian surfaces, simplified lighting models or involves estimating 3D shape, albedo, or a shadow map. This estimation, however, is error-prone and requires many training examples with lighting ground truth to generalize well. Our work bypasses the need for accurate estimation of intrinsic components and can be trained solely on 2D images without any light stage data, multi-view images, or lighting ground truth. Our key idea is to leverage a conditional diffusion implicit model (DDIM) for decoding a disentangled light encoding along with other encodings related to 3D shape and facial identity inferred from off-the-shelf estimators. We also propose a novel conditioning technique that eases the modeling of the complex interaction between light and geometry by using a rendered shading reference to spatially modulate the DDIM. We achieve state-of-the-art performance on standard benchmark Multi-PIE and can photorealistically relight in-the-wild images. Please visit our page: https://diffusion-face-relighting.github.io 

**Title:** A GPT-Based Approach for Scientometric Analysis: Exploring the Landscape  of Artificial Intelligence Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09487

**Abstract:** This study presents a comprehensive approach that addresses the challenges of scientometric analysis in the rapidly evolving field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). By combining search terms related to AI with the advanced language processing capabilities of generative pre-trained transformers (GPT), we developed a highly accurate method for identifying and analyzing AI-related articles in the Web of Science (WoS) database. Our multi-step approach included filtering articles based on WoS citation topics, category, keyword screening, and GPT classification. We evaluated the effectiveness of our method through precision and recall calculations, finding that our combined approach captured around 94% of AI-related articles in the entire WoS corpus with a precision of 90%. Following this, we analyzed the publication volume trends, revealing a continuous growth pattern from 2013 to 2022 and an increasing degree of interdisciplinarity. We conducted citation analysis on the top countries and institutions and identified common research themes using keyword analysis and GPT. This study demonstrates the potential of our approach to facilitate accurate scientometric analysis, by providing insights into the growth, interdisciplinary nature, and key players in the field. 

**Title:** Learning Robust Visual-Semantic Embedding for Generalizable Person  Re-identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09498

**Abstract:** Generalizable person re-identification (Re-ID) is a very hot research topic in machine learning and computer vision, which plays a significant role in realistic scenarios due to its various applications in public security and video surveillance. However, previous methods mainly focus on the visual representation learning, while neglect to explore the potential of semantic features during training, which easily leads to poor generalization capability when adapted to the new domain. In this paper, we propose a Multi-Modal Equivalent Transformer called MMET for more robust visual-semantic embedding learning on visual, textual and visual-textual tasks respectively. To further enhance the robust feature learning in the context of transformer, a dynamic masking mechanism called Masked Multimodal Modeling strategy (MMM) is introduced to mask both the image patches and the text tokens, which can jointly works on multimodal or unimodal data and significantly boost the performance of generalizable person Re-ID. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate the competitive performance of our method over previous approaches. We hope this method could advance the research towards visual-semantic representation learning. Our source code is also publicly available at https://github.com/JeremyXSC/MMET. 

**Title:** Sampling is Matter: Point-guided 3D Human Mesh Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09502

**Abstract:** This paper presents a simple yet powerful method for 3D human mesh reconstruction from a single RGB image. Most recently, the non-local interactions of the whole mesh vertices have been effectively estimated in the transformer while the relationship between body parts also has begun to be handled via the graph model. Even though those approaches have shown the remarkable progress in 3D human mesh reconstruction, it is still difficult to directly infer the relationship between features, which are encoded from the 2D input image, and 3D coordinates of each vertex. To resolve this problem, we propose to design a simple feature sampling scheme. The key idea is to sample features in the embedded space by following the guide of points, which are estimated as projection results of 3D mesh vertices (i.e., ground truth). This helps the model to concentrate more on vertex-relevant features in the 2D space, thus leading to the reconstruction of the natural human pose. Furthermore, we apply progressive attention masking to precisely estimate local interactions between vertices even under severe occlusions. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that the proposed method efficiently improves the performance of 3D human mesh reconstruction. The code and model are publicly available at: https://github.com/DCVL-3D/PointHMR_release. 

**Title:** NetGPT: Generative Pretrained Transformer for Network Traffic  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09513

**Abstract:** Pretrained models for network traffic can utilize large-scale raw data to learn the essential characteristics of network traffic, and generate distinguishable results for input traffic without considering specific downstream tasks. Effective pretrained models can significantly optimize the training efficiency and effectiveness of downstream tasks, such as traffic classification, attack detection, resource scheduling, protocol analysis, and traffic generation. Despite the great success of pretraining in natural language processing, there is no work in the network field. Considering the diverse demands and characteristics of network traffic and network tasks, it is non-trivial to build a pretrained model for network traffic and we face various challenges, especially the heterogeneous headers and payloads in the multi-pattern network traffic and the different dependencies for contexts of diverse downstream network tasks. 

**Title:** Realistic Data Enrichment for Robust Image Segmentation in  Histopathology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09534

**Abstract:** Poor performance of quantitative analysis in histopathological Whole Slide Images (WSI) has been a significant obstacle in clinical practice. Annotating large-scale WSIs manually is a demanding and time-consuming task, unlikely to yield the expected results when used for fully supervised learning systems. Rarely observed disease patterns and large differences in object scales are difficult to model through conventional patient intake. Prior methods either fall back to direct disease classification, which only requires learning a few factors per image, or report on average image segmentation performance, which is highly biased towards majority observations. Geometric image augmentation is commonly used to improve robustness for average case predictions and to enrich limited datasets. So far no method provided sampling of a realistic posterior distribution to improve stability, e.g. for the segmentation of imbalanced objects within images. Therefore, we propose a new approach, based on diffusion models, which can enrich an imbalanced dataset with plausible examples from underrepresented groups by conditioning on segmentation maps. Our method can simply expand limited clinical datasets making them suitable to train machine learning pipelines, and provides an interpretable and human-controllable way of generating histopathology images that are indistinguishable from real ones to human experts. We validate our findings on two datasets, one from the public domain and one from a Kidney Transplant study. 

**Title:** Is ChatGPT Good at Search? Investigating Large Language Models as  Re-Ranking Agent  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09542

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated a remarkable ability to generalize zero-shot to various language-related tasks. This paper focuses on the study of exploring generative LLMs such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 for relevance ranking in Information Retrieval (IR). Surprisingly, our experiments reveal that properly instructed ChatGPT and GPT-4 can deliver competitive, even superior results than supervised methods on popular IR benchmarks. Notably, GPT-4 outperforms the fully fine-tuned monoT5-3B on MS MARCO by an average of 2.7 nDCG on TREC datasets, an average of 2.3 nDCG on eight BEIR datasets, and an average of 2.7 nDCG on ten low-resource languages Mr.TyDi. Subsequently, we delve into the potential for distilling the ranking capabilities of ChatGPT into a specialized model. Our small specialized model that trained on 10K ChatGPT generated data outperforms monoT5 trained on 400K annotated MS MARCO data on BEIR. The code to reproduce our results is available at www.github.com/sunnweiwei/RankGPT 

**Title:** SLIC: Self-Conditioned Adaptive Transform with Large-Scale Receptive  Fields for Learned Image Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09571

**Abstract:** Learned image compression has achieved remarkable performance. Transform, plays an important role in boosting the RD performance. Analysis transform converts the input image to a compact latent representation. The more compact the latent representation is, the fewer bits we need to compress it. When designing better transform, some previous works adopt Swin-Transformer. The success of the Swin-Transformer in image compression can be attributed to the dynamic weights and large receptive field.However,the LayerNorm adopted in transformers is not suitable for image compression.We find CNN-based modules can also be dynamic and have large receptive-fields. The CNN-based modules can also work with GDN/IGDN. To make the CNN-based modules dynamic, we generate the weights of kernels conditioned on the input feature. We scale up the size of each kernel for larger receptive fields. To reduce complexity, we make the CNN-module channel-wise connected. We call this module Dynamic Depth-wise convolution. We replace the self-attention module with the proposed Dynamic Depth-wise convolution, replace the embedding layer with a depth-wise residual bottleneck for non-linearity and replace the FFN layer with an inverted residual bottleneck for more interactions in the spatial domain. The interactions among channels of dynamic depth-wise convolution are limited. We design the other block, which replaces the dynamic depth-wise convolution with channel attention. We equip the proposed modules in the analysis and synthesis transform and receive a more compact latent representation and propose the learned image compression model SLIC, meaning Self-Conditioned Adaptive Transform with Large-Scale Receptive Fields for Learned Image Compression Learned Image Compression. Thanks to the proposed transform modules, our proposed SLIC achieves 6.35% BD-rate reduction over VVC when measured in PSNR on Kodak dataset. 

**Title:** Is ChatGPT Equipped with Emotional Dialogue Capabilities?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09582

**Abstract:** This report presents a study on the emotional dialogue capability of ChatGPT, an advanced language model developed by OpenAI. The study evaluates the performance of ChatGPT on emotional dialogue understanding and generation through a series of experiments on several downstream tasks. Our findings indicate that while ChatGPT's performance on emotional dialogue understanding may still lag behind that of supervised models, it exhibits promising results in generating emotional responses. Furthermore, the study suggests potential avenues for future research directions. 

**Title:** AdapterGNN: Efficient Delta Tuning Improves Generalization Ability in  Graph Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09595

**Abstract:** Fine-tuning pre-trained models has recently yielded remarkable performance gains in graph neural networks (GNNs). In addition to pre-training techniques, inspired by the latest work in the natural language fields, more recent work has shifted towards applying effective fine-tuning approaches, such as parameter-efficient tuning (delta tuning). However, given the substantial differences between GNNs and transformer-based models, applying such approaches directly to GNNs proved to be less effective. In this paper, we present a comprehensive comparison of delta tuning techniques for GNNs and propose a novel delta tuning method specifically designed for GNNs, called AdapterGNN. AdapterGNN preserves the knowledge of the large pre-trained model and leverages highly expressive adapters for GNNs, which can adapt to downstream tasks effectively with only a few parameters, while also improving the model's generalization ability on the downstream tasks. Extensive experiments show that AdapterGNN achieves higher evaluation performance (outperforming full fine-tuning by 1.4% and 5.5% in the chemistry and biology domains respectively, with only 5% of its parameters tuned) and lower generalization gaps compared to full fine-tuning. Moreover, we empirically show that a larger GNN model can have a worse generalization ability, which differs from the trend observed in large language models. We have also provided a theoretical justification for delta tuning can improve the generalization ability of GNNs by applying generalization bounds. 

**Title:** How Secure is Code Generated by ChatGPT?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09655

**Abstract:** In recent years, large language models have been responsible for great advances in the field of artificial intelligence (AI). ChatGPT in particular, an AI chatbot developed and recently released by OpenAI, has taken the field to the next level. The conversational model is able not only to process human-like text, but also to translate natural language into code. However, the safety of programs generated by ChatGPT should not be overlooked. In this paper, we perform an experiment to address this issue. Specifically, we ask ChatGPT to generate a number of program and evaluate the security of the resulting source code. We further investigate whether ChatGPT can be prodded to improve the security by appropriate prompts, and discuss the ethical aspects of using AI to generate code. Results suggest that ChatGPT is aware of potential vulnerabilities, but nonetheless often generates source code that are not robust to certain attacks. 

**Title:** GeneGPT: Teaching Large Language Models to Use NCBI Web APIs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09667

**Abstract:** In this paper, we present GeneGPT, a novel method for teaching large language models (LLMs) to use the Web Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and answer genomics questions. Specifically, we prompt Codex (code-davinci-002) to solve the GeneTuring tests with few-shot URL requests of NCBI API calls as demonstrations for in-context learning. During inference, we stop the decoding once a call request is detected and make the API call with the generated URL. We then append the raw execution results returned by NCBI APIs to the generated texts and continue the generation until the answer is found or another API call is detected. Our preliminary results show that GeneGPT achieves state-of-the-art results on three out of four one-shot tasks and four out of five zero-shot tasks in the GeneTuring dataset. Overall, GeneGPT achieves a macro-average score of 0.76, which is much higher than retrieval-augmented LLMs such as the New Bing (0.44), biomedical LLMs such as BioMedLM (0.08) and BioGPT (0.04), as well as other LLMs such as GPT-3 (0.16) and ChatGPT (0.12). 

**Title:** Reference-guided Controllable Inpainting of Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09677

**Abstract:** The popularity of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) for view synthesis has led to a desire for NeRF editing tools. Here, we focus on inpainting regions in a view-consistent and controllable manner. In addition to the typical NeRF inputs and masks delineating the unwanted region in each view, we require only a single inpainted view of the scene, i.e., a reference view. We use monocular depth estimators to back-project the inpainted view to the correct 3D positions. Then, via a novel rendering technique, a bilateral solver can construct view-dependent effects in non-reference views, making the inpainted region appear consistent from any view. For non-reference disoccluded regions, which cannot be supervised by the single reference view, we devise a method based on image inpainters to guide both the geometry and appearance. Our approach shows superior performance to NeRF inpainting baselines, with the additional advantage that a user can control the generated scene via a single inpainted image. Project page: https://ashmrz.github.io/reference-guided-3d 

**Title:** DarSwin: Distortion Aware Radial Swin Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09691

**Abstract:** Wide-angle lenses are commonly used in perception tasks requiring a large field of view. Unfortunately, these lenses produce significant distortions making conventional models that ignore the distortion effects unable to adapt to wide-angle images. In this paper, we present a novel transformer-based model that automatically adapts to the distortion produced by wide-angle lenses. We leverage the physical characteristics of such lenses, which are analytically defined by the radial distortion profile (assumed to be known), to develop a distortion aware radial swin transformer (DarSwin). In contrast to conventional transformer-based architectures, DarSwin comprises a radial patch partitioning, a distortion-based sampling technique for creating token embeddings, and a polar position encoding for radial patch merging. We validate our method on classification tasks using synthetically distorted ImageNet data and show through extensive experiments that DarSwin can perform zero-shot adaptation to unseen distortions of different wide-angle lenses. Compared to other baselines, DarSwin achieves the best results (in terms of Top-1 and -5 accuracy), when tested on in-distribution data, with almost 2% (6%) gain in Top-1 accuracy under medium (high) distortion levels, and comparable to the state-of-the-art under low and very low distortion levels (perspective-like images). 

**Title:** UniCal: a Single-Branch Transformer-Based Model for Camera-to-LiDAR  Calibration and Validation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09715

**Abstract:** We introduce a novel architecture, UniCal, for Camera-to-LiDAR (C2L) extrinsic calibration which leverages self-attention mechanisms through a Transformer-based backbone network to infer the 6-degree of freedom (DoF) relative transformation between the sensors. Unlike previous methods, UniCal performs an early fusion of the input camera and LiDAR data by aggregating camera image channels and LiDAR mappings into a multi-channel unified representation before extracting their features jointly with a single-branch architecture. This single-branch architecture makes UniCal lightweight, which is desirable in applications with restrained resources such as autonomous driving. Through experiments, we show that UniCal achieves state-of-the-art results compared to existing methods. We also show that through transfer learning, weights learned on the calibration task can be applied to a calibration validation task without re-training the backbone. 

**Title:** Reference-based Image Composition with Sketch via Structure-aware  Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09748

**Abstract:** Recent remarkable improvements in large-scale text-to-image generative models have shown promising results in generating high-fidelity images. To further enhance editability and enable fine-grained generation, we introduce a multi-input-conditioned image composition model that incorporates a sketch as a novel modal, alongside a reference image. Thanks to the edge-level controllability using sketches, our method enables a user to edit or complete an image sub-part with a desired structure (i.e., sketch) and content (i.e., reference image). Our framework fine-tunes a pre-trained diffusion model to complete missing regions using the reference image while maintaining sketch guidance. Albeit simple, this leads to wide opportunities to fulfill user needs for obtaining the in-demand images. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our proposed method offers unique use cases for image manipulation, enabling user-driven modifications of arbitrary scenes. 

**Title:** Attributing Image Generative Models using Latent Fingerprints  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09752

**Abstract:** Generative models have enabled the creation of contents that are indistinguishable from those taken from the nature. Open-source development of such models raised concerns about the risks in their misuse for malicious purposes. One potential risk mitigation strategy is to attribute generative models via fingerprinting. Current fingerprinting methods exhibit significant tradeoff between robust attribution accuracy and generation quality, and also lack designing principles to improve this tradeoff. This paper investigates the use of latent semantic dimensions as fingerprints, from where we can analyze the effects of design variables, including the choice of fingerprinting dimensions, strength, and capacity, on the accuracy-quality tradeoff. Compared with previous SOTA, our method requires minimum computation and is more applicable to large-scale models. We use StyleGAN2 and the latent diffusion model to demonstrate the efficacy of our method. 

**Title:** NeuralField-LDM: Scene Generation with Hierarchical Latent Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09787

**Abstract:** Automatically generating high-quality real world 3D scenes is of enormous interest for applications such as virtual reality and robotics simulation. Towards this goal, we introduce NeuralField-LDM, a generative model capable of synthesizing complex 3D environments. We leverage Latent Diffusion Models that have been successfully utilized for efficient high-quality 2D content creation. We first train a scene auto-encoder to express a set of image and pose pairs as a neural field, represented as density and feature voxel grids that can be projected to produce novel views of the scene. To further compress this representation, we train a latent-autoencoder that maps the voxel grids to a set of latent representations. A hierarchical diffusion model is then fit to the latents to complete the scene generation pipeline. We achieve a substantial improvement over existing state-of-the-art scene generation models. Additionally, we show how NeuralField-LDM can be used for a variety of 3D content creation applications, including conditional scene generation, scene inpainting and scene style manipulation. 

**Title:** AMT: All-Pairs Multi-Field Transforms for Efficient Frame Interpolation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09790

**Abstract:** We present All-Pairs Multi-Field Transforms (AMT), a new network architecture for video frame interpolation. It is based on two essential designs. First, we build bidirectional correlation volumes for all pairs of pixels, and use the predicted bilateral flows to retrieve correlations for updating both flows and the interpolated content feature. Second, we derive multiple groups of fine-grained flow fields from one pair of updated coarse flows for performing backward warping on the input frames separately. Combining these two designs enables us to generate promising task-oriented flows and reduce the difficulties in modeling large motions and handling occluded areas during frame interpolation. These qualities promote our model to achieve state-of-the-art performance on various benchmarks with high efficiency. Moreover, our convolution-based model competes favorably compared to Transformer-based models in terms of accuracy and efficiency. Our code is available at https://github.com/MCG-NKU/AMT. 

**Title:** Progressive-Hint Prompting Improves Reasoning in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09797

**Abstract:** The performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in reasoning tasks depends heavily on prompt design, with Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and self-consistency being critical methods that enhance this ability. However, these methods do not fully exploit the answers generated by the LLM to guide subsequent responses. This paper proposes a new prompting method, named Progressive-Hint Prompting (PHP), that enables automatic multiple interactions between users and LLMs by using previously generated answers as hints to progressively guide toward the correct answers. PHP is orthogonal to CoT and self-consistency, making it easy to combine with state-of-the-art techniques to further improve performance. We conducted an extensive and comprehensive evaluation to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Our experimental results on six benchmarks show that combining CoT and self-consistency with PHP significantly improves accuracy while remaining highly efficient. For instance, with text-davinci-003, we observed a 4.2% improvement on GSM8K with greedy decoding compared to Complex CoT, and a 46.17% reduction in sample paths with self-consistency. With GPT-4 and PHP, we achieve state-of-the-art performances on SVAMP (91.9%), GSM8K (95.5%) and AQuA (79.9%). 

**Title:** The Future of ChatGPT-enabled Labor Market: A Preliminary Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09823

**Abstract:** As a phenomenal large language model, ChatGPT has achieved unparalleled success in various real-world tasks and increasingly plays an important role in our daily lives and work. However, extensive concerns are also raised about the potential ethical issues, especially about whether ChatGPT-like artificial general intelligence (AGI) will replace human jobs. To this end, in this paper, we introduce a preliminary data-driven study on the future of ChatGPT-enabled labor market from the view of Human-AI Symbiosis instead of Human-AI Confrontation. To be specific, we first conduct an in-depth analysis of large-scale job posting data in BOSS Zhipin, the largest online recruitment platform in China. The results indicate that about 28% of occupations in the current labor market require ChatGPT-related skills. Furthermore, based on a large-scale occupation-centered knowledge graph, we develop a semantic information enhanced collaborative filtering algorithm to predict the future occupation-skill relations in the labor market. As a result, we find that a total of 45% occupations in the future will require ChatGPT-related skills. In particular, industries related to technology, product, and operations are expected to have higher proficiency requirements for ChatGPT-related skills, while the manufacturing, service, education, and health science related industries will have lower requirements for ChatGPT-related skills. 

**Title:** Chameleon: Plug-and-Play Compositional Reasoning with Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09842

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable progress in various natural language processing tasks with emergent abilities. However, they face inherent limitations, such as an inability to access up-to-date information, utilize external tools, or perform precise mathematical reasoning. In this paper, we introduce Chameleon, a plug-and-play compositional reasoning framework that augments LLMs to help address these challenges. Chameleon synthesizes programs to compose various tools, including LLM models, off-the-shelf vision models, web search engines, Python functions, and rule-based modules tailored to user interests. Built on top of an LLM as a natural language planner, Chameleon infers the appropriate sequence of tools to compose and execute in order to generate a final response. We showcase the adaptability and effectiveness of Chameleon on two tasks: ScienceQA and TabMWP. Notably, Chameleon with GPT-4 achieves an 86.54% accuracy on ScienceQA, significantly improving upon the best published few-shot model by 11.37%; using GPT-4 as the underlying LLM, Chameleon achieves a 17.8% increase over the state-of-the-art model, leading to a 98.78% overall accuracy on TabMWP. Further studies suggest that using GPT-4 as a planner exhibits more consistent and rational tool selection and is able to infer potential constraints given the instructions, compared to other LLMs like ChatGPT. 

**Title:** Transformer-Based Visual Segmentation: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09854

**Abstract:** Visual segmentation seeks to partition images, video frames, or point clouds into multiple segments or groups. This technique has numerous real-world applications, such as autonomous driving, image editing, robot sensing, and medical analysis. Over the past decade, deep learning-based methods have made remarkable strides in this area. Recently, transformers, a type of neural network based on self-attention originally designed for natural language processing, have considerably surpassed previous convolutional or recurrent approaches in various vision processing tasks. Specifically, vision transformers offer robust, unified, and even simpler solutions for various segmentation tasks. This survey provides a thorough overview of transformer-based visual segmentation, summarizing recent advancements. We first review the background, encompassing problem definitions, datasets, and prior convolutional methods. Next, we summarize a meta-architecture that unifies all recent transformer-based approaches. Based on this meta-architecture, we examine various method designs, including modifications to the meta-architecture and associated applications. We also present several closely related settings, including 3D point cloud segmentation, foundation model tuning, domain-aware segmentation, efficient segmentation, and medical segmentation. Additionally, we compile and re-evaluate the reviewed methods on several well-established datasets. Finally, we identify open challenges in this field and propose directions for future research. The project page can be found at https://github.com/lxtGH/Awesome-Segmenation-With-Transformer. We will also continually monitor developments in this rapidly evolving field. 

**Title:** LipsFormer: Introducing Lipschitz Continuity to Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09856

**Abstract:** We present a Lipschitz continuous Transformer, called LipsFormer, to pursue training stability both theoretically and empirically for Transformer-based models. In contrast to previous practical tricks that address training instability by learning rate warmup, layer normalization, attention formulation, and weight initialization, we show that Lipschitz continuity is a more essential property to ensure training stability. In LipsFormer, we replace unstable Transformer component modules with Lipschitz continuous counterparts: CenterNorm instead of LayerNorm, spectral initialization instead of Xavier initialization, scaled cosine similarity attention instead of dot-product attention, and weighted residual shortcut. We prove that these introduced modules are Lipschitz continuous and derive an upper bound on the Lipschitz constant of LipsFormer. Our experiments show that LipsFormer allows stable training of deep Transformer architectures without the need of careful learning rate tuning such as warmup, yielding a faster convergence and better generalization. As a result, on the ImageNet 1K dataset, LipsFormer-Swin-Tiny based on Swin Transformer training for 300 epochs can obtain 82.7\% without any learning rate warmup. Moreover, LipsFormer-CSwin-Tiny, based on CSwin, training for 300 epochs achieves a top-1 accuracy of 83.5\% with 4.7G FLOPs and 24M parameters. The code will be released at \url{https://github.com/IDEA-Research/LipsFormer}. 

**Title:** clotFoam: An Open-Source Framework to Simulate Blood Clot Formation  Under Flow  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09180

**Abstract:** Blood clotting involves the coupled processes of platelet aggregation and coagulation. Simulating clotting under flow in complex geometries is challenging due to multiple temporal and spatial scales and high computational cost. clotFoam is an open-source software developed in OpenFOAM that employs a continuum model of platelet advection, diffusion, and aggregation in a dynamic fluid environment and a simplified coagulation model with proteins that advect, diffuse, and react within the fluid and with wall-bound species through reactive boundary conditions. Our framework provides the foundation on which one can build more complex models and perform reliable simulations in almost any computational domain. 

**Title:** Coded Speech Quality Measurement by a Non-Intrusive PESQ-DNN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09226

**Abstract:** Wideband codecs such as AMR-WB or EVS are widely used in (mobile) speech communication. Evaluation of coded speech quality is often performed subjectively by an absolute category rating (ACR) listening test. However, the ACR test is impractical for online monitoring of speech communication networks. Perceptual evaluation of speech quality (PESQ) is one of the widely used metrics instrumentally predicting the results of an ACR test. However, the PESQ algorithm requires an original reference signal, which is usually unavailable in network monitoring, thus limiting its applicability. NISQA is a new non-intrusive neural-network-based speech quality measure, focusing on super-wideband speech signals. In this work, however, we aim at predicting the well-known PESQ metric using a non-intrusive PESQ-DNN model. We illustrate the potential of this model by predicting the PESQ scores of wideband-coded speech obtained from AMR-WB or EVS codecs operating at different bitrates in noisy, tandeming, and error-prone transmission conditions. We compare our methods with the state-of-the-art network topologies of QualityNet, WaweNet, and DNSMOS -- all applied to PESQ prediction -- by measuring the mean absolute error (MAE) and the linear correlation coefficient (LCC). The proposed PESQ-DNN offers the best total MAE and LCC of 0.11 and 0.92, respectively, in conditions without frame loss, and still is best when including frame loss. Note that our model could be similarly used to non-intrusively predict POLQA or other (intrusive) metrics. Upon article acceptance, code will be provided at GitHub. 

**Title:** The Unintended Consequences of Censoring Digital Technology -- Evidence  from Italy's ChatGPT Ban  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09339

**Abstract:** We analyse the effects of the ban of ChatGPT, a generative pre-trained transformer chatbot, on individual productivity. We first compile data on the hourly coding output of over 8,000 professional GitHub users in Italy and other European countries to analyse the impact of the ban on individual productivity. Combining the high-frequency data with the sudden announcement of the ban in a difference-in-differences framework, we find that the output of Italian developers decreased by around 50% in the first two business days after the ban and recovered after that. Applying a synthetic control approach to daily Google search and Tor usage data shows that the ban led to a significant increase in the use of censorship bypassing tools. Our findings show that users swiftly implement strategies to bypass Internet restrictions but this adaptation activity creates short-term disruptions and hampers productivity. 

**Title:** Denoising Diffusion Medical Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09383

**Abstract:** In this study, we introduce a generative model that can synthesize a large number of radiographical image/label pairs, and thus is asymptotically favorable to downstream activities such as segmentation in bio-medical image analysis. Denoising Diffusion Medical Model (DDMM), the proposed technique, can create realistic X-ray images and associated segmentations on a small number of annotated datasets as well as other massive unlabeled datasets with no supervision. Radiograph/segmentation pairs are generated jointly by the DDMM sampling process in probabilistic mode. As a result, a vanilla UNet that uses this data augmentation for segmentation task outperforms other similarly data-centric approaches. 

**Title:** DCELANM-Net:Medical Image Segmentation based on Dual Channel Efficient  Layer Aggregation Network with Learner  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09620

**Abstract:** The DCELANM-Net structure, which this article offers, is a model that ingeniously combines a Dual Channel Efficient Layer Aggregation Network (DCELAN) and a Micro Masked Autoencoder (Micro-MAE). On the one hand, for the DCELAN, the features are more effectively fitted by deepening the network structure; the deeper network can successfully learn and fuse the features, which can more accurately locate the local feature information; and the utilization of each layer of channels is more effectively improved by widening the network structure and residual connections. We adopted Micro-MAE as the learner of the model. In addition to being straightforward in its methodology, it also offers a self-supervised learning method, which has the benefit of being incredibly scaleable for the model. 

**Title:** Cross-Reference Transformer for Few-shot Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09630

**Abstract:** Due to the contradiction of medical image processing, that is, the application of medical images is more and more widely and the limitation of medical images is difficult to label, few-shot learning technology has begun to receive more attention in the field of medical image processing. This paper proposes a Cross-Reference Transformer for medical image segmentation, which addresses the lack of interaction between the existing Cross-Reference support image and the query image. It can better mine and enhance the similar parts of support features and query features in high-dimensional channels. Experimental results show that the proposed model achieves good results on both CT dataset and MRI dataset. 

