**Title:** Supporting Qualitative Analysis with Large Language Models: Combining  Codebook with GPT-3 for Deductive Coding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10548

**Abstract:** Qualitative analysis of textual contents unpacks rich and valuable information by assigning labels to the data. However, this process is often labor-intensive, particularly when working with large datasets. While recent AI-based tools demonstrate utility, researchers may not have readily available AI resources and expertise, let alone be challenged by the limited generalizability of those task-specific models. In this study, we explored the use of large language models (LLMs) in supporting deductive coding, a major category of qualitative analysis where researchers use pre-determined codebooks to label the data into a fixed set of codes. Instead of training task-specific models, a pre-trained LLM could be used directly for various tasks without fine-tuning through prompt learning. Using a curiosity-driven questions coding task as a case study, we found, by combining GPT-3 with expert-drafted codebooks, our proposed approach achieved fair to substantial agreements with expert-coded results. We lay out challenges and opportunities in using LLMs to support qualitative coding and beyond. 

**Title:** An Introduction to Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10557

**Abstract:** The transformer is a neural network component that can be used to learn useful representations of sequences or sets of datapoints. The transformer has driven recent advances in natural language processing, computer vision, and spatio-temporal modelling. There are many introductions to transformers, but most do not contain precise mathematical descriptions of the architecture and the intuitions behind the design choices are often also missing. Moreover, as research takes a winding path, the explanations for the components of the transformer can be idiosyncratic. In this note we aim for a mathematically precise, intuitive, and clean description of the transformer architecture. 

**Title:** IDQL: Implicit Q-Learning as an Actor-Critic Method with Diffusion  Policies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10573

**Abstract:** Effective offline RL methods require properly handling out-of-distribution actions. Implicit Q-learning (IQL) addresses this by training a Q-function using only dataset actions through a modified Bellman backup. However, it is unclear which policy actually attains the values represented by this implicitly trained Q-function. In this paper, we reinterpret IQL as an actor-critic method by generalizing the critic objective and connecting it to a behavior-regularized implicit actor. This generalization shows how the induced actor balances reward maximization and divergence from the behavior policy, with the specific loss choice determining the nature of this tradeoff. Notably, this actor can exhibit complex and multimodal characteristics, suggesting issues with the conditional Gaussian actor fit with advantage weighted regression (AWR) used in prior methods. Instead, we propose using samples from a diffusion parameterized behavior policy and weights computed from the critic to then importance sampled our intended policy. We introduce Implicit Diffusion Q-learning (IDQL), combining our general IQL critic with the policy extraction method. IDQL maintains the ease of implementation of IQL while outperforming prior offline RL methods and demonstrating robustness to hyperparameters. Code is available at https://github.com/philippe-eecs/IDQL. 

**Title:** MiniGPT-4: Enhancing Vision-Language Understanding with Advanced Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10592

**Abstract:** The recent GPT-4 has demonstrated extraordinary multi-modal abilities, such as directly generating websites from handwritten text and identifying humorous elements within images. These features are rarely observed in previous vision-language models. We believe the primary reason for GPT-4's advanced multi-modal generation capabilities lies in the utilization of a more advanced large language model (LLM). To examine this phenomenon, we present MiniGPT-4, which aligns a frozen visual encoder with a frozen LLM, Vicuna, using just one projection layer. Our findings reveal that MiniGPT-4 possesses many capabilities similar to those exhibited by GPT-4 like detailed image description generation and website creation from hand-written drafts. Furthermore, we also observe other emerging capabilities in MiniGPT-4, including writing stories and poems inspired by given images, providing solutions to problems shown in images, teaching users how to cook based on food photos, etc. In our experiment, we found that only performing the pretraining on raw image-text pairs could produce unnatural language outputs that lack coherency including repetition and fragmented sentences. To address this problem, we curate a high-quality, well-aligned dataset in the second stage to finetune our model using a conversational template. This step proved crucial for augmenting the model's generation reliability and overall usability. Notably, our model is highly computationally efficient, as we only train a projection layer utilizing approximately 5 million aligned image-text pairs. Our code, pre-trained model, and collected dataset are available at https://minigpt-4.github.io/. 

**Title:** Text2Seg: Remote Sensing Image Semantic Segmentation via Text-Guided  Visual Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10597

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in foundation models (FMs), such as GPT-4 and LLaMA, have attracted significant attention due to their exceptional performance in zero-shot learning scenarios. Similarly, in the field of visual learning, models like Grounding DINO and the Segment Anything Model (SAM) have exhibited remarkable progress in open-set detection and instance segmentation tasks. It is undeniable that these FMs will profoundly impact a wide range of real-world visual learning tasks, ushering in a new paradigm shift for developing such models. In this study, we concentrate on the remote sensing domain, where the images are notably dissimilar from those in conventional scenarios. We developed a pipeline that leverages multiple FMs to facilitate remote sensing image semantic segmentation tasks guided by text prompt, which we denote as Text2Seg. The pipeline is benchmarked on several widely-used remote sensing datasets, and we present preliminary results to demonstrate its effectiveness. Through this work, we aim to provide insights into maximizing the applicability of visual FMs in specific contexts with minimal model tuning. The code is available at https://github.com/Douglas2Code/Text2Seg. 

**Title:** "HOT" ChatGPT: The promise of ChatGPT in detecting and discriminating  hateful, offensive, and toxic comments on social media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10619

**Abstract:** Harmful content is pervasive on social media, poisoning online communities and negatively impacting participation. A common approach to address this issue is to develop detection models that rely on human annotations. However, the tasks required to build such models expose annotators to harmful and offensive content and may require significant time and cost to complete. Generative AI models have the potential to understand and detect harmful content. To investigate this potential, we used ChatGPT and compared its performance with MTurker annotations for three frequently discussed concepts related to harmful content: Hateful, Offensive, and Toxic (HOT). We designed five prompts to interact with ChatGPT and conducted four experiments eliciting HOT classifications. Our results show that ChatGPT can achieve an accuracy of approximately 80% when compared to MTurker annotations. Specifically, the model displays a more consistent classification for non-HOT comments than HOT comments compared to human annotations. Our findings also suggest that ChatGPT classifications align with provided HOT definitions, but ChatGPT classifies "hateful" and "offensive" as subsets of "toxic." Moreover, the choice of prompts used to interact with ChatGPT impacts its performance. Based on these in-sights, our study provides several meaningful implications for employing ChatGPT to detect HOT content, particularly regarding the reliability and consistency of its performance, its understand-ing and reasoning of the HOT concept, and the impact of prompts on its performance. Overall, our study provides guidance about the potential of using generative AI models to moderate large volumes of user-generated content on social media. 

**Title:** HM-ViT: Hetero-modal Vehicle-to-Vehicle Cooperative perception with  vision transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10628

**Abstract:** Vehicle-to-Vehicle technologies have enabled autonomous vehicles to share information to see through occlusions, greatly enhancing perception performance. Nevertheless, existing works all focused on homogeneous traffic where vehicles are equipped with the same type of sensors, which significantly hampers the scale of collaboration and benefit of cross-modality interactions. In this paper, we investigate the multi-agent hetero-modal cooperative perception problem where agents may have distinct sensor modalities. We present HM-ViT, the first unified multi-agent hetero-modal cooperative perception framework that can collaboratively predict 3D objects for highly dynamic vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) collaborations with varying numbers and types of agents. To effectively fuse features from multi-view images and LiDAR point clouds, we design a novel heterogeneous 3D graph transformer to jointly reason inter-agent and intra-agent interactions. The extensive experiments on the V2V perception dataset OPV2V demonstrate that the HM-ViT outperforms SOTA cooperative perception methods for V2V hetero-modal cooperative perception. We will release codes to facilitate future research. 

**Title:** Word Sense Induction with Knowledge Distillation from BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10642

**Abstract:** Pre-trained contextual language models are ubiquitously employed for language understanding tasks, but are unsuitable for resource-constrained systems. Noncontextual word embeddings are an efficient alternative in these settings. Such methods typically use one vector to encode multiple different meanings of a word, and incur errors due to polysemy. This paper proposes a two-stage method to distill multiple word senses from a pre-trained language model (BERT) by using attention over the senses of a word in a context and transferring this sense information to fit multi-sense embeddings in a skip-gram-like framework. We demonstrate an effective approach to training the sense disambiguation mechanism in our model with a distribution over word senses extracted from the output layer embeddings of BERT. Experiments on the contextual word similarity and sense induction tasks show that this method is superior to or competitive with state-of-the-art multi-sense embeddings on multiple benchmark data sets, and experiments with an embedding-based topic model (ETM) demonstrates the benefits of using this multi-sense embedding in a downstream application. 

**Title:** Meta Semantics: Towards better natural language understanding and  reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10663

**Abstract:** Natural language understanding is one of the most challenging topics in artificial intelligence. Deep neural network methods, particularly large language module (LLM) methods such as ChatGPT and GPT-3, have powerful flexibility to adopt informal text but are weak on logical deduction and suffer from the out-of-vocabulary (OOV) problem. On the other hand, rule-based methods such as Mathematica, Semantic web, and Lean, are excellent in reasoning but cannot handle the complex and changeable informal text. Inspired by pragmatics and structuralism, we propose two strategies to solve the OOV problem and a semantic model for better natural language understanding and reasoning. 

**Title:** A Comparative Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) 3D Analysis of Camera Poses  from HoloLens Trajectories and Structure from Motion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10664

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are trained using a set of camera poses and associated images as input to estimate density and color values for each position. The position-dependent density learning is of particular interest for photogrammetry, enabling 3D reconstruction by querying and filtering the NeRF coordinate system based on the object density. While traditional methods like Structure from Motion are commonly used for camera pose calculation in pre-processing for NeRFs, the HoloLens offers an interesting interface for extracting the required input data directly. We present a workflow for high-resolution 3D reconstructions almost directly from HoloLens data using NeRFs. Thereby, different investigations are considered: Internal camera poses from the HoloLens trajectory via a server application, and external camera poses from Structure from Motion, both with an enhanced variant applied through pose refinement. Results show that the internal camera poses lead to NeRF convergence with a PSNR of 25\,dB with a simple rotation around the x-axis and enable a 3D reconstruction. Pose refinement enables comparable quality compared to external camera poses, resulting in improved training process with a PSNR of 27\,dB and a better 3D reconstruction. Overall, NeRF reconstructions outperform the conventional photogrammetric dense reconstruction using Multi-View Stereo in terms of completeness and level of detail. 

**Title:** Long-Term Photometric Consistent Novel View Synthesis with Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10700

**Abstract:** Novel view synthesis from a single input image is a challenging task, where the goal is to generate a new view of a scene from a desired camera pose that may be separated by a large motion. The highly uncertain nature of this synthesis task due to unobserved elements within the scene (i.e., occlusion) and outside the field-of-view makes the use of generative models appealing to capture the variety of possible outputs. In this paper, we propose a novel generative model which is capable of producing a sequence of photorealistic images consistent with a specified camera trajectory, and a single starting image. Our approach is centred on an autoregressive conditional diffusion-based model capable of interpolating visible scene elements, and extrapolating unobserved regions in a view, in a geometrically consistent manner. Conditioning is limited to an image capturing a single camera view and the (relative) pose of the new camera view. To measure the consistency over a sequence of generated views, we introduce a new metric, the thresholded symmetric epipolar distance (TSED), to measure the number of consistent frame pairs in a sequence. While previous methods have been shown to produce high quality images and consistent semantics across pairs of views, we show empirically with our metric that they are often inconsistent with the desired camera poses. In contrast, we demonstrate that our method produces both photorealistic and view-consistent imagery. 

**Title:** Matching-based Data Valuation for Generative Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10701

**Abstract:** Data valuation is critical in machine learning, as it helps enhance model transparency and protect data properties. Existing data valuation methods have primarily focused on discriminative models, neglecting deep generative models that have recently gained considerable attention. Similar to discriminative models, there is an urgent need to assess data contributions in deep generative models as well. However, previous data valuation approaches mainly relied on discriminative model performance metrics and required model retraining. Consequently, they cannot be applied directly and efficiently to recent deep generative models, such as generative adversarial networks and diffusion models, in practice. To bridge this gap, we formulate the data valuation problem in generative models from a similarity-matching perspective. Specifically, we introduce Generative Model Valuator (GMValuator), the first model-agnostic approach for any generative models, designed to provide data valuation for generation tasks. We have conducted extensive experiments to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. To the best of their knowledge, GMValuator is the first work that offers a training-free, post-hoc data valuation strategy for deep generative models. 

**Title:** The Ethics of AI-Generated Maps: A Study of DALLE 2 and Implications for  Cartography  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10743

**Abstract:** The rapid advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) such as the emergence of large language models including ChatGPT and DALLE 2 has brought both opportunities for improving productivity and raised ethical concerns. This paper investigates the ethics of using artificial intelligence (AI) in cartography, with a particular focus on the generation of maps using DALLE 2. To accomplish this, we first create an open-sourced dataset that includes synthetic (AI-generated) and real-world (human-designed) maps at multiple scales with a variety settings. We subsequently examine four potential ethical concerns that may arise from the characteristics of DALLE 2 generated maps, namely inaccuracies, misleading information, unanticipated features, and reproducibility. We then develop a deep learning-based ethical examination system that identifies those AI-generated maps. Our research emphasizes the importance of ethical considerations in the development and use of AI techniques in cartography, contributing to the growing body of work on trustworthy maps. We aim to raise public awareness of the potential risks associated with AI-generated maps and support the development of ethical guidelines for their future use. 

**Title:** Enhancing Wind Power Forecast Precision via Multi-head Attention  Transformer: An Investigation on Single-step and Multi-step Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10758

**Abstract:** The main objective of this study is to propose an enhanced wind power forecasting (EWPF) transformer model for handling power grid operations and boosting power market competition. It helps reliable large-scale integration of wind power relies in large part on accurate wind power forecasting (WPF). The proposed model is evaluated for single-step and multi-step WPF, and compared with gated recurrent unit (GRU) and long short-term memory (LSTM) models on a wind power dataset. The results of the study indicate that the proposed EWPF transformer model outperforms conventional recurrent neural network (RNN) models in terms of time-series forecasting accuracy. In particular, the results reveal a minimum performance improvement of 5% and a maximum of 20% compared to LSTM and GRU. These results indicate that the EWPF transformer model provides a promising alternative for wind power forecasting and has the potential to significantly improve the precision of WPF. The findings of this study have implications for energy producers and researchers in the field of WPF. 

**Title:** How good are variational autoencoders at transfer learning?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10767

**Abstract:** Variational autoencoders (VAEs) are used for transfer learning across various research domains such as music generation or medical image analysis. However, there is no principled way to assess before transfer which components to retrain or whether transfer learning is likely to help on a target task. We propose to explore this question through the lens of representational similarity. Specifically, using Centred Kernel Alignment (CKA) to evaluate the similarity of VAEs trained on different datasets, we show that encoders' representations are generic but decoders' specific. Based on these insights, we discuss the implications for selecting which components of a VAE to retrain and propose a method to visually assess whether transfer learning is likely to help on classification tasks. 

**Title:** Evaluating the Code Quality of AI-Assisted Code Generation Tools: An  Empirical Study on GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10778

**Abstract:** Context: AI-assisted code generation tools have become increasingly prevalent in software engineering, offering the ability to generate code from natural language prompts or partial code inputs. Notable examples of these tools include GitHub Copilot, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and OpenAI's ChatGPT. 

**Title:** Omni-Line-of-Sight Imaging for Holistic Shape Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10780

**Abstract:** We introduce Omni-LOS, a neural computational imaging method for conducting holistic shape reconstruction (HSR) of complex objects utilizing a Single-Photon Avalanche Diode (SPAD)-based time-of-flight sensor. As illustrated in Fig. 1, our method enables new capabilities to reconstruct near-$360^\circ$ surrounding geometry of an object from a single scan spot. In such a scenario, traditional line-of-sight (LOS) imaging methods only see the front part of the object and typically fail to recover the occluded back regions. Inspired by recent advances of non-line-of-sight (NLOS) imaging techniques which have demonstrated great power to reconstruct occluded objects, Omni-LOS marries LOS and NLOS together, leveraging their complementary advantages to jointly recover the holistic shape of the object from a single scan position. The core of our method is to put the object nearby diffuse walls and augment the LOS scan in the front view with the NLOS scans from the surrounding walls, which serve as virtual ``mirrors'' to trap lights toward the object. Instead of separately recovering the LOS and NLOS signals, we adopt an implicit neural network to represent the object, analogous to NeRF and NeTF. While transients are measured along straight rays in LOS but over the spherical wavefronts in NLOS, we derive differentiable ray propagation models to simultaneously model both types of transient measurements so that the NLOS reconstruction also takes into account the direct LOS measurements and vice versa. We further develop a proof-of-concept Omni-LOS hardware prototype for real-world validation. Comprehensive experiments on various wall settings demonstrate that Omni-LOS successfully resolves shape ambiguities caused by occlusions, achieves high-fidelity 3D scan quality, and manages to recover objects of various scales and complexity. 

**Title:** Contrastive Language, Action, and State Pre-training for Robot Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10782

**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce a method for unifying language, action, and state information in a shared embedding space to facilitate a range of downstream tasks in robot learning. Our method, Contrastive Language, Action, and State Pre-training (CLASP), extends the CLIP formulation by incorporating distributional learning, capturing the inherent complexities and one-to-many relationships in behaviour-text alignment. By employing distributional outputs for both text and behaviour encoders, our model effectively associates diverse textual commands with a single behaviour and vice-versa. We demonstrate the utility of our method for the following downstream tasks: zero-shot text-behaviour retrieval, captioning unseen robot behaviours, and learning a behaviour prior for language-conditioned reinforcement learning. Our distributional encoders exhibit superior retrieval and captioning performance on unseen datasets, and the ability to generate meaningful exploratory behaviours from textual commands, capturing the intricate relationships between language, action, and state. This work represents an initial step towards developing a unified pre-trained model for robotics, with the potential to generalise to a broad range of downstream tasks. 

**Title:** DeformableFormer: Classification of Endoscopic Ultrasound Guided Fine  Needle Biopsy in Pancreatic Diseases  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10791

**Abstract:** Endoscopic Ultrasound-Fine Needle Aspiration (EUS-FNA) is used to examine pancreatic cancer. EUS-FNA is an examination using EUS to insert a thin needle into the tumor and collect pancreatic tissue fragments. Then collected pancreatic tissue fragments are then stained to classify whether they are pancreatic cancer. However, staining and visual inspection are time consuming. In addition, if the pancreatic tissue fragment cannot be examined after staining, the collection must be done again on the other day. Therefore, our purpose is to classify from an unstained image whether it is available for examination or not, and to exceed the accuracy of visual classification by specialist physicians. Image classification before staining can reduce the time required for staining and the burden of patients. However, the images of pancreatic tissue fragments used in this study cannot be successfully classified by processing the entire image because the pancreatic tissue fragments are only a part of the image. Therefore, we propose a DeformableFormer that uses Deformable Convolution in MetaFormer framework. The architecture consists of a generalized model of the Vision Transformer, and we use Deformable Convolution in the TokenMixer part. In contrast to existing approaches, our proposed DeformableFormer is possible to perform feature extraction more locally and dynamically by Deformable Convolution. Therefore, it is possible to perform suitable feature extraction for classifying target. To evaluate our method, we classify two categories of pancreatic tissue fragments; available and unavailable for examination. We demonstrated that our method outperformed the accuracy by specialist physicians and conventional methods. 

**Title:** RPLKG: Robust Prompt Learning with Knowledge Graph  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10805

**Abstract:** Large-scale pre-trained models have been known that they are transferable, and they generalize well on the unseen dataset. Recently, multimodal pre-trained models such as CLIP show significant performance improvement in diverse experiments. However, when the labeled dataset is limited, the generalization of a new dataset or domain is still challenging. To improve the generalization performance on few-shot learning, there have been diverse efforts, such as prompt learning and adapter. However, the current few-shot adaptation methods are not interpretable, and they require a high computation cost for adaptation. In this study, we propose a new method, robust prompt learning with knowledge graph (RPLKG). Based on the knowledge graph, we automatically design diverse interpretable and meaningful prompt sets. Our model obtains cached embeddings of prompt sets after one forwarding from a large pre-trained model. After that, model optimizes the prompt selection processes with GumbelSoftmax. In this way, our model is trained using relatively little memory and learning time. Also, RPLKG selects the optimal interpretable prompt automatically, depending on the dataset. In summary, RPLKG is i) interpretable, ii) requires small computation resources, and iii) easy to incorporate prior human knowledge. To validate the RPLKG, we provide comprehensive experimental results on few-shot learning, domain generalization and new class generalization setting. RPLKG shows a significant performance improvement compared to zero-shot learning and competitive performance against several prompt learning methods using much lower resources. 

**Title:** Auditing and Generating Synthetic Data with Controllable Trust  Trade-offs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10819

**Abstract:** Data collected from the real world tends to be biased, unbalanced, and at risk of exposing sensitive and private information. This reality has given rise to the idea of creating synthetic datasets to alleviate risk, bias, harm, and privacy concerns inherent in the real data. This concept relies on Generative AI models to produce unbiased, privacy-preserving synthetic data while being true to the real data. In this new paradigm, how can we tell if this approach delivers on its promises? We present an auditing framework that offers a holistic assessment of synthetic datasets and AI models trained on them, centered around bias and discrimination prevention, fidelity to the real data, utility, robustness, and privacy preservation. We showcase our framework by auditing multiple generative models on diverse use cases, including education, healthcare, banking, human resources, and across different modalities, from tabular, to time-series, to natural language. Our use cases demonstrate the importance of a holistic assessment in order to ensure compliance with socio-technical safeguards that regulators and policymakers are increasingly enforcing. For this purpose, we introduce the trust index that ranks multiple synthetic datasets based on their prescribed safeguards and their desired trade-offs. Moreover, we devise a trust-index-driven model selection and cross-validation procedure via auditing in the training loop that we showcase on a class of transformer models that we dub TrustFormers, across different modalities. This trust-driven model selection allows for controllable trust trade-offs in the resulting synthetic data. We instrument our auditing framework with workflows that connect different stakeholders from model development to audit and certification via a synthetic data auditing report. 

**Title:** A Deep Learning algorithm to accelerate Algebraic Multigrid methods in  Finite Element solvers of 3D elliptic PDEs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10832

**Abstract:** Algebraic multigrid (AMG) methods are among the most efficient solvers for linear systems of equations and they are widely used for the solution of problems stemming from the discretization of Partial Differential Equations (PDEs). The most severe limitation of AMG methods is the dependence on parameters that require to be fine-tuned. In particular, the strong threshold parameter is the most relevant since it stands at the basis of the construction of successively coarser grids needed by the AMG methods. We introduce a novel Deep Learning algorithm that minimizes the computational cost of the AMG method when used as a finite element solver. We show that our algorithm requires minimal changes to any existing code. The proposed Artificial Neural Network (ANN) tunes the value of the strong threshold parameter by interpreting the sparse matrix of the linear system as a black-and-white image and exploiting a pooling operator to transform it into a small multi-channel image. We experimentally prove that the pooling successfully reduces the computational cost of processing a large sparse matrix and preserves the features needed for the regression task at hand. We train the proposed algorithm on a large dataset containing problems with a highly heterogeneous diffusion coefficient defined in different three-dimensional geometries and discretized with unstructured grids and linear elasticity problems with a highly heterogeneous Young's modulus. When tested on problems with coefficients or geometries not present in the training dataset, our approach reduces the computational time by up to 30%. 

**Title:** A numerical method for the stability analysis of linear age-structured  models with nonlocal diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10835

**Abstract:** We numerically investigate the stability of linear age-structured population models with nonlocal diffusion, which arise naturally in describing dynamics of infectious diseases. Compared to Laplace diffusion, the analysis of models with nonlocal diffusion is more challenging since the associated semigroups have no regularizing properties in the spatial variable. Nevertheless, the asymptotic stability of the null equilibrium is determined by the spectrum of the infinitesimal generator associated to the semigroup. We propose to approximate the leading part of this spectrum by first reformulating the problem via integration of the age-state and then by discretizing the generator combining a spectral projection in space with a pseudospectral collocation in age. A rigorous convergence analysis is provided in the case of separable model coefficients. Results are confirmed experimentally and numerical tests are presented also for the more general instance. 

**Title:** Text2Time: Transformer-based article time period predictor  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10859

**Abstract:** We explore the problem of predicting the publication period of text document, such as a news article, using the text from that document. In order to do so, we created our own extensive labeled dataset of over 350,000 news articles published by The New York Times over six decades. We then provide an implementation of a simple Naive Bayes baseline model, which surprisingly achieves decent performance in terms of accuracy.Finally, for our approach, we use a pretrained BERT model fine-tuned for the task of text classification. This model exceeds our expectations and provides some very impressive results in terms of accurately classifying news articles into their respective publication decades. The results beat the performance of the few previously tried models for this relatively unexplored task of time prediction from text. 

**Title:** Transformer-based models and hardware acceleration analysis in  autonomous driving: A survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10891

**Abstract:** Transformer architectures have exhibited promising performance in various autonomous driving applications in recent years. On the other hand, its dedicated hardware acceleration on portable computational platforms has become the next critical step for practical deployment in real autonomous vehicles. This survey paper provides a comprehensive overview, benchmark, and analysis of Transformer-based models specifically tailored for autonomous driving tasks such as lane detection, segmentation, tracking, planning, and decision-making. We review different architectures for organizing Transformer inputs and outputs, such as encoder-decoder and encoder-only structures, and explore their respective advantages and disadvantages. Furthermore, we discuss Transformer-related operators and their hardware acceleration schemes in depth, taking into account key factors such as quantization and runtime. We specifically illustrate the operator level comparison between layers from convolutional neural network, Swin-Transformer, and Transformer with 4D encoder. The paper also highlights the challenges, trends, and current insights in Transformer-based models, addressing their hardware deployment and acceleration issues within the context of long-term autonomous driving applications. 

**Title:** FindVehicle and VehicleFinder: A NER dataset for natural language-based  vehicle retrieval and a keyword-based cross-modal vehicle retrieval system  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10893

**Abstract:** Natural language (NL) based vehicle retrieval is a task aiming to retrieve a vehicle that is most consistent with a given NL query from among all candidate vehicles. Because NL query can be easily obtained, such a task has a promising prospect in building an interactive intelligent traffic system (ITS). Current solutions mainly focus on extracting both text and image features and mapping them to the same latent space to compare the similarity. However, existing methods usually use dependency analysis or semantic role-labelling techniques to find keywords related to vehicle attributes. These techniques may require a lot of pre-processing and post-processing work, and also suffer from extracting the wrong keyword when the NL query is complex. To tackle these problems and simplify, we borrow the idea from named entity recognition (NER) and construct FindVehicle, a NER dataset in the traffic domain. It has 42.3k labelled NL descriptions of vehicle tracks, containing information such as the location, orientation, type and colour of the vehicle. FindVehicle also adopts both overlapping entities and fine-grained entities to meet further requirements. To verify its effectiveness, we propose a baseline NL-based vehicle retrieval model called VehicleFinder. Our experiment shows that by using text encoders pre-trained by FindVehicle, VehicleFinder achieves 87.7\% precision and 89.4\% recall when retrieving a target vehicle by text command on our homemade dataset based on UA-DETRAC. The time cost of VehicleFinder is 279.35 ms on one ARM v8.2 CPU and 93.72 ms on one RTX A4000 GPU, which is much faster than the Transformer-based system. The dataset is open-source via the link https://github.com/GuanRunwei/FindVehicle, and the implementation can be found via the link https://github.com/GuanRunwei/VehicleFinder-CTIM. 

**Title:** Self-Attention in Colors: Another Take on Encoding Graph Structure in  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10933

**Abstract:** We introduce a novel self-attention mechanism, which we call CSA (Chromatic Self-Attention), which extends the notion of attention scores to attention _filters_, independently modulating the feature channels. We showcase CSA in a fully-attentional graph Transformer CGT (Chromatic Graph Transformer) which integrates both graph structural information and edge features, completely bypassing the need for local message-passing components. Our method flexibly encodes graph structure through node-node interactions, by enriching the original edge features with a relative positional encoding scheme. We propose a new scheme based on random walks that encodes both structural and positional information, and show how to incorporate higher-order topological information, such as rings in molecular graphs. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on the ZINC benchmark dataset, while providing a flexible framework for encoding graph structure and incorporating higher-order topology. 

**Title:** A convection-diffusion problem with a large shift on Duran meshes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10937

**Abstract:** A convection-diffusion problem with a large shift in space is considered. Numerical analysis of high order finite element methods on layer-adapted Duran type meshes, as well as on coarser Duran type meshes in places where weak layers appear, is provided. The theoretical results are confirmed by numerical experiments. 

**Title:** CancerGPT: Few-shot Drug Pair Synergy Prediction using Large Pre-trained  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10946

**Abstract:** Large pre-trained language models (LLMs) have been shown to have significant potential in few-shot learning across various fields, even with minimal training data. However, their ability to generalize to unseen tasks in more complex fields, such as biology, has yet to be fully evaluated. LLMs can offer a promising alternative approach for biological inference, particularly in cases where structured data and sample size are limited, by extracting prior knowledge from text corpora. Our proposed few-shot learning approach uses LLMs to predict the synergy of drug pairs in rare tissues that lack structured data and features. Our experiments, which involved seven rare tissues from different cancer types, demonstrated that the LLM-based prediction model achieved significant accuracy with very few or zero samples. Our proposed model, the CancerGPT (with $\sim$ 124M parameters), was even comparable to the larger fine-tuned GPT-3 model (with $\sim$ 175B parameters). Our research is the first to tackle drug pair synergy prediction in rare tissues with limited data. We are also the first to utilize an LLM-based prediction model for biological reaction prediction tasks. 

**Title:** Can GPT-4 Perform Neural Architecture Search?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10970

**Abstract:** We investigate the potential of GPT-4~\cite{gpt4} to perform Neural Architecture Search (NAS) -- the task of designing effective neural architectures. Our proposed approach, \textbf{G}PT-4 \textbf{I}nformed \textbf{N}eural \textbf{A}rchitecture \textbf{S}earch (GINAS),leverages the generative capabilities of GPT-4 as a black-box optimiser to quickly navigate the architecture search space, pinpoint promising candidates, and iteratively refine these candidates to improve performance.We assess GINAS across several benchmarks, comparing it with existing state-of-the-art NAS techniques to illustrate its effectiveness. Rather than targeting state-of-the-art performance, our objective is to highlight GPT-4's potential to assist research on a challenging technical problem through a simple prompting scheme that requires relatively limited domain expertise. More broadly, we believe our preliminary results point to future research that harnesses general purpose language models for diverse optimisation tasks. We also highlight important limitations to our study, and note implications for AI safety. 

**Title:** Evaluating Transformer Language Models on Arithmetic Operations Using  Number Decomposition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10977

**Abstract:** In recent years, Large Language Models such as GPT-3 showed remarkable capabilities in performing NLP tasks in the zero and few shot settings. On the other hand, the experiments highlighted the difficulty of GPT-3 in carrying out tasks that require a certain degree of reasoning, such as arithmetic operations. In this paper we evaluate the ability of Transformer Language Models to perform arithmetic operations following a pipeline that, before performing computations, decomposes numbers in units, tens, and so on. We denote the models fine-tuned with this pipeline with the name Calculon and we test them in the task of performing additions, subtractions and multiplications on the same test sets of GPT-3. Results show an increase of accuracy of 63% in the five-digit addition task. Moreover, we demonstrate the importance of the decomposition pipeline introduced, since fine-tuning the same Language Model without decomposing numbers results in 0% accuracy in the five-digit addition task. 

**Title:** BERT Based Clinical Knowledge Extraction for Biomedical Knowledge Graph  Construction and Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10996

**Abstract:** Background : Knowledge is evolving over time, often as a result of new discoveries or changes in the adopted methods of reasoning. Also, new facts or evidence may become available, leading to new understandings of complex phenomena. This is particularly true in the biomedical field, where scientists and physicians are constantly striving to find new methods of diagnosis, treatment and eventually cure. Knowledge Graphs (KGs) offer a real way of organizing and retrieving the massive and growing amount of biomedical knowledge. 

**Title:** Robot-Enabled Construction Assembly with Automated Sequence Planning  based on ChatGPT: RoboGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11018

**Abstract:** Robot-based assembly in construction has emerged as a promising solution to address numerous challenges such as increasing costs, labor shortages, and the demand for safe and efficient construction processes. One of the main obstacles in realizing the full potential of these robotic systems is the need for effective and efficient sequence planning for construction tasks. Current approaches, including mathematical and heuristic techniques or machine learning methods, face limitations in their adaptability and scalability to dynamic construction environments. To expand the ability of the current robot system in sequential understanding, this paper introduces RoboGPT, a novel system that leverages the advanced reasoning capabilities of ChatGPT, a large language model, for automated sequence planning in robot-based assembly applied to construction tasks. The proposed system adapts ChatGPT for construction sequence planning and demonstrate its feasibility and effectiveness through experimental evaluation including Two case studies and 80 trials about real construction tasks. The results show that RoboGPT-driven robots can handle complex construction operations and adapt to changes on the fly. This paper contributes to the ongoing efforts to enhance the capabilities and performance of robot-based assembly systems in the construction industry, and it paves the way for further integration of large language model technologies in the field of construction robotics. 

**Title:** Affective social anthropomorphic intelligent system  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11046

**Abstract:** Human conversational styles are measured by the sense of humor, personality, and tone of voice. These characteristics have become essential for conversational intelligent virtual assistants. However, most of the state-of-the-art intelligent virtual assistants (IVAs) are failed to interpret the affective semantics of human voices. This research proposes an anthropomorphic intelligent system that can hold a proper human-like conversation with emotion and personality. A voice style transfer method is also proposed to map the attributes of a specific emotion. Initially, the frequency domain data (Mel-Spectrogram) is created by converting the temporal audio wave data, which comprises discrete patterns for audio features such as notes, pitch, rhythm, and melody. A collateral CNN-Transformer-Encoder is used to predict seven different affective states from voice. The voice is also fed parallelly to the deep-speech, an RNN model that generates the text transcription from the spectrogram. Then the transcripted text is transferred to the multi-domain conversation agent using blended skill talk, transformer-based retrieve-and-generate generation strategy, and beam-search decoding, and an appropriate textual response is generated. The system learns an invertible mapping of data to a latent space that can be manipulated and generates a Mel-spectrogram frame based on previous Mel-spectrogram frames to voice synthesize and style transfer. Finally, the waveform is generated using WaveGlow from the spectrogram. The outcomes of the studies we conducted on individual models were auspicious. Furthermore, users who interacted with the system provided positive feedback, demonstrating the system's effectiveness. 

**Title:** PowerGAN: A Machine Learning Approach for Power Side-Channel Attack on  Compute-in-Memory Accelerators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11056

**Abstract:** Analog compute-in-memory (CIM) accelerators are becoming increasingly popular for deep neural network (DNN) inference due to their energy efficiency and in-situ vector-matrix multiplication (VMM) capabilities. However, as the use of DNNs expands, protecting user input privacy has become increasingly important. In this paper, we identify a security vulnerability wherein an adversary can reconstruct the user's private input data from a power side-channel attack, under proper data acquisition and pre-processing, even without knowledge of the DNN model. We further demonstrate a machine learning-based attack approach using a generative adversarial network (GAN) to enhance the reconstruction. Our results show that the attack methodology is effective in reconstructing user inputs from analog CIM accelerator power leakage, even when at large noise levels and countermeasures are applied. Specifically, we demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on the U-Net for brain tumor detection in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) medical images, with a noise-level of 20% standard deviation of the maximum power signal value. Our study highlights a significant security vulnerability in analog CIM accelerators and proposes an effective attack methodology using a GAN to breach user privacy. 

**Title:** Scaling Transformer to 1M tokens and beyond with RMT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11062

**Abstract:** This technical report presents the application of a recurrent memory to extend the context length of BERT, one of the most effective Transformer-based models in natural language processing. By leveraging the Recurrent Memory Transformer architecture, we have successfully increased the model's effective context length to an unprecedented two million tokens, while maintaining high memory retrieval accuracy. Our method allows for the storage and processing of both local and global information and enables information flow between segments of the input sequence through the use of recurrence. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, which holds significant potential to enhance long-term dependency handling in natural language understanding and generation tasks as well as enable large-scale context processing for memory-intensive applications. 

**Title:** Think Before You Act: Unified Policy for Interleaving Language Reasoning  with Actions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11063

**Abstract:** The success of transformer models trained with a language modeling objective brings a promising opportunity to the reinforcement learning framework. Decision Transformer is a step towards this direction, showing how to train transformers with a similar next-step prediction objective on offline data. Another important development in this area is the recent emergence of large-scale datasets collected from the internet, such as the ones composed of tutorial videos with captions where people talk about what they are doing. To take advantage of this language component, we propose a novel method for unifying language reasoning with actions in a single policy. Specifically, we augment a transformer policy with word outputs, so it can generate textual captions interleaved with actions. When tested on the most challenging task in BabyAI, with captions describing next subgoals, our reasoning policy consistently outperforms the caption-free baseline. 

**Title:** Conversational Process Modelling: State of the Art, Applications, and  Implications in Practice  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11065

**Abstract:** Chatbots such as ChatGPT have caused a tremendous hype lately. For BPM applications, it is often not clear how to apply chatbots to generate business value. Hence, this work aims at the systematic analysis of existing chatbots for their support of conversational process modelling as process-oriented capability. Application scenarios are identified along the process life cycle. Then a systematic literature review on conversational process modelling is performed. The resulting taxonomy serves as input for the identification of application scenarios for conversational process modelling, including paraphrasing and improvement of process descriptions. The application scenarios are evaluated for existing chatbots based on a real-world test set from the higher education domain. It contains process descriptions as well as corresponding process models, together with an assessment of the model quality. Based on the literature and application scenario analyses, recommendations for the usage (practical implications) and further development (research directions) of conversational process modelling are derived. 

**Title:** An Unbiased Transformer Source Code Learning with Semantic Vulnerability  Graph  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11072

**Abstract:** Over the years, open-source software systems have become prey to threat actors. Even as open-source communities act quickly to patch the breach, code vulnerability screening should be an integral part of agile software development from the beginning. Unfortunately, current vulnerability screening techniques are ineffective at identifying novel vulnerabilities or providing developers with code vulnerability and classification. Furthermore, the datasets used for vulnerability learning often exhibit distribution shifts from the real-world testing distribution due to novel attack strategies deployed by adversaries and as a result, the machine learning model's performance may be hindered or biased. To address these issues, we propose a joint interpolated multitasked unbiased vulnerability classifier comprising a transformer "RoBERTa" and graph convolution neural network (GCN). We present a training process utilizing a semantic vulnerability graph (SVG) representation from source code, created by integrating edges from a sequential flow, control flow, and data flow, as well as a novel flow dubbed Poacher Flow (PF). Poacher flow edges reduce the gap between dynamic and static program analysis and handle complex long-range dependencies. Moreover, our approach reduces biases of classifiers regarding unbalanced datasets by integrating Focal Loss objective function along with SVG. Remarkably, experimental results show that our classifier outperforms state-of-the-art results on vulnerability detection with fewer false negatives and false positives. After testing our model across multiple datasets, it shows an improvement of at least 2.41% and 18.75% in the best-case scenario. Evaluations using N-day program samples demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves a 93% accuracy and was able to detect 4, zero-day vulnerabilities from popular GitHub repositories. 

**Title:** Can ChatGPT-like Generative Models Guarantee Factual Accuracy? On the  Mistakes of New Generation Search Engines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11076

**Abstract:** Although large conversational AI models such as OpenAI's ChatGPT have demonstrated great potential, we question whether such models can guarantee factual accuracy. Recently, technology companies such as Microsoft and Google have announced new services which aim to combine search engines with conversational AI. However, we have found numerous mistakes in the public demonstrations that suggest we should not easily trust the factual claims of the AI models. Rather than criticizing specific models or companies, we hope to call on researchers and developers to improve AI models' transparency and factual correctness. 

**Title:** HeRo: RoBERTa and Longformer Hebrew Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11077

**Abstract:** In this paper, we fill in an existing gap in resources available to the Hebrew NLP community by providing it with the largest so far pre-train dataset HeDC4, a state-of-the-art pre-trained language model HeRo for standard length inputs and an efficient transformer LongHeRo for long input sequences. The HeRo model was evaluated on the sentiment analysis, the named entity recognition, and the question answering tasks while the LongHeRo model was evaluated on the document classification task with a dataset composed of long documents. Both HeRo and LongHeRo presented state-of-the-art performance. The dataset and model checkpoints used in this work are publicly available. 

**Title:** Academic Writing with GPT-3.5: Reflections on Practices, Efficacy and  Transparency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11079

**Abstract:** The debate around the use of GPT 3.5 has been a popular topic among academics since the release of ChatGPT. Whilst some have argued for the advantages of GPT 3.5 in enhancing academic writing, others have raised concerns such as plagiarism, the spread of false information, and ecological issues. The need for finding ways to use GPT 3.5 models transparently has been voiced, and suggestions have been made on social media as to how to use GPT 3.5 models in a smart way. Nevertheless, to date, there is a lack of literature which clearly outlines how to use GPT 3.5 models in academic writing, how effective they are, and how to use them transparently. To address this, I conducted a personal experience experiment with GPT 3.5, specifically by using OpenAI text davinci 003 model, for writing this article. I identified five ways of using GPT 3.5: Chunk Stylist, Bullet to Paragraph, Talk Textualizer, Research Buddy, and Polisher. I reflected on their efficacy, and commented on their potential impact on writing ethics. Additionally, I provided a comprehensive document which shows the prompts I used, results I got from GPT 3.5, the final edits and visually compares those by showing the differences in percentages. 

**Title:** Testing the Reliability of ChatGPT for Text Annotation and  Classification: A Cautionary Remark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11085

**Abstract:** Recent studies have demonstrated promising potential of ChatGPT for various text annotation and classification tasks. However, ChatGPT is non-deterministic which means that, as with human coders, identical input can lead to different outputs. Given this, it seems appropriate to test the reliability of ChatGPT. Therefore, this study investigates the consistency of ChatGPT's zero-shot capabilities for text annotation and classification, focusing on different model parameters, prompt variations, and repetitions of identical inputs. Based on the real-world classification task of differentiating website texts into news and not news, results show that consistency in ChatGPT's classification output can fall short of scientific thresholds for reliability. For example, even minor wording alterations in prompts or repeating the identical input can lead to varying outputs. Although pooling outputs from multiple repetitions can improve reliability, this study advises caution when using ChatGPT for zero-shot text annotation and underscores the need for thorough validation, such as comparison against human-annotated data. The unsupervised application of ChatGPT for text annotation and classification is not recommended. 

**Title:** Profiling the news spreading barriers using news headlines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11088

**Abstract:** News headlines can be a good data source for detecting the news spreading barriers in news media, which may be useful in many real-world applications. In this paper, we utilize semantic knowledge through the inference-based model COMET and sentiments of news headlines for barrier classification. We consider five barriers including cultural, economic, political, linguistic, and geographical, and different types of news headlines including health, sports, science, recreation, games, homes, society, shopping, computers, and business. To that end, we collect and label the news headlines automatically for the barriers using the metadata of news publishers. Then, we utilize the extracted commonsense inferences and sentiments as features to detect the news spreading barriers. We compare our approach to the classical text classification methods, deep learning, and transformer-based methods. The results show that the proposed approach using inferences-based semantic knowledge and sentiment offers better performance than the usual (the average F1-score of the ten categories improves from 0.41, 0.39, 0.59, and 0.59 to 0.47, 0.55, 0.70, and 0.76 for the cultural, economic, political, and geographical respectively) for classifying the news-spreading barriers. 

**Title:** Towards Responsible AI in the Era of ChatGPT: A Reference Architecture  for Designing Foundation Model-based AI Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11090

**Abstract:** The release of ChatGPT, Bard, and other large language model (LLM)-based chatbots has drawn huge attention on foundations models worldwide. There is a growing trend that foundation models will serve as the fundamental building blocks for most of the future AI systems. However, incorporating foundation models in AI systems raises significant concerns about responsible AI due to their black box nature and rapidly advancing super-intelligence. Additionally, the foundation model's growing capabilities can eventually absorb the other components of AI systems, introducing the moving boundary and interface evolution challenges in architecture design. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a pattern-oriented responsible-AI-by-design reference architecture for designing foundation model-based AI systems. Specially, the paper first presents an architecture evolution of AI systems in the era of foundation models, from "foundation-model-as-a-connector" to "foundation-model-as-a-monolithic architecture". The paper then identifies the key design decision points and proposes a pattern-oriented reference architecture to provide reusable responsible-AI-by-design architectural solutions to address the new architecture evolution and responsible AI challenges. The patterns can be embedded as product features of foundation model-based AI systems and can enable organisations to capitalise on the potential of foundation models while minimising associated risks. 

**Title:** Is Cross-modal Information Retrieval Possible without Training?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11095

**Abstract:** Encoded representations from a pretrained deep learning model (e.g., BERT text embeddings, penultimate CNN layer activations of an image) convey a rich set of features beneficial for information retrieval. Embeddings for a particular modality of data occupy a high-dimensional space of its own, but it can be semantically aligned to another by a simple mapping without training a deep neural net. In this paper, we take a simple mapping computed from the least squares and singular value decomposition (SVD) for a solution to the Procrustes problem to serve a means to cross-modal information retrieval. That is, given information in one modality such as text, the mapping helps us locate a semantically equivalent data item in another modality such as image. Using off-the-shelf pretrained deep learning models, we have experimented the aforementioned simple cross-modal mappings in tasks of text-to-image and image-to-text retrieval. Despite simplicity, our mappings perform reasonably well reaching the highest accuracy of 77% on recall@10, which is comparable to those requiring costly neural net training and fine-tuning. We have improved the simple mappings by contrastive learning on the pretrained models. Contrastive learning can be thought as properly biasing the pretrained encoders to enhance the cross-modal mapping quality. We have further improved the performance by multilayer perceptron with gating (gMLP), a simple neural architecture. 

**Title:** Improved Diffusion-based Image Colorization via Piggybacked Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11105

**Abstract:** Image colorization has been attracting the research interests of the community for decades. However, existing methods still struggle to provide satisfactory colorized results given grayscale images due to a lack of human-like global understanding of colors. Recently, large-scale Text-to-Image (T2I) models have been exploited to transfer the semantic information from the text prompts to the image domain, where text provides a global control for semantic objects in the image. In this work, we introduce a colorization model piggybacking on the existing powerful T2I diffusion model. Our key idea is to exploit the color prior knowledge in the pre-trained T2I diffusion model for realistic and diverse colorization. A diffusion guider is designed to incorporate the pre-trained weights of the latent diffusion model to output a latent color prior that conforms to the visual semantics of the grayscale input. A lightness-aware VQVAE will then generate the colorized result with pixel-perfect alignment to the given grayscale image. Our model can also achieve conditional colorization with additional inputs (e.g. user hints and texts). Extensive experiments show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of perceptual quality. 

**Title:** ChatABL: Abductive Learning via Natural Language Interaction with  ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11107

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have recently demonstrated significant potential in mathematical abilities, providing valuable reasoning paradigm consistent with human natural language. However, LLMs currently have difficulty in bridging perception, language understanding and reasoning capabilities due to incompatibility of the underlying information flow among them, making it challenging to accomplish tasks autonomously. On the other hand, abductive learning (ABL) frameworks for integrating the two abilities of perception and reasoning has seen significant success in inverse decipherment of incomplete facts, but it is limited by the lack of semantic understanding of logical reasoning rules and the dependence on complicated domain knowledge representation. This paper presents a novel method (ChatABL) for integrating LLMs into the ABL framework, aiming at unifying the three abilities in a more user-friendly and understandable manner. The proposed method uses the strengths of LLMs' understanding and logical reasoning to correct the incomplete logical facts for optimizing the performance of perceptual module, by summarizing and reorganizing reasoning rules represented in natural language format. Similarly, perceptual module provides necessary reasoning examples for LLMs in natural language format. The variable-length handwritten equation deciphering task, an abstract expression of the Mayan calendar decoding, is used as a testbed to demonstrate that ChatABL has reasoning ability beyond most existing state-of-the-art methods, which has been well supported by comparative studies. To our best knowledge, the proposed ChatABL is the first attempt to explore a new pattern for further approaching human-level cognitive ability via natural language interaction with ChatGPT. 

**Title:** Inducing anxiety in large language models increases exploration and bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11111

**Abstract:** Large language models are transforming research on machine learning while galvanizing public debates. Understanding not only when these models work well and succeed but also why they fail and misbehave is of great societal relevance. We propose to turn the lens of computational psychiatry, a framework used to computationally describe and modify aberrant behavior, to the outputs produced by these models. We focus on the Generative Pre-Trained Transformer 3.5 and subject it to tasks commonly studied in psychiatry. Our results show that GPT-3.5 responds robustly to a common anxiety questionnaire, producing higher anxiety scores than human subjects. Moreover, GPT-3.5's responses can be predictably changed by using emotion-inducing prompts. Emotion-induction not only influences GPT-3.5's behavior in a cognitive task measuring exploratory decision-making but also influences its behavior in a previously-established task measuring biases such as racism and ableism. Crucially, GPT-3.5 shows a strong increase in biases when prompted with anxiety-inducing text. Thus, it is likely that how prompts are communicated to large language models has a strong influence on their behavior in applied settings. These results progress our understanding of prompt engineering and demonstrate the usefulness of methods taken from computational psychiatry for studying the capable algorithms to which we increasingly delegate authority and autonomy. 

**Title:** A vector quantized masked autoencoder for speech emotion recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11117

**Abstract:** Recent years have seen remarkable progress in speech emotion recognition (SER), thanks to advances in deep learning techniques. However, the limited availability of labeled data remains a significant challenge in the field. Self-supervised learning has recently emerged as a promising solution to address this challenge. In this paper, we propose the vector quantized masked autoencoder for speech (VQ-MAE-S), a self-supervised model that is fine-tuned to recognize emotions from speech signals. The VQ-MAE-S model is based on a masked autoencoder (MAE) that operates in the discrete latent space of a vector-quantized variational autoencoder. Experimental results show that the proposed VQ-MAE-S model, pre-trained on the VoxCeleb2 dataset and fine-tuned on emotional speech data, outperforms an MAE working on the raw spectrogram representation and other state-of-the-art methods in SER. 

**Title:** BoDiffusion: Diffusing Sparse Observations for Full-Body Human Motion  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11118

**Abstract:** Mixed reality applications require tracking the user's full-body motion to enable an immersive experience. However, typical head-mounted devices can only track head and hand movements, leading to a limited reconstruction of full-body motion due to variability in lower body configurations. We propose BoDiffusion -- a generative diffusion model for motion synthesis to tackle this under-constrained reconstruction problem. We present a time and space conditioning scheme that allows BoDiffusion to leverage sparse tracking inputs while generating smooth and realistic full-body motion sequences. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach that uses the reverse diffusion process to model full-body tracking as a conditional sequence generation task. We conduct experiments on the large-scale motion-capture dataset AMASS and show that our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches by a significant margin in terms of full-body motion realism and joint reconstruction error. 

**Title:** Automated Mapping of CVE Vulnerability Records to MITRE CWE Weaknesses  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11130

**Abstract:** In recent years, a proliferation of cyber-security threats and diversity has been on the rise culminating in an increase in their reporting and analysis. To counter that, many non-profit organizations have emerged in this domain, such as MITRE and OSWAP, which have been actively tracking vulnerabilities, and publishing defense recommendations in standardized formats. As producing data in such formats manually is very time-consuming, there have been some proposals to automate the process. Unfortunately, a major obstacle to adopting supervised machine learning for this problem has been the lack of publicly available specialized datasets. Here, we aim to bridge this gap. In particular, we focus on mapping CVE records into MITRE CWE Weaknesses, and we release to the research community a manually annotated dataset of 4,012 records for this task. With a human-in-the-loop framework in mind, we approach the problem as a ranking task and aim to incorporate reinforced learning to make use of the human feedback in future work. Our experimental results using fine-tuned deep learning models, namely Sentence-BERT and rankT5, show sizable performance gains over BM25, BERT, and RoBERTa, which demonstrates the need for an architecture capable of good semantic understanding for this task. 

**Title:** SkinGPT: A Dermatology Diagnostic System with Vision Large Language  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10691

**Abstract:** Skin and subcutaneous diseases are among the major causes of the nonfatal disease burden worldwide, affecting a significant proportion of the population. However, there are three major challenges in the field of dermatology diagnosis. Firstly, there is a shortage of dermatologists available to diagnose patients. Secondly, accurately diagnosing dermatological pictures can be challenging. Lastly, providing user-friendly diagnostic reports can be difficult. Recent advancements in the field of large language models (LLMs) have shown potential for clinical applications. However, current LLMs have difficulty processing images, and there are potential privacy concerns associated with using ChatGPT's API for uploading data. In this paper, we propose SkinGPT, which is the first dermatology diagnostic system that utilizes an advanced vision-based large language model. SkinGPT is the first system of its kind, incorporating a fine-tuned version of MiniGPT-4 with a vast collection of in-house skin disease images, accompanied by doctor's notes. With SkinGPT, users can upload their own skin photos for diagnosis, and the system can autonomously determine the characteristics and categories of skin conditions, perform analysis, and provide treatment recommendations. The ability to deploy it locally and protect user privacy makes SkinGPT an attractive option for patients seeking an accurate and reliable diagnosis of their skin conditions. 

**Title:** Persistently Trained, Diffusion-assisted Energy-based Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10707

**Abstract:** Maximum likelihood (ML) learning for energy-based models (EBMs) is challenging, partly due to non-convergence of Markov chain Monte Carlo.Several variations of ML learning have been proposed, but existing methods all fail to achieve both post-training image generation and proper density estimation. We propose to introduce diffusion data and learn a joint EBM, called diffusion assisted-EBMs, through persistent training (i.e., using persistent contrastive divergence) with an enhanced sampling algorithm to properly sample from complex, multimodal distributions. We present results from a 2D illustrative experiment and image experiments and demonstrate that, for the first time for image data, persistently trained EBMs can {\it simultaneously} achieve long-run stability, post-training image generation, and superior out-of-distribution detection. 

**Title:** Multi-Modal Deep Learning for Credit Rating Prediction Using Text and  Numerical Data Streams  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10740

**Abstract:** Knowing which factors are significant in credit rating assignment leads to better decision-making. However, the focus of the literature thus far has been mostly on structured data, and fewer studies have addressed unstructured or multi-modal datasets. In this paper, we present an analysis of the most effective architectures for the fusion of deep learning models for the prediction of company credit rating classes, by using structured and unstructured datasets of different types. In these models, we tested different combinations of fusion strategies with different deep learning models, including CNN, LSTM, GRU, and BERT. We studied data fusion strategies in terms of level (including early and intermediate fusion) and techniques (including concatenation and cross-attention). Our results show that a CNN-based multi-modal model with two fusion strategies outperformed other multi-modal techniques. In addition, by comparing simple architectures with more complex ones, we found that more sophisticated deep learning models do not necessarily produce the highest performance; however, if attention-based models are producing the best results, cross-attention is necessary as a fusion strategy. Finally, our comparison of rating agencies on short-, medium-, and long-term performance shows that Moody's credit ratings outperform those of other agencies like Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings. 

**Title:** Non-autoregressive End-to-end Approaches for Joint Automatic Speech  Recognition and Spoken Language Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.10869

**Abstract:** This paper presents the use of non-autoregressive (NAR) approaches for joint automatic speech recognition (ASR) and spoken language understanding (SLU) tasks. The proposed NAR systems employ a Conformer encoder that applies connectionist temporal classification (CTC) to transcribe the speech utterance into raw ASR hypotheses, which are further refined with a bidirectional encoder representations from Transformers (BERT)-like decoder. In the meantime, the intent and slot labels of the utterance are predicted simultaneously using the same decoder. Both Mask-CTC and self-conditioned CTC (SC-CTC) approaches are explored for this study. Experiments conducted on the SLURP dataset show that the proposed SC-Mask-CTC NAR system achieves 3.7% and 3.2% absolute gains in SLU metrics and a competitive level of ASR accuracy, when compared to a Conformer-Transformer based autoregressive (AR) model. Additionally, the NAR systems achieve 6x faster decoding speed than the AR baseline. 

**Title:** Plug-and-Play split Gibbs sampler: embedding deep generative priors in  Bayesian inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11134

**Abstract:** This paper introduces a stochastic plug-and-play (PnP) sampling algorithm that leverages variable splitting to efficiently sample from a posterior distribution. The algorithm based on split Gibbs sampling (SGS) draws inspiration from the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). It divides the challenging task of posterior sampling into two simpler sampling problems. The first problem depends on the likelihood function, while the second is interpreted as a Bayesian denoising problem that can be readily carried out by a deep generative model. Specifically, for an illustrative purpose, the proposed method is implemented in this paper using state-of-the-art diffusion-based generative models. Akin to its deterministic PnP-based counterparts, the proposed method exhibits the great advantage of not requiring an explicit choice of the prior distribution, which is rather encoded into a pre-trained generative model. However, unlike optimization methods (e.g., PnP-ADMM) which generally provide only point estimates, the proposed approach allows conventional Bayesian estimators to be accompanied by confidence intervals at a reasonable additional computational cost. Experiments on commonly studied image processing problems illustrate the efficiency of the proposed sampling strategy. Its performance is compared to recent state-of-the-art optimization and sampling methods. 

