**Title:** ChatGPT, Large Language Technologies, and the Bumpy Road of Benefiting  Humanity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11163

**Abstract:** The allure of emerging AI technologies is undoubtedly thrilling. However, the promise that AI technologies will benefit all of humanity is empty so long as we lack a nuanced understanding of what humanity is supposed to be in the face of widening global inequality and pressing existential threats. Going forward, it is crucial to invest in rigorous and collaborative AI safety and ethics research. We also need to develop standards in a sustainable and equitable way that differentiate between merely speculative and well-researched questions. Only the latter enable us to co-construct and deploy the values that are necessary for creating beneficial AI. Failure to do so could result in a future in which our AI technological advancements outstrip our ability to navigate their ethical and social implications. This path we do not want to go down. 

**Title:** An open-source pipeline for solving continuous reaction-diffusion models  in image-based geometries of porous media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11165

**Abstract:** We present a versatile open-source pipeline for simulating inhomogeneous reaction-diffusion processes in highly resolved, image-based geometries of porous media with reactive boundaries. Resolving realistic pore-scale geometries in numerical models is challenging and computationally demanding, as the scale differences between the sizes of the interstitia and the whole system can lead to prohibitive memory requirements. The present pipeline combines a level-set method with geometry-adapted sparse block grids on GPUs to efficiently simulate reaction-diffusion processes in image-based geometries. We showcase the method by applying it to fertilizer diffusion in soil, heat transfer in porous ceramics, and determining effective diffusion coefficients and tortuosity. The present approach enables solving reaction-diffusion partial differential equations in real-world geometries applicable to porous media across fields such as engineering, environmental science, and biology. 

**Title:** Exploring the Use of ChatGPT as a Tool for Learning and Assessment in  Undergraduate Computer Science Curriculum: Opportunities and Challenges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11214

**Abstract:** The application of Artificial intelligence for teaching and learning in the academic sphere is a trending subject of interest in the computing education. ChatGPT, as an AI-based tool, provides various advantages, such as heightened student involvement, cooperation, accessibility and availability. This paper addresses the prospects and obstacles associated with utilizing ChatGPT as a tool for learning and assessment in undergraduate Computer Science curriculum in particular to teaching and learning fundamental programming courses. Students having completed the course work for a Data Structures and Algorithms (a sophomore level course) participated in this study. Two groups of students were given programming challenges to solve within a short period of time. The control group (group A) had access to text books and notes of programming courses, however no Internet access was provided. Group B students were given access to ChatGPT and were encouraged to use it to help solve the programming challenges. The challenge was conducted in a computer lab environment using PC2 environment. Each team of students address the problem by writing executable code that satisfies certain number of test cases. Student teams were scored based on their performance in terms of number of successful passed testcases. Results show that students using ChatGPT had an advantage in terms of earned scores, however there were inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the submitted code consequently affecting the overall performance. After a thorough analysis, the paper's findings indicate that incorporating AI in higher education brings about various opportunities and challenges. 

**Title:** ChatGPT: More than a Weapon of Mass Deception, Ethical challenges and  responses from the Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HCAI) perspective  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11215

**Abstract:** This article explores the ethical problems arising from the use of ChatGPT as a kind of generative AI and suggests responses based on the Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HCAI) framework. The HCAI framework is appropriate because it understands technology above all as a tool to empower, augment, and enhance human agency while referring to human wellbeing as a grand challenge, thus perfectly aligning itself with ethics, the science of human flourishing. Further, HCAI provides objectives, principles, procedures, and structures for reliable, safe, and trustworthy AI which we apply to our ChatGPT assessments. The main danger ChatGPT presents is the propensity to be used as a weapon of mass deception (WMD) and an enabler of criminal activities involving deceit. We review technical specifications to better comprehend its potentials and limitations. We then suggest both technical (watermarking, styleme, detectors, and fact-checkers) and non-technical measures (terms of use, transparency, educator considerations, HITL) to mitigate ChatGPT misuse or abuse and recommend best uses (creative writing, non-creative writing, teaching and learning). We conclude with considerations regarding the role of humans in ensuring the proper use of ChatGPT for individual and social wellbeing. 

**Title:** AutoNeRF: Training Implicit Scene Representations with Autonomous Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11241

**Abstract:** Implicit representations such as Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been shown to be very effective at novel view synthesis. However, these models typically require manual and careful human data collection for training. In this paper, we present AutoNeRF, a method to collect data required to train NeRFs using autonomous embodied agents. Our method allows an agent to explore an unseen environment efficiently and use the experience to build an implicit map representation autonomously. We compare the impact of different exploration strategies including handcrafted frontier-based exploration and modular approaches composed of trained high-level planners and classical low-level path followers. We train these models with different reward functions tailored to this problem and evaluate the quality of the learned representations on four different downstream tasks: classical viewpoint rendering, map reconstruction, planning, and pose refinement. Empirical results show that NeRFs can be trained on actively collected data using just a single episode of experience in an unseen environment, and can be used for several downstream robotic tasks, and that modular trained exploration models significantly outperform the classical baselines. 

**Title:** eWaSR -- an embedded-compute-ready maritime obstacle detection network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11249

**Abstract:** Maritime obstacle detection is critical for safe navigation of autonomous surface vehicles (ASVs). While the accuracy of image-based detection methods has advanced substantially, their computational and memory requirements prohibit deployment on embedded devices. In this paper we analyze the currently best-performing maritime obstacle detection network WaSR. Based on the analysis we then propose replacements for the most computationally intensive stages and propose its embedded-compute-ready variant eWaSR. In particular, the new design follows the most recent advancements of transformer-based lightweight networks. eWaSR achieves comparable detection results to state-of-the-art WaSR with only 0.52% F1 score performance drop and outperforms other state-of-the-art embedded-ready architectures by over 9.74% in F1 score. On a standard GPU, eWaSR runs 10x faster than the original WaSR (115 FPS vs 11 FPS). Tests on a real embedded device OAK-D show that, while WaSR cannot run due to memory restrictions, eWaSR runs comfortably at 5.5 FPS. This makes eWaSR the first practical embedded-compute-ready maritime obstacle detection network. The source code and trained eWaSR models are publicly available here: https://github.com/tersekmatija/eWaSR. 

**Title:** Who's the Best Detective? LLMs vs. MLs in Detecting Incoherent Fourth  Grade Math Answers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11257

**Abstract:** Written answers to open-ended questions can have a higher long-term effect on learning than multiple-choice questions. However, it is critical that teachers immediately review the answers, and ask to redo those that are incoherent. This can be a difficult task and can be time-consuming for teachers. A possible solution is to automate the detection of incoherent answers. One option is to automate the review with Large Language Models (LLM). In this paper, we analyze the responses of fourth graders in mathematics using three LLMs: GPT-3, BLOOM, and YOU. We used them with zero, one, two, three and four shots. We compared their performance with the results of various classifiers trained with Machine Learning (ML). We found that LLMs perform worse than MLs in detecting incoherent answers. The difficulty seems to reside in recursive questions that contain both questions and answers, and in responses from students with typical fourth-grader misspellings. Upon closer examination, we have found that the ChatGPT model faces the same challenges. 

**Title:** Speed Is All You Need: On-Device Acceleration of Large Diffusion Models  via GPU-Aware Optimizations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11267

**Abstract:** The rapid development and application of foundation models have revolutionized the field of artificial intelligence. Large diffusion models have gained significant attention for their ability to generate photorealistic images and support various tasks. On-device deployment of these models provides benefits such as lower server costs, offline functionality, and improved user privacy. However, common large diffusion models have over 1 billion parameters and pose challenges due to restricted computational and memory resources on devices. We present a series of implementation optimizations for large diffusion models that achieve the fastest reported inference latency to-date (under 12 seconds for Stable Diffusion 1.4 without int8 quantization on Samsung S23 Ultra for a 512x512 image with 20 iterations) on GPU-equipped mobile devices. These enhancements broaden the applicability of generative AI and improve the overall user experience across a wide range of devices. 

**Title:** The Role of AI in Human-AI Creative Writing for Hong Kong Secondary  Students  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11276

**Abstract:** The recent advancement in Natural Language Processing (NLP) capability has led to the development of language models (e.g., ChatGPT) that is capable of generating human-like language. In this study, we explore how language models can be utilized to help the ideation aspect of creative writing. Our empirical findings show that language models play different roles in helping student writers to be more creative, such as the role of a collaborator, a provocateur, etc 

**Title:** Lookahead Diffusion Probabilistic Models for Refining Mean Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11312

**Abstract:** We propose lookahead diffusion probabilistic models (LA-DPMs) to exploit the correlation in the outputs of the deep neural networks (DNNs) over subsequent timesteps in diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) to refine the mean estimation of the conditional Gaussian distributions in the backward process. A typical DPM first obtains an estimate of the original data sample $\boldsymbol{x}$ by feeding the most recent state $\boldsymbol{z}_i$ and index $i$ into the DNN model and then computes the mean vector of the conditional Gaussian distribution for $\boldsymbol{z}_{i-1}$. We propose to calculate a more accurate estimate for $\boldsymbol{x}$ by performing extrapolation on the two estimates of $\boldsymbol{x}$ that are obtained by feeding $(\boldsymbol{z}_{i+1},i+1)$ and $(\boldsymbol{z}_{i},i)$ into the DNN model. The extrapolation can be easily integrated into the backward process of existing DPMs by introducing an additional connection over two consecutive timesteps, and fine-tuning is not required. Extensive experiments showed that plugging in the additional connection into DDPM, DDIM, DEIS, S-PNDM, and high-order DPM-Solvers leads to a significant performance gain in terms of FID score. 

**Title:** A Semi-Supervised Framework for Misinformation Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11318

**Abstract:** The spread of misinformation in social media outlets has become a prevalent societal problem and is the cause of many kinds of social unrest. Curtailing its prevalence is of great importance and machine learning has shown significant promise. However, there are two main challenges when applying machine learning to this problem. First, while much too prevalent in one respect, misinformation, actually, represents only a minor proportion of all the postings seen on social media. Second, labeling the massive amount of data necessary to train a useful classifier becomes impractical. Considering these challenges, we propose a simple semi-supervised learning framework in order to deal with extreme class imbalances that has the advantage, over other approaches, of using actual rather than simulated data to inflate the minority class. We tested our framework on two sets of Covid-related Twitter data and obtained significant improvement in F1-measure on extremely imbalanced scenarios, as compared to simple classical and deep-learning data generation methods such as SMOTE, ADASYN, or GAN-based data generation. 

**Title:** On Accelerating Diffusion-Based Sampling Process via Improved  Integration Approximation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11328

**Abstract:** One popular diffusion-based sampling strategy attempts to solve the reverse ordinary differential equations (ODEs) effectively. The coefficients of the obtained ODE solvers are pre-determined by the ODE formulation, the reverse discrete timesteps, and the employed ODE methods. In this paper, we consider accelerating several popular ODE-based sampling processes by optimizing certain coefficients via improved integration approximation (IIA). At each reverse timestep, we propose to minimize a mean squared error (MSE) function with respect to certain selected coefficients. The MSE is constructed by applying the original ODE solver for a set of fine-grained timesteps which in principle provides a more accurate integration approximation in predicting the next diffusion hidden state. Given a pre-trained diffusion model, the procedure for IIA for a particular number of neural functional evaluations (NFEs) only needs to be conducted once over a batch of samples. The obtained optimal solutions for those selected coefficients via minimum MSE (MMSE) can be restored and reused later on to accelerate the sampling process. Extensive experiments on EDM and DDIM show the IIA technique leads to significant performance gain when the numbers of NFEs are small. 

**Title:** Two Birds, One Stone: A Unified Framework for Joint Learning of Image  and Video Style Transfers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11335

**Abstract:** Current arbitrary style transfer models are limited to either image or video domains. In order to achieve satisfying image and video style transfers, two different models are inevitably required with separate training processes on image and video domains, respectively. In this paper, we show that this can be precluded by introducing UniST, a Unified Style Transfer framework for both images and videos. At the core of UniST is a domain interaction transformer (DIT), which first explores context information within the specific domain and then interacts contextualized domain information for joint learning. In particular, DIT enables exploration of temporal information from videos for the image style transfer task and meanwhile allows rich appearance texture from images for video style transfer, thus leading to mutual benefits. Considering heavy computation of traditional multi-head self-attention, we present a simple yet effective axial multi-head self-attention (AMSA) for DIT, which improves computational efficiency while maintains style transfer performance. To verify the effectiveness of UniST, we conduct extensive experiments on both image and video style transfer tasks and show that UniST performs favorably against state-of-the-art approaches on both tasks. Our code and results will be released. 

**Title:** NaviNeRF: NeRF-based 3D Representation Disentanglement by Latent  Semantic Navigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11342

**Abstract:** 3D representation disentanglement aims to identify, decompose, and manipulate the underlying explanatory factors of 3D data, which helps AI fundamentally understand our 3D world. This task is currently under-explored and poses great challenges: (i) the 3D representations are complex and in general contains much more information than 2D image; (ii) many 3D representations are not well suited for gradient-based optimization, let alone disentanglement. To address these challenges, we use NeRF as a differentiable 3D representation, and introduce a self-supervised Navigation to identify interpretable semantic directions in the latent space. To our best knowledge, this novel method, dubbed NaviNeRF, is the first work to achieve fine-grained 3D disentanglement without any priors or supervisions. Specifically, NaviNeRF is built upon the generative NeRF pipeline, and equipped with an Outer Navigation Branch and an Inner Refinement Branch. They are complementary -- the outer navigation is to identify global-view semantic directions, and the inner refinement dedicates to fine-grained attributes. A synergistic loss is further devised to coordinate two branches. Extensive experiments demonstrate that NaviNeRF has a superior fine-grained 3D disentanglement ability than the previous 3D-aware models. Its performance is also comparable to editing-oriented models relying on semantic or geometry priors. 

**Title:** Detecting Adversarial Faces Using Only Real Face Self-Perturbations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11359

**Abstract:** Adversarial attacks aim to disturb the functionality of a target system by adding specific noise to the input samples, bringing potential threats to security and robustness when applied to facial recognition systems. Although existing defense techniques achieve high accuracy in detecting some specific adversarial faces (adv-faces), new attack methods especially GAN-based attacks with completely different noise patterns circumvent them and reach a higher attack success rate. Even worse, existing techniques require attack data before implementing the defense, making it impractical to defend newly emerging attacks that are unseen to defenders. In this paper, we investigate the intrinsic generality of adv-faces and propose to generate pseudo adv-faces by perturbing real faces with three heuristically designed noise patterns. We are the first to train an adv-face detector using only real faces and their self-perturbations, agnostic to victim facial recognition systems, and agnostic to unseen attacks. By regarding adv-faces as out-of-distribution data, we then naturally introduce a novel cascaded system for adv-face detection, which consists of training data self-perturbations, decision boundary regularization, and a max-pooling-based binary classifier focusing on abnormal local color aberrations. Experiments conducted on LFW and CelebA-HQ datasets with eight gradient-based and two GAN-based attacks validate that our method generalizes to a variety of unseen adversarial attacks. 

**Title:** Uniform convergence of finite element method on Bakhvalov-type mesh for  a 2-D singularly perturbed convection-diffusion problem with exponential  layers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11368

**Abstract:** On Bakhvalov-type mesh, uniform convergence analysis of finite element method for a 2-D singularly perturbed convection-diffusion problem with exponential layers is still an open problem. Previous attempts have been unsuccessful. The primary challenges are the width of the mesh subdomain in the layer adjacent to the transition point, the restriction of the Dirichlet boundary condition, and the structure of exponential layers. To address these challenges, a novel analysis technique is introduced for the first time, which takes full advantage of the characteristics of interpolation and the connection between the smooth function and the layer function on the boundary. Utilizing this technique in conjunction with a new interpolation featuring a simple structure, uniform convergence of optimal order k+1 under an energy norm can be proven for finite element method of any order k. Numerical experiments confirm our theoretical results. 

**Title:** Incomplete Multimodal Learning for Remote Sensing Data Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11381

**Abstract:** The mechanism of connecting multimodal signals through self-attention operation is a key factor in the success of multimodal Transformer networks in remote sensing data fusion tasks. However, traditional approaches assume access to all modalities during both training and inference, which can lead to severe degradation when dealing with modal-incomplete inputs in downstream applications. To address this limitation, our proposed approach introduces a novel model for incomplete multimodal learning in the context of remote sensing data fusion. This approach can be used in both supervised and self-supervised pretraining paradigms and leverages the additional learned fusion tokens in combination with Bi-LSTM attention and masked self-attention mechanisms to collect multimodal signals. The proposed approach employs reconstruction and contrastive loss to facilitate fusion in pre-training while allowing for random modality combinations as inputs in network training. Our approach delivers state-of-the-art performance on two multimodal datasets for tasks such as building instance / semantic segmentation and land-cover mapping tasks when dealing with incomplete inputs during inference. 

**Title:** Transformer-Based LM Surprisal Predicts Human Reading Times Best with  About Two Billion Training Tokens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11389

**Abstract:** Recent psycholinguistic studies have drawn conflicting conclusions about the relationship between the quality of a language model and the ability of its surprisal estimates to predict human reading times, which has been speculated to be due to the large gap in both the amount of training data and model capacity across studies. The current work aims to consolidate these findings by evaluating surprisal estimates from Transformer-based language model variants that vary systematically in the amount of training data and model capacity on their ability to predict human reading times. The results show that surprisal estimates from most variants with contemporary model capacities provide the best fit after seeing about two billion training tokens, after which they begin to diverge from humanlike expectations. Additionally, newly-trained smaller model variants reveal a 'tipping point' at convergence, after which the decrease in language model perplexity begins to result in poorer fits to human reading times. These results suggest that the massive amount of training data is mainly responsible for the poorer fit achieved by surprisal from larger pre-trained language models, and that a certain degree of model capacity is necessary for Transformer-based language models to capture humanlike expectations. 

**Title:** Lightweight Toxicity Detection in Spoken Language: A Transformer-based  Approach for Edge Devices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11408

**Abstract:** Toxicity is a prevalent social behavior that involves the use of hate speech, offensive language, bullying, and abusive speech. While text-based approaches for toxicity detection are common, there is limited research on processing speech signals in the physical world. Detecting toxicity in the physical world is challenging due to the difficulty of integrating AI-capable computers into the environment. We propose a lightweight transformer model based on wav2vec2.0 and optimize it using techniques such as quantization and knowledge distillation. Our model uses multitask learning and achieves an average macro F1-score of 90.3\% and a weighted accuracy of 88\%, outperforming state-of-the-art methods on DeToxy-B and a public dataset. Our results show that quantization reduces the model size by almost 4 times and RAM usage by 3.3\%, with only a 1\% F1 score decrease. Knowledge distillation reduces the model size by 3.7 times, RAM usage by 1.9, and inference time by 2 times, but decreases accuracy by 8\%. Combining both techniques reduces the model size by 14.6 times and RAM usage by around 4.3 times, with a two-fold inference time improvement. Our compact model is the first end-to-end speech-based toxicity detection model based on a lightweight transformer model suitable for deployment in physical spaces. The results show its feasibility for toxicity detection on edge devices in real-world environments. 

**Title:** Conditional Denoising Diffusion for Sequential Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11433

**Abstract:** Generative models have attracted significant interest due to their ability to handle uncertainty by learning the inherent data distributions. However, two prominent generative models, namely Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and Variational AutoEncoders (VAEs), exhibit challenges that impede achieving optimal performance in sequential recommendation tasks. Specifically, GANs suffer from unstable optimization, while VAEs are prone to posterior collapse and over-smoothed generations. The sparse and noisy nature of sequential recommendation further exacerbates these issues. In response to these limitations, we present a conditional denoising diffusion model, which includes a sequence encoder, a cross-attentive denoising decoder, and a step-wise diffuser. This approach streamlines the optimization and generation process by dividing it into easier and tractable steps in a conditional autoregressive manner. Furthermore, we introduce a novel optimization schema that incorporates both cross-divergence loss and contrastive loss. This novel training schema enables the model to generate high-quality sequence/item representations and meanwhile precluding collapse. We conducted comprehensive experiments on four benchmark datasets, and the superior performance achieved by our model attests to its efficacy. 

**Title:** L3Cube-IndicSBERT: A simple approach for learning cross-lingual sentence  representations using multilingual BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11434

**Abstract:** The multilingual Sentence-BERT (SBERT) models map different languages to common representation space and are useful for cross-language similarity and mining tasks. We propose a simple yet effective approach to convert vanilla multilingual BERT models into multilingual sentence BERT models using synthetic corpus. We simply aggregate translated NLI or STS datasets of the low-resource target languages together and perform SBERT-like fine-tuning of the vanilla multilingual BERT model. We show that multilingual BERT models are inherent cross-lingual learners and this simple baseline fine-tuning approach without explicit cross-lingual training yields exceptional cross-lingual properties. We show the efficacy of our approach on 10 major Indic languages and also show the applicability of our approach to non-Indic languages German and French. Using this approach, we further present L3Cube-IndicSBERT, the first multilingual sentence representation model specifically for Indian languages Hindi, Marathi, Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam, Tamil, Gujarati, Odia, Bengali, and Punjabi. The IndicSBERT exhibits strong cross-lingual capabilities and performs significantly better than alternatives like LaBSE, LASER, and paraphrase-multilingual-mpnet-base-v2 on Indic cross-lingual and monolingual sentence similarity tasks. We also release monolingual SBERT models for each of the languages and show that IndicSBERT performs competitively with its monolingual counterparts. These models have been evaluated using embedding similarity scores and classification accuracy. 

**Title:** Fast Diffusion Probabilistic Model Sampling through the lens of Backward  Error Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11446

**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) are a class of powerful generative models. The past few years have witnessed the great success of DDPMs in generating high-fidelity samples. A significant limitation of the DDPMs is the slow sampling procedure. DDPMs generally need hundreds or thousands of sequential function evaluations (steps) of neural networks to generate a sample. This paper aims to develop a fast sampling method for DDPMs requiring much fewer steps while retaining high sample quality. The inference process of DDPMs approximates solving the corresponding diffusion ordinary differential equations (diffusion ODEs) in the continuous limit. This work analyzes how the backward error affects the diffusion ODEs and the sample quality in DDPMs. We propose fast sampling through the \textbf{Restricting Backward Error schedule (RBE schedule)} based on dynamically moderating the long-time backward error. Our method accelerates DDPMs without any further training. Our experiments show that sampling with an RBE schedule generates high-quality samples within only 8 to 20 function evaluations on various benchmark datasets. We achieved 12.01 FID in 8 function evaluations on the ImageNet $128\times128$, and a $20\times$ speedup compared with previous baseline samplers. 

**Title:** Dehazing-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from Hazy Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11448

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has received much attention in recent years due to the impressively high quality in 3D scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, image degradation caused by the scattering of atmospheric light and object light by particles in the atmosphere can significantly decrease the reconstruction quality when shooting scenes in hazy conditions. To address this issue, we propose Dehazing-NeRF, a method that can recover clear NeRF from hazy image inputs. Our method simulates the physical imaging process of hazy images using an atmospheric scattering model, and jointly learns the atmospheric scattering model and a clean NeRF model for both image dehazing and novel view synthesis. Different from previous approaches, Dehazing-NeRF is an unsupervised method with only hazy images as the input, and also does not rely on hand-designed dehazing priors. By jointly combining the depth estimated from the NeRF 3D scene with the atmospheric scattering model, our proposed model breaks through the ill-posed problem of single-image dehazing while maintaining geometric consistency. Besides, to alleviate the degradation of image quality caused by information loss, soft margin consistency regularization, as well as atmospheric consistency and contrast discriminative loss, are addressed during the model training process. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms the simple combination of single-image dehazing and NeRF on both image dehazing and novel view image synthesis. 

**Title:** Dilated-UNet: A Fast and Accurate Medical Image Segmentation Approach  using a Dilated Transformer and U-Net Architecture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11450

**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation is crucial for the development of computer-aided diagnostic and therapeutic systems, but still faces numerous difficulties. In recent years, the commonly used encoder-decoder architecture based on CNNs has been applied effectively in medical image segmentation, but has limitations in terms of learning global context and spatial relationships. Some researchers have attempted to incorporate transformers into both the decoder and encoder components, with promising results, but this approach still requires further improvement due to its high computational complexity. This paper introduces Dilated-UNet, which combines a Dilated Transformer block with the U-Net architecture for accurate and fast medical image segmentation. Image patches are transformed into tokens and fed into the U-shaped encoder-decoder architecture, with skip-connections for local-global semantic feature learning. The encoder uses a hierarchical Dilated Transformer with a combination of Neighborhood Attention and Dilated Neighborhood Attention Transformer to extract local and sparse global attention. The results of our experiments show that Dilated-UNet outperforms other models on several challenging medical image segmentation datasets, such as ISIC and Synapse. 

**Title:** 3D-IntPhys: Towards More Generalized 3D-grounded Visual Intuitive  Physics under Challenging Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11470

**Abstract:** Given a visual scene, humans have strong intuitions about how a scene can evolve over time under given actions. The intuition, often termed visual intuitive physics, is a critical ability that allows us to make effective plans to manipulate the scene to achieve desired outcomes without relying on extensive trial and error. In this paper, we present a framework capable of learning 3D-grounded visual intuitive physics models from videos of complex scenes with fluids. Our method is composed of a conditional Neural Radiance Field (NeRF)-style visual frontend and a 3D point-based dynamics prediction backend, using which we can impose strong relational and structural inductive bias to capture the structure of the underlying environment. Unlike existing intuitive point-based dynamics works that rely on the supervision of dense point trajectory from simulators, we relax the requirements and only assume access to multi-view RGB images and (imperfect) instance masks acquired using color prior. This enables the proposed model to handle scenarios where accurate point estimation and tracking are hard or impossible. We generate datasets including three challenging scenarios involving fluid, granular materials, and rigid objects in the simulation. The datasets do not include any dense particle information so most previous 3D-based intuitive physics pipelines can barely deal with that. We show our model can make long-horizon future predictions by learning from raw images and significantly outperforms models that do not employ an explicit 3D representation space. We also show that once trained, our model can achieve strong generalization in complex scenarios under extrapolate settings. 

**Title:** Vision Transformers, a new approach for high-resolution and large-scale  mapping of canopy heights  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11487

**Abstract:** Accurate and timely monitoring of forest canopy heights is critical for assessing forest dynamics, biodiversity, carbon sequestration as well as forest degradation and deforestation. Recent advances in deep learning techniques, coupled with the vast amount of spaceborne remote sensing data offer an unprecedented opportunity to map canopy height at high spatial and temporal resolutions. Current techniques for wall-to-wall canopy height mapping correlate remotely sensed 2D information from optical and radar sensors to the vertical structure of trees using LiDAR measurements. While studies using deep learning algorithms have shown promising performances for the accurate mapping of canopy heights, they have limitations due to the type of architectures and loss functions employed. Moreover, mapping canopy heights over tropical forests remains poorly studied, and the accurate height estimation of tall canopies is a challenge due to signal saturation from optical and radar sensors, persistent cloud covers and sometimes the limited penetration capabilities of LiDARs. Here, we map heights at 10 m resolution across the diverse landscape of Ghana with a new vision transformer (ViT) model optimized concurrently with a classification (discrete) and a regression (continuous) loss function. This model achieves better accuracy than previously used convolutional based approaches (ConvNets) optimized with only a continuous loss function. The ViT model results show that our proposed discrete/continuous loss significantly increases the sensitivity for very tall trees (i.e., > 35m), for which other approaches show saturation effects. The height maps generated by the ViT also have better ground sampling distance and better sensitivity to sparse vegetation in comparison to a convolutional model. Our ViT model has a RMSE of 3.12m in comparison to a reference dataset while the ConvNet model has a RMSE of 4.3m. 

**Title:** Physics-guided generative adversarial network to learn physical models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11488

**Abstract:** This short note describes the concept of guided training of deep neural networks (DNNs) to learn physically reasonable solutions. DNNs are being widely used to predict phenomena in physics and mechanics. One of the issues of DNNs is that their output does not always satisfy physical equations. One approach to consider physical equations is adding a residual of equations into the loss function; this is called physics-informed neural network (PINN). One feature of PINNs is that the physical equations and corresponding residual must be implemented as part of a neural network model. In addition, the residual does not always converge to a small value. The proposed model is a physics-guided generative adversarial network (PG-GAN) that uses a GAN architecture in which physical equations are used to judge whether the neural network's output is consistent with physics. The proposed method was applied to a simple problem to assess its potential usability. 

**Title:** Boosting Theory-of-Mind Performance in Large Language Models via  Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11490

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) excel in many tasks in 2023, but they still face challenges in complex reasoning. Theory-of-mind (ToM) tasks, which require understanding agents' beliefs, goals, and mental states, are essential for common-sense reasoning involving humans, making it crucial to enhance LLM performance in this area. This study measures the ToM performance of GPT-4 and three GPT-3.5 variants (Davinci-2, Davinci-3, GPT-3.5-Turbo), and investigates the effectiveness of in-context learning in improving their ToM comprehension. We evaluated prompts featuring two-shot chain of thought reasoning and step-by-step thinking instructions. We found that LLMs trained with Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) (all models excluding Davinci-2) improved their ToM accuracy via in-context learning. GPT-4 performed best in zero-shot settings, reaching nearly 80% ToM accuracy, but still fell short of the 87% human accuracy on the test set. However, when supplied with prompts for in-context learning, all RLHF-trained LLMs exceeded 80% ToM accuracy, with GPT-4 reaching 100%. These results demonstrate that appropriate prompting enhances LLM ToM reasoning, and they underscore the context-dependent nature of LLM cognitive capacities. 

**Title:** Machine learning framework for end-to-end implementation of Incident  duration prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11507

**Abstract:** Traffic congestion caused by non-recurring incidents such as vehicle crashes and debris is a key issue for Traffic Management Centers (TMCs). Clearing incidents in a timely manner is essential for improving safety and reducing delays and emissions for the traveling public. However, TMCs and other responders face a challenge in predicting the duration of incidents (until the roadway is clear), making decisions of what resources to deploy difficult. To address this problem, this research developed an analytical framework and end-to-end machine-learning solution for predicting incident duration based on information available as soon as an incident report is received. Quality predictions of incident duration can help TMCs and other responders take a proactive approach in deploying responder services such as tow trucks, maintenance crews or activating alternative routes. The predictions use a combination of classification and regression machine learning modules. The performance of the developed solution has been evaluated based on the Mean Absolute Error (MAE), or deviation from the actual incident duration as well as Area Under the Curve (AUC) and Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE). The results showed that the framework significantly improved incident duration prediction compared to methods from previous research. 

**Title:** Exploring Challenges of Deploying BERT-based NLP Models in  Resource-Constrained Embedded Devices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11520

**Abstract:** BERT-based neural architectures have established themselves as popular state-of-the-art baselines for many downstream NLP tasks. However, these architectures are data-hungry and consume a lot of memory and energy, often hindering their deployment in many real-time, resource-constrained applications. Existing lighter versions of BERT (eg. DistilBERT and TinyBERT) often cannot perform well on complex NLP tasks. More importantly, from a designer's perspective, it is unclear what is the "right" BERT-based architecture to use for a given NLP task that can strike the optimal trade-off between the resources available and the minimum accuracy desired by the end user. System engineers have to spend a lot of time conducting trial-and-error experiments to find a suitable answer to this question. This paper presents an exploratory study of BERT-based models under different resource constraints and accuracy budgets to derive empirical observations about this resource/accuracy trade-offs. Our findings can help designers to make informed choices among alternative BERT-based architectures for embedded systems, thus saving significant development time and effort. 

**Title:** TransFlow: Transformer as Flow Learner  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11523

**Abstract:** Optical flow is an indispensable building block for various important computer vision tasks, including motion estimation, object tracking, and disparity measurement. In this work, we propose TransFlow, a pure transformer architecture for optical flow estimation. Compared to dominant CNN-based methods, TransFlow demonstrates three advantages. First, it provides more accurate correlation and trustworthy matching in flow estimation by utilizing spatial self-attention and cross-attention mechanisms between adjacent frames to effectively capture global dependencies; Second, it recovers more compromised information (e.g., occlusion and motion blur) in flow estimation through long-range temporal association in dynamic scenes; Third, it enables a concise self-learning paradigm and effectively eliminate the complex and laborious multi-stage pre-training procedures. We achieve the state-of-the-art results on the Sintel, KITTI-15, as well as several downstream tasks, including video object detection, interpolation and stabilization. For its efficacy, we hope TransFlow could serve as a flexible baseline for optical flow estimation. 

**Title:** Differentiate ChatGPT-generated and Human-written Medical Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11567

**Abstract:** Background: Large language models such as ChatGPT are capable of generating grammatically perfect and human-like text content, and a large number of ChatGPT-generated texts have appeared on the Internet. However, medical texts such as clinical notes and diagnoses require rigorous validation, and erroneous medical content generated by ChatGPT could potentially lead to disinformation that poses significant harm to healthcare and the general public. 

**Title:** Diffusion Model for GPS Trajectory Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11582

**Abstract:** With the deployment of GPS-enabled devices and data acquisition technology, the massively generated GPS trajectory data provide a core support for advancing spatial-temporal data mining research. Nonetheless, GPS trajectories comprise personal geo-location information, rendering inevitable privacy concerns on plain data. One promising solution to this problem is trajectory generation, replacing the original data with the generated privacy-free ones. However, owing to the complex and stochastic behavior of human activities, generating high-quality trajectories is still in its infancy. To achieve the objective, we propose a diffusion-based trajectory generation (Diff-Traj) framework, effectively integrating the generation capability of the diffusion model and learning from the spatial-temporal features of trajectories. Specifically, we gradually convert real trajectories to noise through a forward trajectory noising process. Then, Diff-Traj reconstructs forged trajectories from the noise by a reverse trajectory denoising process. In addition, we design a trajectory UNet (Traj-UNet) structure to extract trajectory features for noise level prediction during the reverse process. Experiments on two real-world datasets show that Diff-Traj can be intuitively applied to generate high-quality trajectories while retaining the original distribution. 

**Title:** LaMD: Latent Motion Diffusion for Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11603

**Abstract:** Generating coherent and natural movement is the key challenge in video generation. This research proposes to condense video generation into a problem of motion generation, to improve the expressiveness of motion and make video generation more manageable. This can be achieved by breaking down the video generation process into latent motion generation and video reconstruction. We present a latent motion diffusion (LaMD) framework, which consists of a motion-decomposed video autoencoder and a diffusion-based motion generator, to implement this idea. Through careful design, the motion-decomposed video autoencoder can compress patterns in movement into a concise latent motion representation. Meanwhile, the diffusion-based motion generator is able to efficiently generate realistic motion on a continuous latent space under multi-modal conditions, at a cost that is similar to that of image diffusion models. Results show that LaMD generates high-quality videos with a wide range of motions, from stochastic dynamics to highly controllable movements. It achieves new state-of-the-art performance on benchmark datasets, including BAIR, Landscape and CATER-GENs, for Image-to-Video (I2V) and Text-Image-to-Video (TI2V) generation. The source code of LaMD will be made available soon. 

**Title:** PiClick: Picking the desired mask in click-based interactive  segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11609

**Abstract:** Click-based interactive segmentation enables productive pixel-level annotation and image editing with simple user clicks, whereas target ambiguity remains a problem hindering precise segmentation. That is, in scenes with rich context, one click may refer to multiple potential targets residing in corresponding masks, while most interactive segmentors can only generate one single mask and fail to capture the rich context. To resolve target ambiguity, we here propose PiClick to produce semantically diversified masks. PiClick leverages a transformer network design wherein mutually interactive mask queries are integrated to infuse target priors. Moreover, a Target Reasoning Module is designed in PiClick to automatically imply the best-matched mask from all proposals, significantly relieving target ambiguity as well as extra human intervention. Extensive experiments conducted on all 9 interactive segmentation datasets not only demonstrate the state-of-the-art segmentation performance of PiClick, but also reduces human interventions with multiple proposal generation and target reasoning. To promote direct usage and future endeavors, we release the source code of PiClick together with a plug-and-play annotation tool at https://github.com/cilinyan/PiClick. 

**Title:** Evaluating ChatGPT's Information Extraction Capabilities: An Assessment  of Performance, Explainability, Calibration, and Faithfulness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11633

**Abstract:** The capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT to comprehend user intent and provide reasonable responses has made them extremely popular lately. In this paper, we focus on assessing the overall ability of ChatGPT using 7 fine-grained information extraction (IE) tasks. Specially, we present the systematically analysis by measuring ChatGPT's performance, explainability, calibration, and faithfulness, and resulting in 15 keys from either the ChatGPT or domain experts. Our findings reveal that ChatGPT's performance in Standard-IE setting is poor, but it surprisingly exhibits excellent performance in the OpenIE setting, as evidenced by human evaluation. In addition, our research indicates that ChatGPT provides high-quality and trustworthy explanations for its decisions. However, there is an issue of ChatGPT being overconfident in its predictions, which resulting in low calibration. Furthermore, ChatGPT demonstrates a high level of faithfulness to the original text in the majority of cases. We manually annotate and release the test sets of 7 fine-grained IE tasks contains 14 datasets to further promote the research. The datasets and code are available at https://github.com/pkuserc/ChatGPT_for_IE. 

**Title:** Child Face Recognition at Scale: Synthetic Data Generation and  Performance Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11685

**Abstract:** We address the need for a large-scale database of children's faces by using generative adversarial networks (GANs) and face age progression (FAP) models to synthesize a realistic dataset referred to as HDA-SynChildFaces. To this end, we proposed a processing pipeline that initially utilizes StyleGAN3 to sample adult subjects, which are subsequently progressed to children of varying ages using InterFaceGAN. Intra-subject variations, such as facial expression and pose, are created by further manipulating the subjects in their latent space. Additionally, the presented pipeline allows to evenly distribute the races of subjects, allowing to generate a balanced and fair dataset with respect to race distribution. The created HDA-SynChildFaces consists of 1,652 subjects and a total of 188,832 images, each subject being present at various ages and with many different intra-subject variations. Subsequently, we evaluates the performance of various facial recognition systems on the generated database and compare the results of adults and children at different ages. The study reveals that children consistently perform worse than adults, on all tested systems, and the degradation in performance is proportional to age. Additionally, our study uncovers some biases in the recognition systems, with Asian and Black subjects and females performing worse than White and Latino Hispanic subjects and males. 

**Title:** Finding Failure-Inducing Test Cases with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11686

**Abstract:** Automatically detecting software failures is an important task and a longstanding challenge. It requires finding failure-inducing test cases whose test input can trigger the software's fault, and constructing an automated oracle to detect the software's incorrect behaviors. Recent advancement of large language models (LLMs) motivates us to study how far this challenge can be addressed by ChatGPT, a state-of-the-art LLM. Unfortunately, our study shows that ChatGPT has a low probability (28.8%) of finding correct failure-inducing test cases for buggy programs. A possible reason is that finding failure-inducing test cases requires analyzing the subtle code differences between a buggy program and its correct version. When these two versions have similar syntax, ChatGPT is weak at recognizing subtle code differences. Our insight is that ChatGPT's performance can be substantially enhanced when ChatGPT is guided to focus on the subtle code difference. We have an interesting observation that ChatGPT is effective in inferring the intended behaviors of a buggy program. The intended behavior can be leveraged to synthesize programs, in order to make the subtle code difference between a buggy program and its correct version (i.e., the synthesized program) explicit. Driven by this observation, we propose a novel approach that synergistically combines ChatGPT and differential testing to find failure-inducing test cases. We evaluate our approach on Quixbugs (a benchmark of buggy programs), and compare it with state-of-the-art baselines, including direct use of ChatGPT and Pynguin. The experimental result shows that our approach has a much higher probability (77.8%) of finding correct failure-inducing test cases, 2.7X as the best baseline. 

**Title:** Controlled physics-informed data generation for deep learning-based  remaining useful life prediction under unseen operation conditions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11702

**Abstract:** Limited availability of representative time-to-failure (TTF) trajectories either limits the performance of deep learning (DL)-based approaches on remaining useful life (RUL) prediction in practice or even precludes their application. Generating synthetic data that is physically plausible is a promising way to tackle this challenge. In this study, a novel hybrid framework combining the controlled physics-informed data generation approach with a deep learning-based prediction model for prognostics is proposed. In the proposed framework, a new controlled physics-informed generative adversarial network (CPI-GAN) is developed to generate synthetic degradation trajectories that are physically interpretable and diverse. Five basic physics constraints are proposed as the controllable settings in the generator. A physics-informed loss function with penalty is designed as the regularization term, which ensures that the changing trend of system health state recorded in the synthetic data is consistent with the underlying physical laws. Then, the generated synthetic data is used as input of the DL-based prediction model to obtain the RUL estimations. The proposed framework is evaluated based on new Commercial Modular Aero-Propulsion System Simulation (N-CMAPSS), a turbofan engine prognostics dataset where a limited avail-ability of TTF trajectories is assumed. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework is able to generate synthetic TTF trajectories that are consistent with underlying degradation trends. The generated trajectories enable to significantly improve the accuracy of RUL predictions. 

**Title:** Class-Specific Variational Auto-Encoder for Content-Based Image  Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11734

**Abstract:** Using a discriminative representation obtained by supervised deep learning methods showed promising results on diverse Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) problems. However, existing methods exploiting labels during training try to discriminate all available classes, which is not ideal in cases where the retrieval problem focuses on a class of interest. In this paper, we propose a regularized loss for Variational Auto-Encoders (VAEs) forcing the model to focus on a given class of interest. As a result, the model learns to discriminate the data belonging to the class of interest from any other possibility, making the learnt latent space of the VAE suitable for class-specific retrieval tasks. The proposed Class-Specific Variational Auto-Encoder (CS-VAE) is evaluated on three public and one custom datasets, and its performance is compared with that of three related VAE-based methods. Experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms its competition in both in-domain and out-of-domain retrieval problems. 

**Title:** Score-Based Diffusion Models as Principled Priors for Inverse Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11751

**Abstract:** It is important in computational imaging to understand the uncertainty of images reconstructed from imperfect measurements. We propose turning score-based diffusion models into principled priors (``score-based priors'') for analyzing a posterior of images given measurements. Previously, probabilistic priors were limited to handcrafted regularizers and simple distributions. In this work, we empirically validate the theoretically-proven probability function of a score-based diffusion model. We show how to sample from resulting posteriors by using this probability function for variational inference. Our results, including experiments on denoising, deblurring, and interferometric imaging, suggest that score-based priors enable principled inference with a sophisticated, data-driven image prior. 

**Title:** Directed Acyclic Transformer Pre-training for High-quality  Non-autoregressive Text Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11791

**Abstract:** Non-AutoRegressive (NAR) text generation models have drawn much attention because of their significantly faster decoding speed and good generation quality in machine translation. However, in a wider range of text generation tasks, existing NAR models lack proper pre-training, making them still far behind the pre-trained autoregressive models. In this paper, we propose Pre-trained Directed Acyclic Transformer (PreDAT) and a novel pre-training task to promote prediction consistency in NAR generation. Experiments on five text generation tasks show that our PreDAT remarkably outperforms existing pre-trained NAR models (+4.2 scores on average) and even achieves better results than pre-trained autoregressive baselines in n-gram-based metrics, along with 17 times speedup in throughput. Further analysis shows that PreDAT benefits from the unbiased prediction order that alleviates the error accumulation problem in autoregressive generation, which provides new insights into the advantages of NAR generation. 

**Title:** PARAGRAPH2GRAPH: A GNN-based framework for layout paragraph analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11810

**Abstract:** Document layout analysis has a wide range of requirements across various domains, languages, and business scenarios. However, most current state-of-the-art algorithms are language-dependent, with architectures that rely on transformer encoders or language-specific text encoders, such as BERT, for feature extraction. These approaches are limited in their ability to handle very long documents due to input sequence length constraints and are closely tied to language-specific tokenizers. Additionally, training a cross-language text encoder can be challenging due to the lack of labeled multilingual document datasets that consider privacy. Furthermore, some layout tasks require a clean separation between different layout components without overlap, which can be difficult for image segmentation-based algorithms to achieve. In this paper, we present Paragraph2Graph, a language-independent graph neural network (GNN)-based model that achieves competitive results on common document layout datasets while being adaptable to business scenarios with strict separation. With only 19.95 million parameters, our model is suitable for industrial applications, particularly in multi-language scenarios. 

**Title:** NoiseTrans: Point Cloud Denoising with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11812

**Abstract:** Point clouds obtained from capture devices or 3D reconstruction techniques are often noisy and interfere with downstream tasks. The paper aims to recover the underlying surface of noisy point clouds. We design a novel model, NoiseTrans, which uses transformer encoder architecture for point cloud denoising. Specifically, we obtain structural similarity of point-based point clouds with the assistance of the transformer's core self-attention mechanism. By expressing the noisy point cloud as a set of unordered vectors, we convert point clouds into point embeddings and employ Transformer to generate clean point clouds. To make the Transformer preserve details when sensing the point cloud, we design the Local Point Attention to prevent the point cloud from being over-smooth. In addition, we also propose sparse encoding, which enables the Transformer to better perceive the structural relationships of the point cloud and improve the denoising performance. Experiments show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art methods in various datasets and noise environments. 

**Title:** Master: Meta Style Transformer for Controllable Zero-Shot and Few-Shot  Artistic Style Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11818

**Abstract:** Transformer-based models achieve favorable performance in artistic style transfer recently thanks to its global receptive field and powerful multi-head/layer attention operations. Nevertheless, the over-paramerized multi-layer structure increases parameters significantly and thus presents a heavy burden for training. Moreover, for the task of style transfer, vanilla Transformer that fuses content and style features by residual connections is prone to content-wise distortion. In this paper, we devise a novel Transformer model termed as \emph{Master} specifically for style transfer. On the one hand, in the proposed model, different Transformer layers share a common group of parameters, which (1) reduces the total number of parameters, (2) leads to more robust training convergence, and (3) is readily to control the degree of stylization via tuning the number of stacked layers freely during inference. On the other hand, different from the vanilla version, we adopt a learnable scaling operation on content features before content-style feature interaction, which better preserves the original similarity between a pair of content features while ensuring the stylization quality. We also propose a novel meta learning scheme for the proposed model so that it can not only work in the typical setting of arbitrary style transfer, but also adaptable to the few-shot setting, by only fine-tuning the Transformer encoder layer in the few-shot stage for one specific style. Text-guided few-shot style transfer is firstly achieved with the proposed framework. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of Master under both zero-shot and few-shot style transfer settings. 

**Title:** Hierarchical Diffusion Autoencoders and Disentangled Image Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11829

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have attained impressive visual quality for image synthesis. However, how to interpret and manipulate the latent space of diffusion models has not been extensively explored. Prior work diffusion autoencoders encode the semantic representations into a semantic latent code, which fails to reflect the rich information of details and the intrinsic feature hierarchy. To mitigate those limitations, we propose Hierarchical Diffusion Autoencoders (HDAE) that exploit the fine-grained-to-abstract and lowlevel-to-high-level feature hierarchy for the latent space of diffusion models. The hierarchical latent space of HDAE inherently encodes different abstract levels of semantics and provides more comprehensive semantic representations. In addition, we propose a truncated-feature-based approach for disentangled image manipulation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach with extensive experiments and applications on image reconstruction, style mixing, controllable interpolation, detail-preserving and disentangled image manipulation, and multi-modal semantic image synthesis. 

**Title:** Gen-NeRF: Efficient and Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields via  Algorithm-Hardware Co-Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11842

**Abstract:** Novel view synthesis is an essential functionality for enabling immersive experiences in various Augmented- and Virtual-Reality (AR/VR) applications, for which generalizable Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have gained increasing popularity thanks to their cross-scene generalization capability. Despite their promise, the real-device deployment of generalizable NeRFs is bottlenecked by their prohibitive complexity due to the required massive memory accesses to acquire scene features, causing their ray marching process to be memory-bounded. To this end, we propose Gen-NeRF, an algorithm-hardware co-design framework dedicated to generalizable NeRF acceleration, which for the first time enables real-time generalizable NeRFs. On the algorithm side, Gen-NeRF integrates a coarse-then-focus sampling strategy, leveraging the fact that different regions of a 3D scene contribute differently to the rendered pixel, to enable sparse yet effective sampling. On the hardware side, Gen-NeRF highlights an accelerator micro-architecture to maximize the data reuse opportunities among different rays by making use of their epipolar geometric relationship. Furthermore, our Gen-NeRF accelerator features a customized dataflow to enhance data locality during point-to-hardware mapping and an optimized scene feature storage strategy to minimize memory bank conflicts. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our proposed Gen-NeRF framework in enabling real-time and generalizable novel view synthesis. 

**Title:** Can we Trust Chatbots for now? Accuracy, reproducibility, traceability;  a Case Study on Leonardo da Vinci's Contribution to Astronomy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11852

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLM) are studied. Applications to chatbots and education are considered. A case study on Leonardo's contribution to astronomy is presented. Major problems with accuracy, reproducibility and traceability of answers are reported for ChatGPT, GPT-4, BLOOM and Google Bard. Possible reasons for problems are discussed and some solutions are proposed. 

**Title:** Generation-driven Contrastive Self-training for Zero-shot Text  Classification with Instruction-tuned GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11872

**Abstract:** Moreover, GPT-based zero-shot classification models tend to make independent predictions over test instances, which can be sub-optimal as the instance correlations and the decision boundaries in the target space are ignored. To address these difficulties and limitations, we propose a new approach to zero-shot text classification, namely \ourmodelshort, which leverages the strong generative power of GPT to assist in training a smaller, more adaptable, and efficient sentence encoder classifier with contrastive self-training. Specifically, GenCo applies GPT in two ways: firstly, it generates multiple augmented texts for each input instance to enhance the semantic embedding of the instance and improve the mapping to relevant labels; secondly, it generates augmented texts conditioned on the predicted label during self-training, which makes the generative process tailored to the decision boundaries in the target space. In our experiments, GenCo outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods on multiple benchmark datasets, even when only limited in-domain text data is available. 

**Title:** The State of the Art in transformer fault diagnosis with artificial  intelligence and Dissolved Gas Analysis: A Review of the Literature  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11880

**Abstract:** Transformer fault diagnosis (TFD) is a critical aspect of power system maintenance and management. This review paper provides a comprehensive overview of the current state of the art in TFD using artificial intelligence (AI) and dissolved gas analysis (DGA). The paper presents an analysis of recent advancements in this field, including the use of deep learning algorithms and advanced data analytics techniques, and their potential impact on TFD and the power industry as a whole. The review also highlights the benefits and limitations of different approaches to transformer fault diagnosis, including rule-based systems, expert systems, neural networks, and machine learning algorithms. Overall, this review aims to provide valuable insights into the importance of TFD and the role of AI in ensuring the reliable operation of power systems. 

**Title:** Transformer-based stereo-aware 3D object detection from binocular images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11906

**Abstract:** Vision Transformers have shown promising progress in various object detection tasks, including monocular 2D/3D detection and surround-view 3D detection. However, when used in essential and classic stereo 3D object detection, directly adopting those surround-view Transformers leads to slow convergence and significant precision drops. We argue that one of the causes of this defect is that the surround-view Transformers do not consider the stereo-specific image correspondence information. In a surround-view system, the overlapping areas are small, and thus correspondence is not a primary issue. In this paper, we explore the model design of vision Transformers in stereo 3D object detection, focusing particularly on extracting and encoding the task-specific image correspondence information. To achieve this goal, we present TS3D, a Transformer-based Stereo-aware 3D object detector. In the TS3D, a Disparity-Aware Positional Encoding (DAPE) model is proposed to embed the image correspondence information into stereo features. The correspondence is encoded as normalized disparity and is used in conjunction with sinusoidal 2D positional encoding to provide the location information of the 3D scene. To extract enriched multi-scale stereo features, we propose a Stereo Reserving Feature Pyramid Network (SRFPN). The SRFPN is designed to reserve the correspondence information while fusing intra-scale and aggregating cross-scale stereo features. Our proposed TS3D achieves a 41.29% Moderate Car detection average precision on the KITTI test set and takes 88 ms to detect objects from each binocular image pair. It is competitive with advanced counterparts in terms of both precision and inference speed. 

**Title:** KInITVeraAI at SemEval-2023 Task 3: Simple yet Powerful Multilingual  Fine-Tuning for Persuasion Techniques Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11924

**Abstract:** This paper presents the best-performing solution to the SemEval 2023 Task 3 on the subtask 3 dedicated to persuasion techniques detection. Due to a high multilingual character of the input data and a large number of 23 predicted labels (causing a lack of labelled data for some language-label combinations), we opted for fine-tuning pre-trained transformer-based language models. Conducting multiple experiments, we find the best configuration, which consists of large multilingual model (XLM-RoBERTa large) trained jointly on all input data, with carefully calibrated confidence thresholds for seen and surprise languages separately. Our final system performed the best on 6 out of 9 languages (including two surprise languages) and achieved highly competitive results on the remaining three languages. 

**Title:** Data-driven modelling of brain activity using neural networks, Diffusion  Maps, and the Koopman operator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11925

**Abstract:** We propose a machine-learning approach to model long-term out-of-sample dynamics of brain activity from task-dependent fMRI data. Our approach is a three stage one. First, we exploit Diffusion maps (DMs) to discover a set of variables that parametrize the low-dimensional manifold on which the emergent high-dimensional fMRI time series evolve. Then, we construct reduced-order-models (ROMs) on the embedded manifold via two techniques: Feedforward Neural Networks (FNNs) and the Koopman operator. Finally, for predicting the out-of-sample long-term dynamics of brain activity in the ambient fMRI space, we solve the pre-image problem coupling DMs with Geometric Harmonics (GH) when using FNNs and the Koopman modes per se. For our illustrations, we have assessed the performance of the two proposed schemes using a benchmark fMRI dataset with recordings during a visuo-motor task. The results suggest that just a few (for the particular task, five) non-linear coordinates of the high-dimensional fMRI time series provide a good basis for modelling and out-of-sample prediction of the brain activity. Furthermore, we show that the proposed approaches outperform the one-step ahead predictions of the naive random walk model, which, in contrast to our scheme, relies on the knowledge of the signals in the previous time step. Importantly, we show that the proposed Koopman operator approach provides, for any practical purposes, equivalent results to the FNN-GH approach, thus bypassing the need to train a non-linear map and to use GH to extrapolate predictions in the ambient fMRI space; one can use instead the low-frequency truncation of the DMs function space of L^2-integrable functions, to predict the entire list of coordinate functions in the fMRI space and to solve the pre-image problem. 

**Title:** Is ChatGPT the Ultimate Programming Assistant -- How far is it?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11938

**Abstract:** The recent progress in generative AI techniques has significantly influenced software engineering, as AI-driven methods tackle common developer challenges such as code synthesis from descriptions, program repair, and natural language summaries for existing programs. Large-scale language models (LLMs), like OpenAI's Codex, are increasingly adopted in AI-driven software engineering. ChatGPT, another LLM, has gained considerable attention for its potential as a bot for discussing source code, suggesting changes, providing descriptions, and generating code. To evaluate the practicality of LLMs as programming assistant bots, it is essential to examine their performance on unseen problems and various tasks. 

**Title:** Spikingformer: Spike-driven Residual Learning for Transformer-based  Spiking Neural Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11954

**Abstract:** Spiking neural networks (SNNs) offer a promising energy-efficient alternative to artificial neural networks, due to their event-driven spiking computation. However, state-of-the-art deep SNNs (including Spikformer and SEW ResNet) suffer from non-spike computations (integer-float multiplications) caused by the structure of their residual connection. These non-spike computations increase SNNs' power consumption and make them unsuitable for deployment on mainstream neuromorphic hardware, which only supports spike operations. In this paper, we propose a hardware-friendly spike-driven residual learning architecture for SNNs to avoid non-spike computations. Based on this residual design, we develop Spikingformer, a pure transformer-based spiking neural network. We evaluate Spikingformer on ImageNet, CIFAR10, CIFAR100, CIFAR10-DVS and DVS128 Gesture datasets, and demonstrated that Spikingformer outperforms the state-of-the-art in directly trained pure SNNs as a novel advanced backbone (74.79$\%$ top-1 accuracy on ImageNet, + 1.41$\%$ compared with Spikformer). Furthermore, our experiments verify that Spikingformer effectively avoids non-spike computations and reduces energy consumption by 60.34$\%$ compared with Spikformer on ImageNet. To our best knowledge, this is the first time that a pure event-driven transformer-based SNN has been developed. 

**Title:** UTSGAN: Unseen Transition Suss GAN for Transition-Aware Image-to-image  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11955

**Abstract:** In the field of Image-to-Image (I2I) translation, ensuring consistency between input images and their translated results is a key requirement for producing high-quality and desirable outputs. Previous I2I methods have relied on result consistency, which enforces consistency between the translated results and the ground truth output, to achieve this goal. However, result consistency is limited in its ability to handle complex and unseen attribute changes in translation tasks. To address this issue, we introduce a transition-aware approach to I2I translation, where the data translation mapping is explicitly parameterized with a transition variable, allowing for the modelling of unobserved translations triggered by unseen transitions. Furthermore, we propose the use of transition consistency, defined on the transition variable, to enable regularization of consistency on unobserved translations, which is omitted in previous works. Based on these insights, we present Unseen Transition Suss GAN (UTSGAN), a generative framework that constructs a manifold for the transition with a stochastic transition encoder and coherently regularizes and generalizes result consistency and transition consistency on both training and unobserved translations with tailor-designed constraints. Extensive experiments on four different I2I tasks performed on five different datasets demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed UTSGAN in performing consistent translations. 

**Title:** ThreatCrawl: A BERT-based Focused Crawler for the Cybersecurity Domain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11960

**Abstract:** Publicly available information contains valuable information for Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI). This can be used to prevent attacks that have already taken place on other systems. Ideally, only the initial attack succeeds and all subsequent ones are detected and stopped. But while there are different standards to exchange this information, a lot of it is shared in articles or blog posts in non-standardized ways. Manually scanning through multiple online portals and news pages to discover new threats and extracting them is a time-consuming task. To automize parts of this scanning process, multiple papers propose extractors that use Natural Language Processing (NLP) to extract Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) from documents. However, while this already solves the problem of extracting the information out of documents, the search for these documents is rarely considered. In this paper, a new focused crawler is proposed called ThreatCrawl, which uses Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT)-based models to classify documents and adapt its crawling path dynamically. While ThreatCrawl has difficulties to classify the specific type of Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) named in texts, e.g., IOC content, it can successfully find relevant documents and modify its path accordingly. It yields harvest rates of up to 52%, which are, to the best of our knowledge, better than the current state of the art. 

**Title:** CHEAT: A Large-scale Dataset for Detecting ChatGPT-writtEn AbsTracts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12008

**Abstract:** The powerful ability of ChatGPT has caused widespread concern in the academic community. Malicious users could synthesize dummy academic content through ChatGPT, which is extremely harmful to academic rigor and originality. The need to develop ChatGPT-written content detection algorithms call for large-scale datasets. In this paper, we initially investigate the possible negative impact of ChatGPT on academia,and present a large-scale CHatGPT-writtEn AbsTract dataset (CHEAT) to support the development of detection algorithms. In particular, the ChatGPT-written abstract dataset contains 35,304 synthetic abstracts, with Generation, Polish, and Mix as prominent representatives. Based on these data, we perform a thorough analysis of the existing text synthesis detection algorithms. We show that ChatGPT-written abstracts are detectable, while the detection difficulty increases with human involvement. 

**Title:** SocialDial: A Benchmark for Socially-Aware Dialogue Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12026

**Abstract:** Dialogue systems have been widely applied in many scenarios and are now more powerful and ubiquitous than ever before. With large neural models and massive available data, current dialogue systems have access to more knowledge than any people in their life. However, current dialogue systems still do not perform at a human level. One major gap between conversational agents and humans lies in their abilities to be aware of social norms. The development of socially-aware dialogue systems is impeded due to the lack of resources. In this paper, we present the first socially-aware dialogue corpus - SocialDial, based on Chinese social culture. SocialDial consists of two parts: 1,563 multi-turn dialogues between two human speakers with fine-grained labels, and 4,870 synthetic conversations generated by ChatGPT. The human corpus covers five categories of social norms, which have 14 sub-categories in total. Specifically, it contains social factor annotations including social relation, context, social distance, and social norms. However, collecting sufficient socially-aware dialogues is costly. Thus, we harness the power of ChatGPT and devise an ontology-based synthetic data generation framework. This framework is able to generate synthetic data at scale. To ensure the quality of synthetic dialogues, we design several mechanisms for quality control during data collection. Finally, we evaluate our dataset using several pre-trained models, such as BERT and RoBERTa. Comprehensive empirical results based on state-of-the-art neural models demonstrate that modeling of social norms for dialogue systems is a promising research direction. To the best of our knowledge, SocialDial is the first socially-aware dialogue dataset that covers multiple social factors and has fine-grained labels. 

**Title:** MixPro: Data Augmentation with MaskMix and Progressive Attention  Labeling for Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12043

**Abstract:** The recently proposed data augmentation TransMix employs attention labels to help visual transformers (ViT) achieve better robustness and performance. However, TransMix is deficient in two aspects: 1) The image cropping method of TransMix may not be suitable for vision transformer. 2) At the early stage of training, the model produces unreliable attention maps. TransMix uses unreliable attention maps to compute mixed attention labels that can affect the model. To address the aforementioned issues, we propose MaskMix and Progressive Attention Labeling (PAL) in image and label space, respectively. In detail, from the perspective of image space, we design MaskMix, which mixes two images based on a patch-like grid mask. In particular, the size of each mask patch is adjustable and is a multiple of the image patch size, which ensures each image patch comes from only one image and contains more global contents. From the perspective of label space, we design PAL, which utilizes a progressive factor to dynamically re-weight the attention weights of the mixed attention label. Finally, we combine MaskMix and Progressive Attention Labeling as our new data augmentation method, named MixPro. The experimental results show that our method can improve various ViT-based models at scales on ImageNet classification (73.8\% top-1 accuracy based on DeiT-T for 300 epochs). After being pre-trained with MixPro on ImageNet, the ViT-based models also demonstrate better transferability to semantic segmentation, object detection, and instance segmentation. Furthermore, compared to TransMix, MixPro also shows stronger robustness on several benchmarks. The code will be released at https://github.com/fistyee/MixPro. 

**Title:** Improving Synthetically Generated Image Detection in Cross-Concept  Settings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12053

**Abstract:** New advancements for the detection of synthetic images are critical for fighting disinformation, as the capabilities of generative AI models continuously evolve and can lead to hyper-realistic synthetic imagery at unprecedented scale and speed. In this paper, we focus on the challenge of generalizing across different concept classes, e.g., when training a detector on human faces and testing on synthetic animal images - highlighting the ineffectiveness of existing approaches that randomly sample generated images to train their models. By contrast, we propose an approach based on the premise that the robustness of the detector can be enhanced by training it on realistic synthetic images that are selected based on their quality scores according to a probabilistic quality estimation model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach by conducting experiments with generated images from two seminal architectures, StyleGAN2 and Latent Diffusion, and using three different concepts for each, so as to measure the cross-concept generalization ability. Our results show that our quality-based sampling method leads to higher detection performance for nearly all concepts, improving the overall effectiveness of the synthetic image detectors. 

**Title:** Customized Load Profiles Synthesis for Electricity Customers Based on  Conditional Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12076

**Abstract:** Customers' load profiles are critical resources to support data analytics applications in modern power systems. However, there are usually insufficient historical load profiles for data analysis, due to the collection cost and data privacy issues. To address such data shortage problems, load profiles synthesis is an effective technique that provides synthetic training data for customers to build high-performance data-driven models. Nonetheless, it is still challenging to synthesize high-quality load profiles for each customer using generation models trained by the respective customer's data owing to the high heterogeneity of customer load. In this paper, we propose a novel customized load profiles synthesis method based on conditional diffusion models for heterogeneous customers. Specifically, we first convert the customized synthesis into a conditional data generation issue. We then extend traditional diffusion models to conditional diffusion models to realize conditional data generation, which can synthesize exclusive load profiles for each customer according to the customer's load characteristics and application demands. In addition, to implement conditional diffusion models, we design a noise estimation model with stacked residual layers, which improves the generation performance by using skip connections. The attention mechanism is also utilized to better extract the complex temporal dependency of load profiles. Finally, numerical case studies based on a public dataset are conducted to validate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed method. 

**Title:** Augmentation-based Domain Generalization for Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12122

**Abstract:** Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) and domain generalization (DG) are two research areas that aim to tackle the lack of generalization of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) towards unseen domains. While UDA methods have access to unlabeled target images, domain generalization does not involve any target data and only learns generalized features from a source domain. Image-style randomization or augmentation is a popular approach to improve network generalization without access to the target domain. Complex methods are often proposed that disregard the potential of simple image augmentations for out-of-domain generalization. For this reason, we systematically study the in- and out-of-domain generalization capabilities of simple, rule-based image augmentations like blur, noise, color jitter and many more. Based on a full factorial design of experiment design we provide a systematic statistical evaluation of augmentations and their interactions. Our analysis provides both, expected and unexpected, outcomes. Expected, because our experiments confirm the common scientific standard that combination of multiple different augmentations out-performs single augmentations. Unexpected, because combined augmentations perform competitive to state-of-the-art domain generalization approaches, while being significantly simpler and without training overhead. On the challenging synthetic-to-real domain shift between Synthia and Cityscapes we reach 39.5% mIoU compared to 40.9% mIoU of the best previous work. When additionally employing the recent vision transformer architecture DAFormer we outperform these benchmarks with a performance of 44.2% mIoU 

**Title:** Variational Diffusion Auto-encoder: Deep Latent Variable Model with  Unconditional Diffusion Prior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12141

**Abstract:** Variational auto-encoders (VAEs) are one of the most popular approaches to deep generative modeling. Despite their success, images generated by VAEs are known to suffer from blurriness, due to a highly unrealistic modeling assumption that the conditional data distribution $ p(\textbf{x} | \textbf{z})$ can be approximated as an isotropic Gaussian. In this work we introduce a principled approach to modeling the conditional data distribution $p(\textbf{x} | \textbf{z})$ by incorporating a diffusion model. We show that it is possible to create a VAE-like deep latent variable model without making the Gaussian assumption on $ p(\textbf{x} | \textbf{z}) $ or even training a decoder network. A trained encoder and an unconditional diffusion model can be combined via Bayes' rule for score functions to obtain an expressive model for $ p(\textbf{x} | \textbf{z}) $. Our approach avoids making strong assumptions on the parametric form of $ p(\textbf{x} | \textbf{z}) $, and thus allows to significantly improve the performance of VAEs. 

**Title:** Efficient Halftoning via Deep Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12152

**Abstract:** Halftoning aims to reproduce a continuous-tone image with pixels whose intensities are constrained to two discrete levels. This technique has been deployed on every printer, and the majority of them adopt fast methods (e.g., ordered dithering, error diffusion) that fail to render structural details, which determine halftone's quality. Other prior methods of pursuing visual pleasure by searching for the optimal halftone solution, on the contrary, suffer from their high computational cost. In this paper, we propose a fast and structure-aware halftoning method via a data-driven approach. Specifically, we formulate halftoning as a reinforcement learning problem, in which each binary pixel's value is regarded as an action chosen by a virtual agent with a shared fully convolutional neural network (CNN) policy. In the offline phase, an effective gradient estimator is utilized to train the agents in producing high-quality halftones in one action step. Then, halftones can be generated online by one fast CNN inference. Besides, we propose a novel anisotropy suppressing loss function, which brings the desirable blue-noise property. Finally, we find that optimizing SSIM could result in holes in flat areas, which can be avoided by weighting the metric with the contone's contrast map. Experiments show that our framework can effectively train a light-weight CNN, which is 15x faster than previous structure-aware methods, to generate blue-noise halftones with satisfactory visual quality. We also present a prototype of deep multitoning to demonstrate the extensibility of our method. 

**Title:** End-to-End Spatio-Temporal Action Localisation with Video Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12160

**Abstract:** The most performant spatio-temporal action localisation models use external person proposals and complex external memory banks. We propose a fully end-to-end, purely-transformer based model that directly ingests an input video, and outputs tubelets -- a sequence of bounding boxes and the action classes at each frame. Our flexible model can be trained with either sparse bounding-box supervision on individual frames, or full tubelet annotations. And in both cases, it predicts coherent tubelets as the output. Moreover, our end-to-end model requires no additional pre-processing in the form of proposals, or post-processing in terms of non-maximal suppression. We perform extensive ablation experiments, and significantly advance the state-of-the-art results on four different spatio-temporal action localisation benchmarks with both sparse keyframes and full tubelet annotations. 

**Title:** USA-Net: Unified Semantic and Affordance Representations for Robot  Memory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12164

**Abstract:** In order for robots to follow open-ended instructions like "go open the brown cabinet over the sink", they require an understanding of both the scene geometry and the semantics of their environment. Robotic systems often handle these through separate pipelines, sometimes using very different representation spaces, which can be suboptimal when the two objectives conflict. In this work, we present "method", a simple method for constructing a world representation that encodes both the semantics and spatial affordances of a scene in a differentiable map. This allows us to build a gradient-based planner which can navigate to locations in the scene specified using open-ended vocabulary. We use this planner to consistently generate trajectories which are both shorter 5-10% shorter and 10-30% closer to our goal query in CLIP embedding space than paths from comparable grid-based planners which don't leverage gradient information. To our knowledge, this is the first end-to-end differentiable planner optimizes for both semantics and affordance in a single implicit map. Code and visuals are available at our website: https://usa.bolte.cc/ 

**Title:** "Genlangs" and Zipf's Law: Do languages generated by ChatGPT  statistically look human?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12191

**Abstract:** OpenAI's GPT-4 is a Large Language Model (LLM) that can generate coherent constructed languages, or "conlangs," which we propose be called "genlangs" when generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI). The genlangs created by ChatGPT for this research (Voxphera, Vivenzia, and Lumivoxa) each have unique features, appear facially coherent, and plausibly "translate" into English. This study investigates whether genlangs created by ChatGPT follow Zipf's law. Zipf's law approximately holds across all natural and artificially constructed human languages. According to Zipf's law, the word frequencies in a text corpus are inversely proportional to their rank in the frequency table. This means that the most frequent word appears about twice as often as the second most frequent word, three times as often as the third most frequent word, and so on. We hypothesize that Zipf's law will hold for genlangs because (1) genlangs created by ChatGPT fundamentally operate in the same way as human language with respect to the semantic usefulness of certain tokens, and (2) ChatGPT has been trained on a corpora of text that includes many different languages, all of which exhibit Zipf's law to varying degrees. Through statistical linguistics, we aim to understand if LLM-based languages statistically look human. Our findings indicate that genlangs adhere closely to Zipf's law, supporting the hypothesis that genlangs created by ChatGPT exhibit similar statistical properties to natural and artificial human languages. We also conclude that with human assistance, AI is already capable of creating the world's first fully-functional genlang, and we call for its development. 

**Title:** Performance of ChatGPT on the US Fundamentals of Engineering Exam:  Comprehensive Assessment of Proficiency and Potential Implications for  Professional Environmental Engineering Practice  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12198

**Abstract:** In recent years, advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) have led to the development of large language models like GPT-4, demonstrating potential applications in various fields, including education. This study investigates the feasibility and effectiveness of using ChatGPT, a GPT-4 based model, in achieving satisfactory performance on the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) Environmental Exam. This study further shows a significant improvement in the model's accuracy when answering FE exam questions through noninvasive prompt modifications, substantiating the utility of prompt modification as a viable approach to enhance AI performance in educational contexts. Furthermore, the findings reflect remarkable improvements in mathematical capabilities across successive iterations of ChatGPT models, showcasing their potential in solving complex engineering problems. Our paper also explores future research directions, emphasizing the importance of addressing AI challenges in education, enhancing accessibility and inclusion for diverse student populations, and developing AI-resistant exam questions to maintain examination integrity. By evaluating the performance of ChatGPT in the context of the FE Environmental Exam, this study contributes valuable insights into the potential applications and limitations of large language models in educational settings. As AI continues to evolve, these findings offer a foundation for further research into the responsible and effective integration of AI models across various disciplines, ultimately optimizing the learning experience and improving student outcomes. 

**Title:** ChatGPT may Pass the Bar Exam soon, but has a Long Way to Go for the  LexGLUE benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12202

**Abstract:** Following the hype around OpenAI's ChatGPT conversational agent, the last straw in the recent development of Large Language Models (LLMs) that demonstrate emergent unprecedented zero-shot capabilities, we audit the latest OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model, `gpt-3.5-turbo', the first available ChatGPT model, in the LexGLUE benchmark in a zero-shot fashion providing examples in a templated instruction-following format. The results indicate that ChatGPT achieves an average micro-F1 score of 47.6% across LexGLUE tasks, surpassing the baseline guessing rates. Notably, the model performs exceptionally well in some datasets, achieving micro-F1 scores of 62.8% and 70.2% in the ECtHR B and LEDGAR datasets, respectively. The code base and model predictions are available for review on https://github.com/coastalcph/zeroshot_lexglue. 

**Title:** Creating Large Language Model Resistant Exams: Guidelines and Strategies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12203

**Abstract:** The proliferation of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, has raised concerns about their potential impact on academic integrity, prompting the need for LLM-resistant exam designs. This article investigates the performance of LLMs on exams and their implications for assessment, focusing on ChatGPT's abilities and limitations. We propose guidelines for creating LLM-resistant exams, including content moderation, deliberate inaccuracies, real-world scenarios beyond the model's knowledge base, effective distractor options, evaluating soft skills, and incorporating non-textual information. The article also highlights the significance of adapting assessments to modern tools and promoting essential skills development in students. By adopting these strategies, educators can maintain academic integrity while ensuring that assessments accurately reflect contemporary professional settings and address the challenges and opportunities posed by artificial intelligence in education. 

**Title:** Multipar-T: Multiparty-Transformer for Capturing Contingent Behaviors in  Group Conversations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12204

**Abstract:** As we move closer to real-world AI systems, AI agents must be able to deal with multiparty (group) conversations. Recognizing and interpreting multiparty behaviors is challenging, as the system must recognize individual behavioral cues, deal with the complexity of multiple streams of data from multiple people, and recognize the subtle contingent social exchanges that take place amongst group members. To tackle this challenge, we propose the Multiparty-Transformer (Multipar-T), a transformer model for multiparty behavior modeling. The core component of our proposed approach is the Crossperson Attention, which is specifically designed to detect contingent behavior between pairs of people. We verify the effectiveness of Multipar-T on a publicly available video-based group engagement detection benchmark, where it outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in average F-1 scores by 5.2% and individual class F-1 scores by up to 10.0%. Through qualitative analysis, we show that our Crossperson Attention module is able to discover contingent behavior. 

**Title:** Can ChatGPT be used to generate scientific hypotheses?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12208

**Abstract:** We investigate whether large language models can perform the creative hypothesis generation that human researchers regularly do. While the error rate is high, generative AI seems to be able to effectively structure vast amounts of scientific knowledge and provide interesting and testable hypotheses. The future scientific enterprise may include synergistic efforts with a swarm of "hypothesis machines", challenged by automated experimentation and adversarial peer reviews. 

**Title:** A Transfer Principle: Universal Approximators Between Metric Spaces From  Euclidean Universal Approximators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12231

**Abstract:** We build universal approximators of continuous maps between arbitrary Polish metric spaces $\mathcal{X}$ and $\mathcal{Y}$ using universal approximators between Euclidean spaces as building blocks. Earlier results assume that the output space $\mathcal{Y}$ is a topological vector space. We overcome this limitation by "randomization": our approximators output discrete probability measures over $\mathcal{Y}$. When $\mathcal{X}$ and $\mathcal{Y}$ are Polish without additional structure, we prove very general qualitative guarantees; when they have suitable combinatorial structure, we prove quantitative guarantees for H\"older-like maps, including maps between finite graphs, solution operators to rough differential equations between certain Carnot groups, and continuous non-linear operators between Banach spaces arising in inverse problems. In particular, we show that the required number of Dirac measures is determined by the combinatorial structure of $\mathcal{X}$ and $\mathcal{Y}$. For barycentric $\mathcal{Y}$, including Banach spaces, $\mathbb{R}$-trees, Hadamard manifolds, or Wasserstein spaces on Polish metric spaces, our approximators reduce to $\mathcal{Y}$-valued functions. When the Euclidean approximators are neural networks, our constructions generalize transformer networks, providing a new probabilistic viewpoint of geometric deep learning. 

**Title:** WizardLM: Empowering Large Language Models to Follow Complex  Instructions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12244

**Abstract:** Training large language models (LLM) with open-domain instruction following data brings colossal success. However, manually creating such instruction data is very time-consuming and labor-intensive. Moreover, humans may struggle to produce high-complexity instructions. In this paper, we show an avenue for creating large amounts of instruction data with varying levels of complexity using LLM instead of humans. Starting with an initial set of instructions, we use our proposed Evol-Instruct to rewrite them step by step into more complex instructions. Then, we mix all generated instruction data to fine-tune LLaMA. We call the resulting model WizardLM. Human evaluations on a complexity-balanced test bed show that instructions from Evol-Instruct are superior to human-created ones. By analyzing the human evaluation results of the high complexity part, we demonstrate that outputs from our WizardLM model are preferred to outputs from OpenAI ChatGPT. Even though WizardLM still lags behind ChatGPT in some aspects, our findings suggest that fine-tuning with AI-evolved instructions is a promising direction for enhancing large language models. Our codes and generated data are public at https://github.com/nlpxucan/WizardLM 

**Title:** Enriching Source Code with Contextual Data for Code Completion Models:  An Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12269

**Abstract:** Transformer-based pre-trained models have recently achieved great results in solving many software engineering tasks including automatic code completion which is a staple in a developer's toolkit. While many have striven to improve the code-understanding abilities of such models, the opposite -- making the code easier to understand -- has not been properly investigated. In this study, we aim to answer whether making code easier to understand through using contextual data improves the performance of pre-trained code language models for the task of code completion. We consider type annotations and comments as two common forms of additional contextual information that often help developers understand code better. For the experiments, we study code completion in two granularity levels; token and line completion and take three recent and large-scale language models for source code: UniXcoder, CodeGPT, and InCoder with five evaluation metrics. Finally, we perform the Wilcoxon Signed Rank test to gauge significance and measure the effect size. Contrary to our expectations, all models perform better if type annotations are removed (albeit the effect sizes are small). For comments, we find that the models perform better in the presence of multi-line comments (again with small effect sizes). Based on our observations, we recommend making proper design choices when training, fine-tuning, or simply selecting such models given the intended data and application. Better evaluations and multi-modal techniques can also be further investigated to improve the practicality and accuracy of auto-completions. 

**Title:** Moving Forward by Moving Backward: Embedding Action Impact over Action  Semantics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12289

**Abstract:** A common assumption when training embodied agents is that the impact of taking an action is stable; for instance, executing the "move ahead" action will always move the agent forward by a fixed distance, perhaps with some small amount of actuator-induced noise. This assumption is limiting; an agent may encounter settings that dramatically alter the impact of actions: a move ahead action on a wet floor may send the agent twice as far as it expects and using the same action with a broken wheel might transform the expected translation into a rotation. Instead of relying that the impact of an action stably reflects its pre-defined semantic meaning, we propose to model the impact of actions on-the-fly using latent embeddings. By combining these latent action embeddings with a novel, transformer-based, policy head, we design an Action Adaptive Policy (AAP). We evaluate our AAP on two challenging visual navigation tasks in the AI2-THOR and Habitat environments and show that our AAP is highly performant even when faced, at inference-time with missing actions and, previously unseen, perturbed action space. Moreover, we observe significant improvement in robustness against these actions when evaluating in real-world scenarios. 

**Title:** Explicit Correspondence Matching for Generalizable Neural Radiance  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12294

**Abstract:** We present a new generalizable NeRF method that is able to directly generalize to new unseen scenarios and perform novel view synthesis with as few as two source views. The key to our approach lies in the explicitly modeled correspondence matching information, so as to provide the geometry prior to the prediction of NeRF color and density for volume rendering. The explicit correspondence matching is quantified with the cosine similarity between image features sampled at the 2D projections of a 3D point on different views, which is able to provide reliable cues about the surface geometry. Unlike previous methods where image features are extracted independently for each view, we consider modeling the cross-view interactions via Transformer cross-attention, which greatly improves the feature matching quality. Our method achieves state-of-the-art results on different evaluation settings, with the experiments showing a strong correlation between our learned cosine feature similarity and volume density, demonstrating the effectiveness and superiority of our proposed method. Code is at https://github.com/donydchen/matchnerf 

**Title:** BadGPT: Exploring Security Vulnerabilities of ChatGPT via Backdoor  Attacks to InstructGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12298

**Abstract:** Recently, ChatGPT has gained significant attention in research due to its ability to interact with humans effectively. The core idea behind this model is reinforcement learning (RL) fine-tuning, a new paradigm that allows language models to align with human preferences, i.e., InstructGPT. In this study, we propose BadGPT, the first backdoor attack against RL fine-tuning in language models. By injecting a backdoor into the reward model, the language model can be compromised during the fine-tuning stage. Our initial experiments on movie reviews, i.e., IMDB, demonstrate that an attacker can manipulate the generated text through BadGPT. 

**Title:** Segment Anything in 3D with NeRFs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12308

**Abstract:** The Segment Anything Model (SAM) has demonstrated its effectiveness in segmenting any object/part in various 2D images, yet its ability for 3D has not been fully explored. The real world is composed of numerous 3D scenes and objects. Due to the scarcity of accessible 3D data and high cost of its acquisition and annotation, lifting SAM to 3D is a challenging but valuable research avenue. With this in mind, we propose a novel framework to Segment Anything in 3D, named SA3D. Given a neural radiance field (NeRF) model, SA3D allows users to obtain the 3D segmentation result of any target object via only one-shot manual prompting in a single rendered view. With input prompts, SAM cuts out the target object from the according view. The obtained 2D segmentation mask is projected onto 3D mask grids via density-guided inverse rendering. 2D masks from other views are then rendered, which are mostly uncompleted but used as cross-view self-prompts to be fed into SAM again. Complete masks can be obtained and projected onto mask grids. This procedure is executed via an iterative manner while accurate 3D masks can be finally learned. SA3D can adapt to various radiance fields effectively without any additional redesigning. The entire segmentation process can be completed in approximately two minutes without any engineering optimization. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of SA3D in different scenes, highlighting the potential of SAM in 3D scene perception. The project page is at https://jumpat.github.io/SA3D/. 

**Title:** FastMRI Prostate: A Publicly Available, Biparametric MRI Dataset to  Advance Machine Learning for Prostate Cancer Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.09254

**Abstract:** The fastMRI brain and knee dataset has enabled significant advances in exploring reconstruction methods for improving speed and image quality for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) via novel, clinically relevant reconstruction approaches. In this study, we describe the April 2023 expansion of the fastMRI dataset to include biparametric prostate MRI data acquired on a clinical population. The dataset consists of raw k-space and reconstructed images for T2-weighted and diffusion-weighted sequences along with slice-level labels that indicate the presence and grade of prostate cancer. As has been the case with fastMRI, increasing accessibility to raw prostate MRI data will further facilitate research in MR image reconstruction and evaluation with the larger goal of improving the utility of MRI for prostate cancer detection and evaluation. The dataset is available at https://fastmri.med.nyu.edu. 

**Title:** Vision Transformer for Efficient Chest X-ray and Gastrointestinal Image  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11529

**Abstract:** Medical image analysis is a hot research topic because of its usefulness in different clinical applications, such as early disease diagnosis and treatment. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have become the de-facto standard in medical image analysis tasks because of their ability to learn complex features from the available datasets, which makes them surpass humans in many image-understanding tasks. In addition to CNNs, transformer architectures also have gained popularity for medical image analysis tasks. However, despite progress in the field, there are still potential areas for improvement. This study uses different CNNs and transformer-based methods with a wide range of data augmentation techniques. We evaluated their performance on three medical image datasets from different modalities. We evaluated and compared the performance of the vision transformer model with other state-of-the-art (SOTA) pre-trained CNN networks. For Chest X-ray, our vision transformer model achieved the highest F1 score of 0.9532, recall of 0.9533, Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) of 0.9259, and ROC-AUC score of 0.97. Similarly, for the Kvasir dataset, we achieved an F1 score of 0.9436, recall of 0.9437, MCC of 0.9360, and ROC-AUC score of 0.97. For the Kvasir-Capsule (a large-scale VCE dataset), our ViT model achieved a weighted F1-score of 0.7156, recall of 0.7182, MCC of 0.3705, and ROC-AUC score of 0.57. We found that our transformer-based models were better or more effective than various CNN models for classifying different anatomical structures, findings, and abnormalities. Our model showed improvement over the CNN-based approaches and suggests that it could be used as a new benchmarking algorithm for algorithm development. 

**Title:** Towards Controllable Audio Texture Morphing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11648

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a data-driven approach to train a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) conditioned on "soft-labels" distilled from the penultimate layer of an audio classifier trained on a target set of audio texture classes. We demonstrate that interpolation between such conditions or control vectors provides smooth morphing between the generated audio textures, and shows similar or better audio texture morphing capability compared to the state-of-the-art methods. The proposed approach results in a well-organized latent space that generates novel audio outputs while remaining consistent with the semantics of the conditioning parameters. This is a step towards a general data-driven approach to designing generative audio models with customized controls capable of traversing out-of-distribution regions for novel sound synthesis. 

**Title:** DiffESM: Conditional Emulation of Earth System Models with Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11699

**Abstract:** Earth System Models (ESMs) are essential tools for understanding the impact of human actions on Earth's climate. One key application of these models is studying extreme weather events, such as heat waves or dry spells, which have significant socioeconomic and environmental consequences. However, the computational demands of running a sufficient number of simulations to analyze the risks are often prohibitive. In this paper we demonstrate that diffusion models -- a class of generative deep learning models -- can effectively emulate the spatio-temporal trends of ESMs under previously unseen climate scenarios, while only requiring a small fraction of the computational resources. We present a diffusion model that is conditioned on monthly averages of temperature or precipitation on a $96 \times 96$ global grid, and produces daily values that are both realistic and consistent with those averages. Our results show that the output from our diffusion model closely matches the spatio-temporal behavior of the ESM it emulates in terms of the frequency of phenomena such as heat waves, dry spells, or rainfall intensity. 

**Title:** DiffVoice: Text-to-Speech with Latent Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11750

**Abstract:** In this work, we present DiffVoice, a novel text-to-speech model based on latent diffusion. We propose to first encode speech signals into a phoneme-rate latent representation with a variational autoencoder enhanced by adversarial training, and then jointly model the duration and the latent representation with a diffusion model. Subjective evaluations on LJSpeech and LibriTTS datasets demonstrate that our method beats the best publicly available systems in naturalness. By adopting recent generative inverse problem solving algorithms for diffusion models, DiffVoice achieves the state-of-the-art performance in text-based speech editing, and zero-shot adaptation. 

**Title:** Benchmarking ChatGPT-4 on ACR Radiation Oncology In-Training Exam  (TXIT): Potentials and Challenges for AI-Assisted Medical Education and  Decision Making in Radiation Oncology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11957

**Abstract:** The potential of large language models in medicine for education and decision making purposes has been demonstrated as they achieve decent scores on medical exams such as the United States Medical Licensing Exam (USMLE) and the MedQA exam. In this work, we evaluate the performance of ChatGPT-3.5 and ChatGPT-4 in the specialized field of radiation oncology using the 38th American College of Radiology (ACR) radiation oncology in-training exam (TXIT). ChatGPT-3.5 and ChatGPT-4 have achieved the scores of 63.65% and 74.57%, respectively, highlighting the advantage of the latest ChatGPT-4 model. Based on the TXIT exam, ChatGPT-4's strong and weak areas in radiation oncology are identified to some extent. Specifically, ChatGPT-4 demonstrates good knowledge of statistics, CNS & eye, pediatrics, biology, and physics but has limitations in bone & soft tissue and gynecology, as per the ACR knowledge domain. Regarding clinical care paths, ChatGPT-4 performs well in diagnosis, prognosis, and toxicity but lacks proficiency in topics related to brachytherapy and dosimetry, as well as in-depth questions from clinical trials. While ChatGPT-4 is not yet suitable for clinical decision making in radiation oncology, it has the potential to assist in medical education for the general public and cancer patients. With further fine-tuning, it could assist radiation oncologists in recommending treatment decisions for challenging clinical cases based on the latest guidelines and the existing gray zone database. 

**Title:** Self-regularised Minimum Latency Training for Streaming  Transformer-based Speech Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.11985

**Abstract:** This paper proposes a self-regularised minimum latency training (SR-MLT) method for streaming Transformer-based automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems. In previous works, latency was optimised by truncating the online attention weights based on the hard alignments obtained from conventional ASR models, without taking into account the potential loss of ASR accuracy. On the contrary, here we present a strategy to obtain the alignments as a part of the model training without external supervision. The alignments produced by the proposed method are dynamically regularised on the training data, such that the latency reduction does not result in the loss of ASR accuracy. SR-MLT is applied as a fine-tuning step on the pre-trained Transformer models that are based on either monotonic chunkwise attention (MoChA) or cumulative attention (CA) algorithms for online decoding. ASR experiments on the AIShell-1 and Librispeech datasets show that when applied on a decent pre-trained MoChA or CA baseline model, SR-MLT can effectively reduce the latency with the relative gains ranging from 11.8% to 39.5%. Furthermore, we also demonstrate that under certain accuracy levels, the models trained with SR-MLT can achieve lower latency when compared to those supervised using external hard alignments. 

**Title:** A 2D Graph-Based Generative Approach For Exploring Transition States  Using Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12233

**Abstract:** The exploration of transition state (TS) geometries is crucial for elucidating chemical reaction mechanisms and modeling their kinetics. In recent years, machine learning (ML) models have shown remarkable performance in TS geometry prediction. However, they require 3D geometries of reactants and products that can be challenging to determine. To tackle this, we introduce TSDiff, a novel ML model based on the stochastic diffusion method, which generates the 3D geometry of the TS from a 2D graph composed of molecular connectivity. Despite of this simple input, TSDiff generated TS geometries with high accuracy, outperforming existing ML models that utilize geometric information. Moreover, the generative model approach enabled the sampling of various valid TS conformations, even though only a single conformation for each reaction was used in training. Consequently, TSDiff also found more favorable reaction pathways with lower barrier heights than those in the reference database. We anticipate that this approach will be useful for exploring complex reactions that require the consideration of multiple TS conformations. 

