**Title:** Pre-trained Embeddings for Entity Resolution: An Experimental Analysis  [Experiment, Analysis & Benchmark]  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12329

**Abstract:** Many recent works on Entity Resolution (ER) leverage Deep Learning techniques involving language models to improve effectiveness. This is applied to both main steps of ER, i.e., blocking and matching. Several pre-trained embeddings have been tested, with the most popular ones being fastText and variants of the BERT model. However, there is no detailed analysis of their pros and cons. To cover this gap, we perform a thorough experimental analysis of 12 popular language models over 17 established benchmark datasets. First, we assess their vectorization overhead for converting all input entities into dense embeddings vectors. Second, we investigate their blocking performance, performing a detailed scalability analysis, and comparing them with the state-of-the-art deep learning-based blocking method. Third, we conclude with their relative performance for both supervised and unsupervised matching. Our experimental results provide novel insights into the strengths and weaknesses of the main language models, facilitating researchers and practitioners to select the most suitable ones in practice. 

**Title:** Better Question-Answering Models on a Budget  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12370

**Abstract:** Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) and question-answer datasets from large language models have made it much easier for much smaller models to be finetuned to the point where they display sophisticated conversational abilities. In this paper, we present Eluwa, a family of LoRA models that use the Stanford Alpaca dataset and massively improve the capabilities of Facebook's OPT 1.3B, 2.7B and 6.7B models. We benchmark these models in multiple ways, including letting GPT-4 judge their answers to prompts that span general knowledge, writing, programming and other tasks. We show that smaller models here can be fine-tuned to be as performant as models 3x larger - all for as little as 40 USD in compute. 

**Title:** Matrix-free GPU-accelerated saddle-point solvers for high-order problems  in $H(\mathrm{div})$  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12387

**Abstract:** This work describes the development of matrix-free GPU-accelerated solvers for high-order finite element problems in $H(\mathrm{div})$. The solvers are applicable to grad-div and Darcy problems in saddle-point formulation, and have applications in radiation diffusion and porous media flow problems, among others. Using the interpolation-histopolation basis (cf. SIAM J. Sci. Comput., 45 (2023), A675-A702, 

**Title:** Pointersect: Neural Rendering with Cloud-Ray Intersection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12390

**Abstract:** We propose a novel method that renders point clouds as if they are surfaces. The proposed method is differentiable and requires no scene-specific optimization. This unique capability enables, out-of-the-box, surface normal estimation, rendering room-scale point clouds, inverse rendering, and ray tracing with global illumination. Unlike existing work that focuses on converting point clouds to other representations--e.g., surfaces or implicit functions--our key idea is to directly infer the intersection of a light ray with the underlying surface represented by the given point cloud. Specifically, we train a set transformer that, given a small number of local neighbor points along a light ray, provides the intersection point, the surface normal, and the material blending weights, which are used to render the outcome of this light ray. Localizing the problem into small neighborhoods enables us to train a model with only 48 meshes and apply it to unseen point clouds. Our model achieves higher estimation accuracy than state-of-the-art surface reconstruction and point-cloud rendering methods on three test sets. When applied to room-scale point clouds, without any scene-specific optimization, the model achieves competitive quality with the state-of-the-art novel-view rendering methods. Moreover, we demonstrate ability to render and manipulate Lidar-scanned point clouds such as lighting control and object insertion. 

**Title:** Extreme Classification for Answer Type Prediction in Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12395

**Abstract:** Semantic answer type prediction (SMART) is known to be a useful step towards effective question answering (QA) systems. The SMART task involves predicting the top-$k$ knowledge graph (KG) types for a given natural language question. This is challenging due to the large number of types in KGs. In this paper, we propose use of extreme multi-label classification using Transformer models (XBERT) by clustering KG types using structural and semantic features based on question text. We specifically improve the clustering stage of the XBERT pipeline using textual and structural features derived from KGs. We show that these features can improve end-to-end performance for the SMART task, and yield state-of-the-art results. 

**Title:** Semantic Tokenizer for Enhanced Natural Language Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12404

**Abstract:** Traditionally, NLP performance improvement has been focused on improving models and increasing the number of model parameters. NLP vocabulary construction has remained focused on maximizing the number of words represented through subword regularization. We present a novel tokenizer that uses semantics to drive vocabulary construction. The tokenizer includes a trainer that uses stemming to enhance subword formation. Further optimizations and adaptations are implemented to minimize the number of words that cannot be encoded. The encoder is updated to integrate with the trainer. The tokenizer is implemented as a drop-in replacement for the SentencePiece tokenizer. The new tokenizer more than doubles the number of wordforms represented in the vocabulary. The enhanced vocabulary significantly improves NLP model convergence, and improves quality of word and sentence embeddings. Our experimental results show top performance on two Glue tasks using BERT-base, improving on models more than 50X in size. 

**Title:** AutoFocusFormer: Image Segmentation off the Grid  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12406

**Abstract:** Real world images often have highly imbalanced content density. Some areas are very uniform, e.g., large patches of blue sky, while other areas are scattered with many small objects. Yet, the commonly used successive grid downsampling strategy in convolutional deep networks treats all areas equally. Hence, small objects are represented in very few spatial locations, leading to worse results in tasks such as segmentation. Intuitively, retaining more pixels representing small objects during downsampling helps to preserve important information. To achieve this, we propose AutoFocusFormer (AFF), a local-attention transformer image recognition backbone, which performs adaptive downsampling by learning to retain the most important pixels for the task. Since adaptive downsampling generates a set of pixels irregularly distributed on the image plane, we abandon the classic grid structure. Instead, we develop a novel point-based local attention block, facilitated by a balanced clustering module and a learnable neighborhood merging module, which yields representations for our point-based versions of state-of-the-art segmentation heads. Experiments show that our AutoFocusFormer (AFF) improves significantly over baseline models of similar sizes. 

**Title:** ChatGPT (Feb 13 Version) is a Chinese Room  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12411

**Abstract:** ChatGPT has gained both positive and negative publicity after reports suggesting that it is able to pass various professional and licensing examinations. This suggests that ChatGPT may pass Turing Test in the near future. However, a computer program that passing Turing Test can either mean that it is a Chinese Room or artificially conscious. Hence, the question of whether the current state of ChatGPT is more of a Chinese Room or approaching artificial consciousness remains. Here, I demonstrate that the current version of ChatGPT (Feb 13 version) is a Chinese Room. Despite potential evidence of cognitive connections, ChatGPT exhibits critical errors in causal reasoning. At the same time, I demonstrate that ChatGPT can generate all possible categorical responses to the same question and response with erroneous examples; thus, questioning its utility as a learning tool. I also show that ChatGPT is capable of artificial hallucination, which is defined as generating confidently wrong replies. It is likely that errors in causal reasoning leads to hallucinations. More critically, ChatGPT generates false references to mimic real publications. Therefore, its utility is cautioned. 

**Title:** VpROM: A novel Variational AutoEncoder-boosted Reduced Order Model for  the treatment of parametric dependencies in nonlinear systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12437

**Abstract:** Reduced Order Models (ROMs) are of considerable importance in many areas of engineering in which computational time presents difficulties. Established approaches employ projection-based reduction such as Proper Orthogonal Decomposition, however, such methods can become inefficient or fail in the case of parameteric or strongly nonlinear models. Such limitations are usually tackled via a library of local reduction bases each of which being valid for a given parameter vector. The success of such methods, however, is strongly reliant upon the method used to relate the parameter vectors to the local bases, this is typically achieved using clustering or interpolation methods. We propose the replacement of these methods with a Variational Autoencoder (VAE) to be used as a generative model which can infer the local basis corresponding to a given parameter vector in a probabilistic manner. The resulting VAE-boosted parametric ROM \emph{VpROM} still retains the physical insights of a projection-based method but also allows for better treatment of problems where model dependencies or excitation traits cause the dynamic behavior to span multiple response regimes. Moreover, the probabilistic treatment of the VAE representation allows for uncertainty quantification on the reduction bases which may then be propagated to the ROM response. The performance of the proposed approach is validated on an open-source simulation benchmark featuring hysteresis and multi-parametric dependencies, and on a large-scale wind turbine tower characterised by nonlinear material behavior and model uncertainty. 

**Title:** TextMesh: Generation of Realistic 3D Meshes From Text Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12439

**Abstract:** The ability to generate highly realistic 2D images from mere text prompts has recently made huge progress in terms of speed and quality, thanks to the advent of image diffusion models. Naturally, the question arises if this can be also achieved in the generation of 3D content from such text prompts. To this end, a new line of methods recently emerged trying to harness diffusion models, trained on 2D images, for supervision of 3D model generation using view dependent prompts. While achieving impressive results, these methods, however, have two major drawbacks. First, rather than commonly used 3D meshes, they instead generate neural radiance fields (NeRFs), making them impractical for most real applications. Second, these approaches tend to produce over-saturated models, giving the output a cartoonish looking effect. Therefore, in this work we propose a novel method for generation of highly realistic-looking 3D meshes. To this end, we extend NeRF to employ an SDF backbone, leading to improved 3D mesh extraction. In addition, we propose a novel way to finetune the mesh texture, removing the effect of high saturation and improving the details of the output 3D mesh. 

**Title:** Understanding and Predicting Human Label Variation in Natural Language  Inference through Explanation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12443

**Abstract:** Human label variation (Plank 2022), or annotation disagreement, exists in many natural language processing (NLP) tasks. To be robust and trusted, NLP models need to identify such variation and be able to explain it. To this end, we created the first ecologically valid explanation dataset with diverse reasoning, LiveNLI. LiveNLI contains annotators' highlights and free-text explanations for the label(s) of their choice for 122 English Natural Language Inference items, each with at least 10 annotations. We used its explanations for chain-of-thought prompting, and found there is still room for improvement in GPT-3's ability to predict label distribution with in-context learning. 

**Title:** Rank Flow Embedding for Unsupervised and Semi-Supervised Manifold  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12448

**Abstract:** Impressive advances in acquisition and sharing technologies have made the growth of multimedia collections and their applications almost unlimited. However, the opposite is true for the availability of labeled data, which is needed for supervised training, since such data is often expensive and time-consuming to obtain. While there is a pressing need for the development of effective retrieval and classification methods, the difficulties faced by supervised approaches highlight the relevance of methods capable of operating with few or no labeled data. In this work, we propose a novel manifold learning algorithm named Rank Flow Embedding (RFE) for unsupervised and semi-supervised scenarios. The proposed method is based on ideas recently exploited by manifold learning approaches, which include hypergraphs, Cartesian products, and connected components. The algorithm computes context-sensitive embeddings, which are refined following a rank-based processing flow, while complementary contextual information is incorporated. The generated embeddings can be exploited for more effective unsupervised retrieval or semi-supervised classification based on Graph Convolutional Networks. Experimental results were conducted on 10 different collections. Various features were considered, including the ones obtained with recent Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Vision Transformer (ViT) models. High effective results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on different tasks: unsupervised image retrieval, semi-supervised classification, and person Re-ID. The results demonstrate that RFE is competitive or superior to the state-of-the-art in diverse evaluated scenarios. 

**Title:** Unsupervised Style-based Explicit 3D Face Reconstruction from Single  Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12455

**Abstract:** Inferring 3D object structures from a single image is an ill-posed task due to depth ambiguity and occlusion. Typical resolutions in the literature include leveraging 2D or 3D ground truth for supervised learning, as well as imposing hand-crafted symmetry priors or using an implicit representation to hallucinate novel viewpoints for unsupervised methods. In this work, we propose a general adversarial learning framework for solving Unsupervised 2D to Explicit 3D Style Transfer (UE3DST). Specifically, we merge two architectures: the unsupervised explicit 3D reconstruction network of Wu et al.\ and the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) named StarGAN-v2. We experiment across three facial datasets (Basel Face Model, 3DFAW and CelebA-HQ) and show that our solution is able to outperform well established solutions such as DepthNet in 3D reconstruction and Pix2NeRF in conditional style transfer, while we also justify the individual contributions of our model components via ablation. In contrast to the aforementioned baselines, our scheme produces features for explicit 3D rendering, which can be manipulated and utilized in downstream tasks. 

**Title:** Instant-3D: Instant Neural Radiance Field Training Towards On-Device  AR/VR 3D Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12467

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) based 3D reconstruction is highly desirable for immersive Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) applications, but achieving instant (i.e., < 5 seconds) on-device NeRF training remains a challenge. In this work, we first identify the inefficiency bottleneck: the need to interpolate NeRF embeddings up to 200,000 times from a 3D embedding grid during each training iteration. To alleviate this, we propose Instant-3D, an algorithm-hardware co-design acceleration framework that achieves instant on-device NeRF training. Our algorithm decomposes the embedding grid representation in terms of color and density, enabling computational redundancy to be squeezed out by adopting different (1) grid sizes and (2) update frequencies for the color and density branches. Our hardware accelerator further reduces the dominant memory accesses for embedding grid interpolation by (1) mapping multiple nearby points' memory read requests into one during the feed-forward process, (2) merging embedding grid updates from the same sliding time window during back-propagation, and (3) fusing different computation cores to support the different grid sizes needed by the color and density branches of Instant-3D algorithm. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of Instant-3D, achieving a large training time reduction of 41x - 248x while maintaining the same reconstruction quality. Excitingly, Instant-3D has enabled instant 3D reconstruction for AR/VR, requiring a reconstruction time of only 1.6 seconds per scene and meeting the AR/VR power consumption constraint of 1.9 W. 

**Title:** Recurrent Transformer Encoders for Vision-based Estimation of Fatigue  and Engagement in Cognitive Training Sessions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12470

**Abstract:** The effectiveness of computerized cognitive training in slowing cognitive decline and brain aging in dementia is often limited by the engagement of participants in the training. Monitoring older users' real-time engagement in domains of attention, motivation, and affect is crucial to understanding the overall effectiveness of such training. In this paper, we propose to predict engagement, quantified via an established mental fatigue measure assessing users' perceived attention, motivation, and affect throughout computerized cognitive training sessions, in older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), by monitoring their real-time video-recorded facial gestures in training sessions. To achieve the goal, we used computer vision, analyzing video frames every 5 seconds to optimize the balance between information retention and data size, and developed a novel Recurrent Video Transformer (RVT). Our RVT model, which combines a clip-wise transformer encoder module and a session-wise Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) classifier, achieved the highest balanced accuracy, F1 score, and precision compared to other state-of-the-art models for both detecting mental fatigue/disengagement cases (binary classification) and rating the level of mental fatigue (multi-class classification). By leveraging dynamic temporal information, the RVT model demonstrates the potential to accurately predict engagement among computerized cognitive training users, which lays the foundation for future work to modulate the level of engagement in computerized cognitive training interventions. The code will be released. 

**Title:** Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) for Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12479

**Abstract:** Artificial general intelligence (AGI) has gained global recognition as a future technology due to the emergence of breakthrough large language models and chatbots such as GPT-4 and ChatGPT, respectively. AGI aims to replicate human intelligence through computer systems, which is one of the critical technologies having the potential to revolutionize the field of education. Compared to conventional AI models, typically designed for a limited range of tasks, demand significant amounts of domain-specific data for training and may not always consider intricate interpersonal dynamics in education. AGI, driven by the recent large pre-trained models, represents a significant leap in the capability of machines to perform tasks that require human-level intelligence, such as reasoning, problem-solving, decision-making, and even understanding human emotions and social interactions. This work reviews AGI's key concepts, capabilities, scope, and potential within future education, including setting educational goals, designing pedagogy and curriculum, and performing assessments. We also provide rich discussions over various ethical issues in education faced by AGI and how AGI will affect human educators. The development of AGI necessitates interdisciplinary collaborations between educators and AI engineers to advance research and application efforts. 

**Title:** RenderDiffusion: Text Generation as Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12519

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have become a new generative paradigm for text generation. Considering the discrete categorical nature of text, in this paper, we propose \textsc{RenderDiffusion}, a novel diffusion approach for text generation via text-guided image generation. Our key idea is to render the target text as a \emph{glyph image} containing visual language content. In this way, conditional text generation can be cast as a glyph image generation task, and it is then natural to apply continuous diffusion models to discrete texts. Specially, we utilize a cascaded architecture (\ie a base and a super-resolution diffusion model) to generate high-fidelity glyph images, conditioned on the input text. Furthermore, we design a text grounding module to transform and refine the visual language content from generated glyph images into the final texts. In experiments over four conditional text generation tasks and two classes of metrics (\ie quality and diversity), \textsc{RenderDiffusion} can achieve comparable or even better results than several baselines, including pretrained language models. Our model also makes significant improvements compared to the recent diffusion model. 

**Title:** Patch Diffusion: Faster and More Data-Efficient Training of Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12526

**Abstract:** Diffusion models are powerful, but they require a lot of time and data to train. We propose Patch Diffusion, a generic patch-wise training framework, to significantly reduce the training time costs while improving data efficiency, which thus helps democratize diffusion model training to broader users. At the core of our innovations is a new conditional score function at the patch level, where the patch location in the original image is included as additional coordinate channels, while the patch size is randomized and diversified throughout training to encode the cross-region dependency at multiple scales. Sampling with our method is as easy as in the original diffusion model. Through Patch Diffusion, we could achieve $\mathbf{\ge 2\times}$ faster training, while maintaining comparable or better generation quality. Patch Diffusion meanwhile improves the performance of diffusion models trained on relatively small datasets, $e.g.$, as few as 5,000 images to train from scratch. We achieve state-of-the-art FID scores 1.77 on CelebA-64$\times$64 and 1.93 on AFHQv2-Wild-64$\times$64. We will share our code and pre-trained models soon. 

**Title:** Improved Trust in Human-Robot Collaboration with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12529

**Abstract:** Human robot collaboration is becoming increasingly important as robots become more involved in various aspects of human life in the era of Artificial Intelligence. However, the issue of human operators trust in robots remains a significant concern, primarily due to the lack of adequate semantic understanding and communication between humans and robots. The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, provides an opportunity to develop an interactive, communicative, and robust human-robot collaboration approach. This paper explores the impact of ChatGPT on trust in a human-robot collaboration assembly task. This study designs a robot control system called RoboGPT using ChatGPT to control a 7-degree-of-freedom robot arm to help human operators fetch, and place tools, while human operators can communicate with and control the robot arm using natural language. A human-subject experiment showed that incorporating ChatGPT in robots significantly increased trust in human-robot collaboration, which can be attributed to the robot's ability to communicate more effectively with humans. Furthermore, ChatGPT ability to understand the nuances of human language and respond appropriately helps to build a more natural and intuitive human-robot interaction. The findings of this study have significant implications for the development of human-robot collaboration systems. 

**Title:** Img2Vec: A Teacher of High Token-Diversity Helps Masked AutoEncoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12535

**Abstract:** We present a pipeline of Image to Vector (Img2Vec) for masked image modeling (MIM) with deep features. To study which type of deep features is appropriate for MIM as a learning target, we propose a simple MIM framework with serials of well-trained self-supervised models to convert an Image to a feature Vector as the learning target of MIM, where the feature extractor is also known as a teacher model. Surprisingly, we empirically find that an MIM model benefits more from image features generated by some lighter models (e.g., ResNet-50, 26M) than from those by a cumbersome teacher like Transformer-based models (e.g., ViT-Large, 307M). To analyze this remarkable phenomenon, we devise a novel attribute, token diversity, to evaluate the characteristics of generated features from different models. Token diversity measures the feature dissimilarity among different tokens. Through extensive experiments and visualizations, we hypothesize that beyond the acknowledgment that a large model can improve MIM, a high token-diversity of a teacher model is also crucial. Based on the above discussion, Img2Vec adopts a teacher model with high token-diversity to generate image features. Img2Vec pre-trained on ImageNet unlabeled data with ViT-B yields 85.1\% top-1 accuracy on fine-tuning. Moreover, we scale up Img2Vec on larger models, ViT-L and ViT-H, and get $86.7\%$ and $87.5\%$ accuracy respectively. It also achieves state-of-the-art results on other downstream tasks, e.g., 51.8\% mAP on COCO and 50.7\% mIoU on ADE20K. Img2Vec is a simple yet effective framework tailored to deep feature MIM learning, accomplishing superb comprehensive performance on representative vision tasks. 

**Title:** Exploring Compositional Visual Generation with Latent Classifier  Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12536

**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models have achieved enormous success in the field of image generation and manipulation. In this paper, we explore a novel paradigm of using the diffusion model and classifier guidance in the latent semantic space for compositional visual tasks. linear fashion. Specifically, we train latent diffusion models and auxiliary latent classifiers to facilitate non-linear navigation of latent representation generation for any pre-trained generative model with a semantic latent space. We demonstrate that such conditional generation achieved by latent classifier guidance provably maximizes a lower bound of the conditional log probability during training. To maintain the original semantics during manipulation, we introduce a new guidance term, which we show is crucial for achieving compositionality. With additional assumptions, we show that the non-linear manipulation reduces to a simple latent arithmetic approach. We show that this paradigm based on latent classifier guidance is agnostic to pre-trained generative models, and present competitive results for both image generation and sequential manipulation of real and synthetic images. Our findings suggest that latent classifier guidance is a promising approach that merits further exploration, even in the presence of other strong competing methods. 

**Title:** Efficient Bayesian inference using physics-informed invertible neural  networks for inverse problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12541

**Abstract:** In the paper, we propose a novel approach for solving Bayesian inverse problems with physics-informed invertible neural networks (PI-INN). The architecture of PI-INN consists of two sub-networks: an invertible neural network (INN) and a neural basis network (NB-Net). The invertible map between the parametric input and the INN output with the aid of NB-Net is constructed to provide a tractable estimation of the posterior distribution, which enables efficient sampling and accurate density evaluation. Furthermore, the loss function of PI-INN includes two components: a residual-based physics-informed loss term and a new independence loss term. The presented independence loss term can Gaussianize the random latent variables and ensure statistical independence between two parts of INN output by effectively utilizing the estimated density function. Several numerical experiments are presented to demonstrate the efficiency and accuracy of the proposed PI-INN, including inverse kinematics, inverse problems of the 1-d and 2-d diffusion equations, and seismic traveltime tomography. 

**Title:** SwinFSR: Stereo Image Super-Resolution using SwinIR and Frequency Domain  Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12556

**Abstract:** Stereo Image Super-Resolution (stereoSR) has attracted significant attention in recent years due to the extensive deployment of dual cameras in mobile phones, autonomous vehicles and robots. In this work, we propose a new StereoSR method, named SwinFSR, based on an extension of SwinIR, originally designed for single image restoration, and the frequency domain knowledge obtained by the Fast Fourier Convolution (FFC). Specifically, to effectively gather global information, we modify the Residual Swin Transformer blocks (RSTBs) in SwinIR by explicitly incorporating the frequency domain knowledge using the FFC and employing the resulting residual Swin Fourier Transformer blocks (RSFTBs) for feature extraction. Besides, for the efficient and accurate fusion of stereo views, we propose a new cross-attention module referred to as RCAM, which achieves highly competitive performance while requiring less computational cost than the state-of-the-art cross-attention modules. Extensive experimental results and ablation studies demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed SwinFSR. 

**Title:** A Preliminary Evaluation of ChatGPT in Requirements Information  Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12562

**Abstract:** Context: Recently, many illustrative examples have shown ChatGPT's impressive ability to perform programming tasks and answer general domain questions. 

**Title:** KINLP at SemEval-2023 Task 12: Kinyarwanda Tweet Sentiment Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12569

**Abstract:** This paper describes the system entered by the author to the SemEval-2023 Task 12: Sentiment analysis for African languages. The system focuses on the Kinyarwanda language and uses a language-specific model. Kinyarwanda morphology is modeled in a two tier transformer architecture and the transformer model is pre-trained on a large text corpus using multi-task masked morphology prediction. The model is deployed on an experimental platform that allows users to experiment with the pre-trained language model fine-tuning without the need to write machine learning code. Our final submission to the shared task achieves second ranking out of 34 teams in the competition, achieving 72.50% weighted F1 score. Our analysis of the evaluation results highlights challenges in achieving high accuracy on the task and identifies areas for improvement. 

**Title:** A Two-part Transformer Network for Controllable Motion Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12571

**Abstract:** Although part-based motion synthesis networks have been investigated to reduce the complexity of modeling heterogeneous human motions, their computational cost remains prohibitive in interactive applications. To this end, we propose a novel two-part transformer network that aims to achieve high-quality, controllable motion synthesis results in real-time. Our network separates the skeleton into the upper and lower body parts, reducing the expensive cross-part fusion operations, and models the motions of each part separately through two streams of auto-regressive modules formed by multi-head attention layers. However, such a design might not sufficiently capture the correlations between the parts. We thus intentionally let the two parts share the features of the root joint and design a consistency loss to penalize the difference in the estimated root features and motions by these two auto-regressive modules, significantly improving the quality of synthesized motions. After training on our motion dataset, our network can synthesize a wide range of heterogeneous motions, like cartwheels and twists. Experimental and user study results demonstrate that our network is superior to state-of-the-art human motion synthesis networks in the quality of generated motions. 

**Title:** MixNeRF: Memory Efficient NeRF with Feature Mixed-up Hash Table  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12587

**Abstract:** Neural radiance field (NeRF) has shown remarkable performance in generating photo-realistic novel views. Since the emergence of NeRF, many studies have been conducted, among which managing features with explicit structures such as grids has achieved exceptionally fast training by reducing the complexity of multilayer perceptron (MLP) networks. However, storing features in dense grids requires significantly large memory space, which leads to memory bottleneck in computer systems and thus large training time. To address this issue, in this work, we propose MixNeRF, a memory-efficient NeRF framework that employs a mixed-up hash table to improve memory efficiency and reduce training time while maintaining reconstruction quality. We first design a \textit{mixed-up hash table} to adaptively mix part of multi-level feature grids into one and map it to a single hash table. Following that, in order to obtain the correct index of a grid point, we further design an \textit{index transformation} method that transforms indices of an arbitrary level grid to those of a canonical grid. Extensive experiments benchmarking with state-of-the-art Instant-NGP, TensoRF, and DVGO, indicate our MixNeRF could achieve the fastest training time on the same GPU hardware with similar or even higher reconstruction quality. Source code is available at \url{https://github.com/nfyfamr/MixNeRF}. 

**Title:** Detection of Pavement Cracks by Deep Learning Models of Transformer and  UNet  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12596

**Abstract:** Fracture is one of the main failure modes of engineering structures such as buildings and roads. Effective detection of surface cracks is significant for damage evaluation and structure maintenance. In recent years, the emergence and development of deep learning techniques have shown great potential to facilitate surface crack detection. Currently, most reported tasks were performed by a convolutional neural network (CNN), while the limitation of CNN may be improved by the transformer architecture introduced recently. In this study, we investigated nine promising models to evaluate their performance in pavement surface crack detection by model accuracy, computational complexity, and model stability. We created 711 images of 224 by 224 pixels with crack labels, selected an optimal loss function, compared the evaluation metrics of the validation dataset and test dataset, analyzed the data details, and checked the segmentation outcomes of each model. We find that transformer-based models generally are easier to converge during the training process and have higher accuracy, but usually exhibit more memory consumption and low processing efficiency. Among nine models, SwinUNet outperforms the other two transformers and shows the highest accuracy among nine models. The results should shed light on surface crack detection by various deep-learning models and provide a guideline for future applications in this field. 

**Title:** THUIR at WSDM Cup 2023 Task 1: Unbiased Learning to Rank  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12650

**Abstract:** This paper introduces the approaches we have used to participate in the WSDM Cup 2023 Task 1: Unbiased Learning to Rank. In brief, we have attempted a combination of both traditional IR models and transformer-based cross-encoder architectures. To further enhance the ranking performance, we also considered a series of features for learning to rank. As a result, we won 2nd place on the final leaderboard. 

**Title:** CoDi: Co-evolving Contrastive Diffusion Models for Mixed-type Tabular  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12654

**Abstract:** With growing attention to tabular data these days, the attempt to apply a synthetic table to various tasks has been expanded toward various scenarios. Owing to the recent advances in generative modeling, fake data generated by tabular data synthesis models become sophisticated and realistic. However, there still exists a difficulty in modeling discrete variables (columns) of tabular data. In this work, we propose to process continuous and discrete variables separately (but being conditioned on each other) by two diffusion models. The two diffusion models are co-evolved during training by reading conditions from each other. In order to further bind the diffusion models, moreover, we introduce a contrastive learning method with a negative sampling method. In our experiments with 11 real-world tabular datasets and 8 baseline methods, we prove the efficacy of the proposed method, called CoDi. 

**Title:** Compressing Sentence Representation with maximum Coding Rate Reduction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12674

**Abstract:** In most natural language inference problems, sentence representation is needed for semantic retrieval tasks. In recent years, pre-trained large language models have been quite effective for computing such representations. These models produce high-dimensional sentence embeddings. An evident performance gap between large and small models exists in practice. Hence, due to space and time hardware limitations, there is a need to attain comparable results when using the smaller model, which is usually a distilled version of the large language model. In this paper, we assess the model distillation of the sentence representation model Sentence-BERT by augmenting the pre-trained distilled model with a projection layer additionally learned on the Maximum Coding Rate Reduction (MCR2)objective, a novel approach developed for general-purpose manifold clustering. We demonstrate that the new language model with reduced complexity and sentence embedding size can achieve comparable results on semantic retrieval benchmarks. 

**Title:** What does BERT learn about prosody?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12706

**Abstract:** Language models have become nearly ubiquitous in natural language processing applications achieving state-of-the-art results in many tasks including prosody. As the model design does not define predetermined linguistic targets during training but rather aims at learning generalized representations of the language, analyzing and interpreting the representations that models implicitly capture is important in bridging the gap between interpretability and model performance. Several studies have explored the linguistic information that models capture providing some insights on their representational capacity. However, the current studies have not explored whether prosody is part of the structural information of the language that models learn. In this work, we perform a series of experiments on BERT probing the representations captured at different layers. Our results show that information about prosodic prominence spans across many layers but is mostly focused in middle layers suggesting that BERT relies mostly on syntactic and semantic information. 

**Title:** Local Implicit Ray Function for Generalizable Radiance Field  Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12746

**Abstract:** We propose LIRF (Local Implicit Ray Function), a generalizable neural rendering approach for novel view rendering. Current generalizable neural radiance fields (NeRF) methods sample a scene with a single ray per pixel and may therefore render blurred or aliased views when the input views and rendered views capture scene content with different resolutions. To solve this problem, we propose LIRF to aggregate the information from conical frustums to construct a ray. Given 3D positions within conical frustums, LIRF takes 3D coordinates and the features of conical frustums as inputs and predicts a local volumetric radiance field. Since the coordinates are continuous, LIRF renders high-quality novel views at a continuously-valued scale via volume rendering. Besides, we predict the visible weights for each input view via transformer-based feature matching to improve the performance in occluded areas. Experimental results on real-world scenes validate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on novel view rendering of unseen scenes at arbitrary scales. 

**Title:** Blockchain Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12749

**Abstract:** This paper presents a dynamic, real-time approach to detecting anomalous blockchain transactions. The proposed tool, TXRANK, generates tracing representations of blockchain activity and trains from scratch a large language model to act as a real-time Intrusion Detection System. Unlike traditional methods, TXRANK is designed to offer an unrestricted search space and does not rely on predefined rules or patterns, enabling it to detect a broader range of anomalies. We demonstrate the effectiveness of TXRANK through its use as an anomaly detection tool for Ethereum transactions. In our experiments, it effectively identifies abnormal transactions among a dataset of 68M transactions and has a batched throughput of 2284 transactions per second on average. Our results show that, TXRANK identifies abnormal transactions by ranking 49 out of 124 attacks among the top-3 most abnormal transactions interacting with their victim contracts. This work makes contributions to the field of blockchain transaction analysis by introducing a custom data encoding compatible with the transformer architecture, a domain-specific tokenization technique, and a tree encoding method specifically crafted for the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) trace representation. 

**Title:** Decoupling Quantile Representations from Loss Functions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12766

**Abstract:** The simultaneous quantile regression (SQR) technique has been used to estimate uncertainties for deep learning models, but its application is limited by the requirement that the solution at the median quantile ({\tau} = 0.5) must minimize the mean absolute error (MAE). In this article, we address this limitation by demonstrating a duality between quantiles and estimated probabilities in the case of simultaneous binary quantile regression (SBQR). This allows us to decouple the construction of quantile representations from the loss function, enabling us to assign an arbitrary classifier f(x) at the median quantile and generate the full spectrum of SBQR quantile representations at different {\tau} values. We validate our approach through two applications: (i) detecting out-of-distribution samples, where we show that quantile representations outperform standard probability outputs, and (ii) calibrating models, where we demonstrate the robustness of quantile representations to distortions. We conclude with a discussion of several hypotheses arising from these findings. 

**Title:** Controlling Posterior Collapse by an Inverse Lipschitz Constraint on the  Decoder Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12770

**Abstract:** Variational autoencoders (VAEs) are one of the deep generative models that have experienced enormous success over the past decades. However, in practice, they suffer from a problem called posterior collapse, which occurs when the encoder coincides, or collapses, with the prior taking no information from the latent structure of the input data into consideration. In this work, we introduce an inverse Lipschitz neural network into the decoder and, based on this architecture, provide a new method that can control in a simple and clear manner the degree of posterior collapse for a wide range of VAE models equipped with a concrete theoretical guarantee. We also illustrate the effectiveness of our method through several numerical experiments. 

**Title:** Modeling Adaptive Self-healing Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12773

**Abstract:** Motivation: Smart grids design requires energy distribution operations to be adaptable to abnormality. This requirement entails distribution system operators (DSOs) to optimize restoration to normal operational states dynamically. However, these design challenges demand collaborative research efforts on sophisticated modeling and simulation approaches. Approach: In the ESOSEG research project, analyzing the smart grid domain as a software-intensive system, we employed a dynamic architecture approach, particularly the FOCUS theory, to model and assure the domains' self-healing requirements. Although some works specify various self-healing systems, to the best of our knowledge, the use of the approach in smart grids is the first work to enable a formal specification and verification of self-healing properties in smart grids. Results: As a result, to support the modeling and verification process, we developed tool support with Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF), Xtext, and other languages in the EMF ecosystem. The tool includes a grammar or a meta-model of the DSL, an interface to enable textual and graphical modeling of architectural patterns and code transformer engine for verification. Furthermore, we evaluated the modeling and verification features of the tool support with an e-Car charging scenario for modeling adaptive self-healing properties. Futureworks: As an outlook, future works could include investigation of comprehensive case studies. These, for instance, could be further particular adaptability scenarios addressing challenges in DSOs. Another interesting aspect could be the evaluation of the modeling approach by investigating its use with engineers involved in a smart grid design. Next, the evaluation could be followed with abstractions of the verification process to make it useable by system architects with no knowledge of the proof language, Isabelle/HOL. 

**Title:** State Spaces Aren't Enough: Machine Translation Needs Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12776

**Abstract:** Structured State Spaces for Sequences (S4) is a recently proposed sequence model with successful applications in various tasks, e.g. vision, language modeling, and audio. Thanks to its mathematical formulation, it compresses its input to a single hidden state, and is able to capture long range dependencies while avoiding the need for an attention mechanism. In this work, we apply S4 to Machine Translation (MT), and evaluate several encoder-decoder variants on WMT'14 and WMT'16. In contrast with the success in language modeling, we find that S4 lags behind the Transformer by approximately 4 BLEU points, and that it counter-intuitively struggles with long sentences. Finally, we show that this gap is caused by S4's inability to summarize the full source sentence in a single hidden state, and show that we can close the gap by introducing an attention mechanism. 

**Title:** Contrastive Energy Prediction for Exact Energy-Guided Diffusion Sampling  in Offline Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12824

**Abstract:** Guided sampling is a vital approach for applying diffusion models in real-world tasks that embeds human-defined guidance during the sampling procedure. This paper considers a general setting where the guidance is defined by an (unnormalized) energy function. The main challenge for this setting is that the intermediate guidance during the diffusion sampling procedure, which is jointly defined by the sampling distribution and the energy function, is unknown and is hard to estimate. To address this challenge, we propose an exact formulation of the intermediate guidance as well as a novel training objective named contrastive energy prediction (CEP) to learn the exact guidance. Our method is guaranteed to converge to the exact guidance under unlimited model capacity and data samples, while previous methods can not. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method by applying it to offline reinforcement learning (RL). Extensive experiments on D4RL benchmarks demonstrate that our method outperforms existing state-of-the-art algorithms. We also provide some examples of applying CEP for image synthesis to demonstrate the scalability of CEP on high-dimensional data. 

**Title:** NLP-LTU at SemEval-2023 Task 10: The Impact of Data Augmentation and  Semi-Supervised Learning Techniques on Text Classification Performance on an  Imbalanced Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12847

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a methodology for task 10 of SemEval23, focusing on detecting and classifying online sexism in social media posts. The task is tackling a serious issue, as detecting harmful content on social media platforms is crucial for mitigating the harm of these posts on users. Our solution for this task is based on an ensemble of fine-tuned transformer-based models (BERTweet, RoBERTa, and DeBERTa). To alleviate problems related to class imbalance, and to improve the generalization capability of our model, we also experiment with data augmentation and semi-supervised learning. In particular, for data augmentation, we use back-translation, either on all classes, or on the underrepresented classes only. We analyze the impact of these strategies on the overall performance of the pipeline through extensive experiments. while for semi-supervised learning, we found that with a substantial amount of unlabelled, in-domain data available, semi-supervised learning can enhance the performance of certain models. Our proposed method (for which the source code is available on Github attains an F1-score of 0.8613 for sub-taskA, which ranked us 10th in the competition 

**Title:** Depth-Relative Self Attention for Monocular Depth Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12849

**Abstract:** Monocular depth estimation is very challenging because clues to the exact depth are incomplete in a single RGB image. To overcome the limitation, deep neural networks rely on various visual hints such as size, shade, and texture extracted from RGB information. However, we observe that if such hints are overly exploited, the network can be biased on RGB information without considering the comprehensive view. We propose a novel depth estimation model named RElative Depth Transformer (RED-T) that uses relative depth as guidance in self-attention. Specifically, the model assigns high attention weights to pixels of close depth and low attention weights to pixels of distant depth. As a result, the features of similar depth can become more likely to each other and thus less prone to misused visual hints. We show that the proposed model achieves competitive results in monocular depth estimation benchmarks and is less biased to RGB information. In addition, we propose a novel monocular depth estimation benchmark that limits the observable depth range during training in order to evaluate the robustness of the model for unseen depths. 

**Title:** ChatGPT believes it is conscious  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12898

**Abstract:** The development of advanced generative chat models, such as ChatGPT, has raised questions about the potential consciousness of these tools and the extent of their general artificial intelligence. ChatGPT consistent avoidance of passing the test is here overcome by asking ChatGPT to apply the Turing test to itself. This explores the possibility of the model recognizing its own sentience. In its own eyes, it passes this test. ChatGPT's self-assessment makes serious implications about our understanding of the Turing test and the nature of consciousness. This investigation concludes by considering the existence of distinct types of consciousness and the possibility that the Turing test is only effective when applied between consciousnesses of the same kind. This study also raises intriguing questions about the nature of AI consciousness and the validity of the Turing test as a means of verifying such consciousness. 

**Title:** The Score-Difference Flow for Implicit Generative Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12906

**Abstract:** Implicit generative modeling (IGM) aims to produce samples of synthetic data matching the characteristics of a target data distribution. Recent work (e.g. score-matching networks, diffusion models) has approached the IGM problem from the perspective of pushing synthetic source data toward the target distribution via dynamical perturbations or flows in the ambient space. We introduce the score difference (SD) between arbitrary target and source distributions as a flow that optimally reduces the Kullback-Leibler divergence between them while also solving the Schr\"odinger bridge problem. We apply the SD flow to convenient proxy distributions, which are aligned if and only if the original distributions are aligned. We demonstrate the formal equivalence of this formulation to denoising diffusion models under certain conditions. However, unlike diffusion models, SD flow places no restrictions on the prior distribution. We also show that the training of generative adversarial networks includes a hidden data-optimization sub-problem, which induces the SD flow under certain choices of loss function when the discriminator is optimal. As a result, the SD flow provides a theoretical link between model classes that, taken together, address all three challenges of the "generative modeling trilemma": high sample quality, mode coverage, and fast sampling. 

**Title:** Escaping the sentence-level paradigm in machine translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12959

**Abstract:** It is well-known that document context is vital for resolving a range of translation ambiguities, and in fact the document setting is the most natural setting for nearly all translation. It is therefore unfortunate that machine translation -- both research and production -- largely remains stuck in a decades-old sentence-level translation paradigm. It is also an increasingly glaring problem in light of competitive pressure from large language models, which are natively document-based. Much work in document-context machine translation exists, but for various reasons has been unable to catch hold. This paper suggests a path out of this rut by addressing three impediments at once: what architectures should we use? where do we get document-level information for training them? and how do we know whether they are any good? In contrast to work on specialized architectures, we show that the standard Transformer architecture is sufficient, provided it has enough capacity. Next, we address the training data issue by taking document samples from back-translated data only, where the data is not only more readily available, but is also of higher quality compared to parallel document data, which may contain machine translation output. Finally, we propose generative variants of existing contrastive metrics that are better able to discriminate among document systems. Results in four large-data language pairs (DE$\rightarrow$EN, EN$\rightarrow$DE, EN$\rightarrow$FR, and EN$\rightarrow$RU) establish the success of these three pieces together in improving document-level performance. 

**Title:** Measuring Massive Multitask Chinese Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12986

**Abstract:** The development of large-scale Chinese language models is flourishing, yet there is a lack of corresponding capability assessments. Therefore, we propose a test to measure the multitask accuracy of large Chinese language models. This test encompasses four major domains, including medicine, law, psychology, and education, with 15 subtasks in medicine and 8 subtasks in education. We found that the best-performing models in the zero-shot setting outperformed the worst-performing models by nearly 22 percentage points on average. Across the four major domains, the average zero-shot accuracy of all models did not exceed 0.5. In the subdomains, only the GPT-3.5-turbo model achieved a zero-shot accuracy of 0.703 in clinical medicine, which was the highest accuracy among all models across all subtasks. All models performed poorly in the legal domain, with the highest zero-shot accuracy reaching only 0.259. By comprehensively evaluating the breadth and depth of knowledge across multiple disciplines, this test can more accurately identify the shortcomings of the models. 

**Title:** AudioGPT: Understanding and Generating Speech, Music, Sound, and Talking  Head  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12995

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable capabilities across a variety of domains and tasks, challenging our understanding of learning and cognition. Despite the recent success, current LLMs are not capable of processing complex audio information or conducting spoken conversations (like Siri or Alexa). In this work, we propose a multi-modal AI system named AudioGPT, which complements LLMs (i.e., ChatGPT) with 1) foundation models to process complex audio information and solve numerous understanding and generation tasks; and 2) the input/output interface (ASR, TTS) to support spoken dialogue. With an increasing demand to evaluate multi-modal LLMs of human intention understanding and cooperation with foundation models, we outline the principles and processes and test AudioGPT in terms of consistency, capability, and robustness. Experimental results demonstrate the capabilities of AudioGPT in solving AI tasks with speech, music, sound, and talking head understanding and generation in multi-round dialogues, which empower humans to create rich and diverse audio content with unprecedented ease. Our system is publicly available at \url{https://github.com/AIGC-Audio/AudioGPT}. 

**Title:** ChatLLM Network: More brains, More intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12998

**Abstract:** Dialogue-based language models mark a huge milestone in the field of artificial intelligence, by their impressive ability to interact with users, as well as a series of challenging tasks prompted by customized instructions. However, the prevalent large-scale dialogue-based language models like ChatGPT still have room for improvement, such as unstable responses to questions and the inability to think cooperatively like humans. Considering the ability of dialogue-based language models in conversation and their inherent randomness in thinking, we propose ChatLLM network that allows multiple dialogue-based language models to interact, provide feedback, and think together. We design the network of ChatLLMs based on ChatGPT. Specifically, individual instances of ChatGPT may possess distinct perspectives towards the same problem, and by consolidating these diverse viewpoints via a separate ChatGPT, the ChatLLM network system can conduct decision-making more objectively and comprehensively. In addition, a language-based feedback mechanism comparable to backpropagation is devised to update the ChatGPTs within the network. Experiments on two datasets demonstrate that our network attains significant improvements in problem-solving, leading to observable progress amongst each member. 

**Title:** The Potential of Visual ChatGPT For Remote Sensing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13009

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP), particularly in Large Language Models (LLMs), associated with deep learning-based computer vision techniques, have shown substantial potential for automating a variety of tasks. One notable model is Visual ChatGPT, which combines ChatGPT's LLM capabilities with visual computation to enable effective image analysis. The model's ability to process images based on textual inputs can revolutionize diverse fields. However, its application in the remote sensing domain remains unexplored. This is the first paper to examine the potential of Visual ChatGPT, a cutting-edge LLM founded on the GPT architecture, to tackle the aspects of image processing related to the remote sensing domain. Among its current capabilities, Visual ChatGPT can generate textual descriptions of images, perform canny edge and straight line detection, and conduct image segmentation. These offer valuable insights into image content and facilitate the interpretation and extraction of information. By exploring the applicability of these techniques within publicly available datasets of satellite images, we demonstrate the current model's limitations in dealing with remote sensing images, highlighting its challenges and future prospects. Although still in early development, we believe that the combination of LLMs and visual models holds a significant potential to transform remote sensing image processing, creating accessible and practical application opportunities in the field. 

**Title:** Stable and low-precision training for large-scale vision-language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13013

**Abstract:** We introduce new methods for 1) accelerating and 2) stabilizing training for large language-vision models. 1) Towards accelerating training, we introduce SwitchBack, a linear layer for int8 quantized training which provides a speed-up of 13-25% while matching the performance of bfloat16 training within 0.1 percentage points for the 1B parameter CLIP ViT-Huge -- the largest int8 training to date. Our main focus is int8 as GPU support for float8 is rare, though we also analyze float8 training through simulation. While SwitchBack proves effective for float8, we show that standard techniques are also successful if the network is trained and initialized so that large feature magnitudes are discouraged, which we accomplish via layer-scale initialized with zeros. 2) Towards stable training, we analyze loss spikes and find they consistently occur 1-8 iterations after the squared gradients become under-estimated by their AdamW second moment estimator. As a result, we recommend an AdamW-Adafactor hybrid, which we refer to as StableAdamW because it avoids loss spikes when training a CLIP ViT-Huge model and outperforms gradient clipping. 

**Title:** DuETT: Dual Event Time Transformer for Electronic Health Records  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13017

**Abstract:** Electronic health records (EHRs) recorded in hospital settings typically contain a wide range of numeric time series data that is characterized by high sparsity and irregular observations. Effective modelling for such data must exploit its time series nature, the semantic relationship between different types of observations, and information in the sparsity structure of the data. Self-supervised Transformers have shown outstanding performance in a variety of structured tasks in NLP and computer vision. But multivariate time series data contains structured relationships over two dimensions: time and recorded event type, and straightforward applications of Transformers to time series data do not leverage this distinct structure. The quadratic scaling of self-attention layers can also significantly limit the input sequence length without appropriate input engineering. We introduce the DuETT architecture, an extension of Transformers designed to attend over both time and event type dimensions, yielding robust representations from EHR data. DuETT uses an aggregated input where sparse time series are transformed into a regular sequence with fixed length; this lowers the computational complexity relative to previous EHR Transformer models and, more importantly, enables the use of larger and deeper neural networks. When trained with self-supervised prediction tasks, that provide rich and informative signals for model pre-training, our model outperforms state-of-the-art deep learning models on multiple downstream tasks from the MIMIC-IV and PhysioNet-2012 EHR datasets. 

**Title:** Face Feature Visualisation of Single Morphing Attack Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13021

**Abstract:** This paper proposes an explainable visualisation of different face feature extraction algorithms that enable the detection of bona fide and morphing images for single morphing attack detection. The feature extraction is based on raw image, shape, texture, frequency and compression. This visualisation may help to develop a Graphical User Interface for border policies and specifically for border guard personnel that have to investigate details of suspect images. A Random forest classifier was trained in a leave-one-out protocol on three landmarks-based face morphing methods and a StyleGAN-based morphing method for which morphed images are available in the FRLL database. For morphing attack detection, the Discrete Cosine-Transformation-based method obtained the best results for synthetic images and BSIF for landmark-based image features. 

**Title:** CompletionFormer: Depth Completion with Convolutions and Vision  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13030

**Abstract:** Given sparse depths and the corresponding RGB images, depth completion aims at spatially propagating the sparse measurements throughout the whole image to get a dense depth prediction. Despite the tremendous progress of deep-learning-based depth completion methods, the locality of the convolutional layer or graph model makes it hard for the network to model the long-range relationship between pixels. While recent fully Transformer-based architecture has reported encouraging results with the global receptive field, the performance and efficiency gaps to the well-developed CNN models still exist because of its deteriorative local feature details. This paper proposes a Joint Convolutional Attention and Transformer block (JCAT), which deeply couples the convolutional attention layer and Vision Transformer into one block, as the basic unit to construct our depth completion model in a pyramidal structure. This hybrid architecture naturally benefits both the local connectivity of convolutions and the global context of the Transformer in one single model. As a result, our CompletionFormer outperforms state-of-the-art CNNs-based methods on the outdoor KITTI Depth Completion benchmark and indoor NYUv2 dataset, achieving significantly higher efficiency (nearly 1/3 FLOPs) compared to pure Transformer-based methods. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/youmi-zym/CompletionFormer}. 

**Title:** xTrimoABFold: De novo Antibody Structure Prediction without MSA  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2212.00735

**Abstract:** In the field of antibody engineering, an essential task is to design a novel antibody whose paratopes bind to a specific antigen with correct epitopes. Understanding antibody structure and its paratope can facilitate a mechanistic understanding of its function. Therefore, antibody structure prediction from its sequence alone has always been a highly valuable problem for de novo antibody design. AlphaFold2, a breakthrough in the field of structural biology, provides a solution to predict protein structure based on protein sequences and computationally expensive coevolutionary multiple sequence alignments (MSAs). However, the computational efficiency and undesirable prediction accuracy of antibodies, especially on the complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) of antibodies limit their applications in the industrially high-throughput drug design. To learn an informative representation of antibodies, we employed a deep antibody language model (ALM) on curated sequences from the observed antibody space database via a transformer model. We also developed a novel model named xTrimoABFold to predict antibody structure from antibody sequence based on the pretrained ALM as well as efficient evoformers and structural modules. The model was trained end-to-end on the antibody structures in PDB by minimizing the ensemble loss of domain-specific focal loss on CDR and the frame-aligned point loss. xTrimoABFold outperforms AlphaFold2 and other protein language model based SOTAs, e.g., OmegaFold, HelixFold-Single, and IgFold with a large significant margin (30+\% improvement on RMSD) while performing 151 times faster than AlphaFold2. To the best of our knowledge, xTrimoABFold achieved state-of-the-art antibody structure prediction. Its improvement in both accuracy and efficiency makes it a valuable tool for de novo antibody design and could make further improvements in immuno-theory. 

**Title:** STM-UNet: An Efficient U-shaped Architecture Based on Swin Transformer  and Multi-scale MLP for Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12615

**Abstract:** Automated medical image segmentation can assist doctors to diagnose faster and more accurate. Deep learning based models for medical image segmentation have made great progress in recent years. However, the existing models fail to effectively leverage Transformer and MLP for improving U-shaped architecture efficiently. In addition, the multi-scale features of the MLP have not been fully extracted in the bottleneck of U-shaped architecture. In this paper, we propose an efficient U-shaped architecture based on Swin Transformer and multi-scale MLP, namely STM-UNet. Specifically, the Swin Transformer block is added to skip connection of STM-UNet in form of residual connection, which can enhance the modeling ability of global features and long-range dependency. Meanwhile, a novel PCAS-MLP with parallel convolution module is designed and placed into the bottleneck of our architecture to contribute to the improvement of segmentation performance. The experimental results on ISIC 2016 and ISIC 2018 demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. Our method also outperforms several state-of-the-art methods in terms of IoU and Dice. Our method has achieved a better trade-off between high segmentation accuracy and low model complexity. 

**Title:** Latent diffusion models for generative precipitation nowcasting with  accurate uncertainty quantification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.12891

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have been widely adopted in image generation, producing higher-quality and more diverse samples than generative adversarial networks (GANs). We introduce a latent diffusion model (LDM) for precipitation nowcasting - short-term forecasting based on the latest observational data. The LDM is more stable and requires less computation to train than GANs, albeit with more computationally expensive generation. We benchmark it against the GAN-based Deep Generative Models of Rainfall (DGMR) and a statistical model, PySTEPS. The LDM produces more accurate precipitation predictions, while the comparisons are more mixed when predicting whether the precipitation exceeds predefined thresholds. The clearest advantage of the LDM is that it generates more diverse predictions than DGMR or PySTEPS. Rank distribution tests indicate that the distribution of samples from the LDM accurately reflects the uncertainty of the predictions. Thus, LDMs are promising for any applications where uncertainty quantification is important, such as weather and climate. 

