**Title:** Diffusion Probabilistic Model Based Accurate and High-Degree-of-Freedom  Metasurface Inverse Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13038

**Abstract:** Conventional meta-atom designs rely heavily on researchers' prior knowledge and trial-and-error searches using full-wave simulations, resulting in time-consuming and inefficient processes. Inverse design methods based on optimization algorithms, such as evolutionary algorithms, and topological optimizations, have been introduced to design metamaterials. However, none of these algorithms are general enough to fulfill multi-objective tasks. Recently, deep learning methods represented by Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have been applied to inverse design of metamaterials, which can directly generate high-degree-of-freedom meta-atoms based on S-parameter requirements. However, the adversarial training process of GANs makes the network unstable and results in high modeling costs. This paper proposes a novel metamaterial inverse design method based on the diffusion probability theory. By learning the Markov process that transforms the original structure into a Gaussian distribution, the proposed method can gradually remove the noise starting from the Gaussian distribution and generate new high-degree-of-freedom meta-atoms that meet S-parameter conditions, which avoids the model instability introduced by the adversarial training process of GANs and ensures more accurate and high-quality generation results. Experiments have proven that our method is superior to representative methods of GANs in terms of model convergence speed, generation accuracy, and quality. 

**Title:** Pretrain on just structure: Understanding linguistic inductive biases  using transfer learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13060

**Abstract:** Both humans and transformer language models are able to learn language without explicit structural supervision. What inductive learning biases make this learning possible? In this study, we examine the effect of different inductive learning biases by predisposing language models with structural biases through pretraining on artificial structured data, and then evaluating by fine-tuning on English. Our experimental setup gives us the ability to actively control the inductive bias of language models. With our experiments, we investigate the comparative success of three types of inductive bias: 1) an inductive bias for recursive, hierarchical processing 2) an inductive bias for unrestricted token-token dependencies that can't be modeled by context-free grammars, and 3) an inductive bias for a Zipfian power-law vocabulary distribution. We show that complex token-token interactions form the best inductive biases, and that this is strongest in the non-context-free case. We also show that a Zipfian vocabulary distribution forms a good inductive bias independently from grammatical structure. Our study leverages the capabilities of transformer models to run controlled language learning experiments that are not possible to run in humans, and surfaces hypotheses about the structures that facilitate language learning in both humans and machines. 

**Title:** iMixer: hierarchical Hopfield network implies an invertible, implicit  and iterative MLP-Mixer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13061

**Abstract:** In the last few years, the success of Transformers in computer vision has stimulated the discovery of many alternative models that compete with Transformers, such as the MLP-Mixer. Despite their weak induced bias, these models have achieved performance comparable to well-studied convolutional neural networks. Recent studies on modern Hopfield networks suggest the correspondence between certain energy-based associative memory models and Transformers or MLP-Mixer, and shed some light on the theoretical background of the Transformer-type architectures design. In this paper we generalize the correspondence to the recently introduced hierarchical Hopfield network, and find iMixer, a novel generalization of MLP-Mixer model. Unlike ordinary feedforward neural networks, iMixer involves MLP layers that propagate forward from the output side to the input side. We characterize the module as an example of invertible, implicit, and iterative mixing module. We evaluate the model performance with various datasets on image classification tasks, and find that iMixer reasonably achieves the improvement compared to the baseline vanilla MLP-Mixer. The results imply that the correspondence between the Hopfield networks and the Mixer models serves as a principle for understanding a broader class of Transformer-like architecture designs. 

**Title:** Objectives Matter: Understanding the Impact of Self-Supervised  Objectives on Vision Transformer Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13089

**Abstract:** Joint-embedding based learning (e.g., SimCLR, MoCo, DINO) and reconstruction-based learning (e.g., BEiT, SimMIM, MAE) are the two leading paradigms for self-supervised learning of vision transformers, but they differ substantially in their transfer performance. Here, we aim to explain these differences by analyzing the impact of these objectives on the structure and transferability of the learned representations. Our analysis reveals that reconstruction-based learning features are significantly dissimilar to joint-embedding based learning features and that models trained with similar objectives learn similar features even across architectures. These differences arise early in the network and are primarily driven by attention and normalization layers. We find that joint-embedding features yield better linear probe transfer for classification because the different objectives drive different distributions of information and invariances in the learned representation. These differences explain opposite trends in transfer performance for downstream tasks that require spatial specificity in features. Finally, we address how fine-tuning changes reconstructive representations to enable better transfer, showing that fine-tuning re-organizes the information to be more similar to pre-trained joint embedding models. 

**Title:** LSTM-based Load Forecasting Robustness Against Noise Injection Attack in  Microgrid  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13104

**Abstract:** In this paper, we investigate the robustness of an LSTM neural network against noise injection attacks for electric load forecasting in an ideal microgrid. The performance of the LSTM model is investigated under a black-box Gaussian noise attack with different SNRs. It is assumed that attackers have just access to the input data of the LSTM model. The results show that the noise attack affects the performance of the LSTM model. The load prediction means absolute error (MAE) is 0.047 MW for a healthy prediction, while this value increases up to 0.097 MW for a Gaussian noise insertion with SNR= 6 dB. To robustify the LSTM model against noise attack, a low-pass filter with optimal cut-off frequency is applied at the model's input to remove the noise attack. The filter performs better in case of noise with lower SNR and is less promising for small noises. 

**Title:** AVFace: Towards Detailed Audio-Visual 4D Face Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13115

**Abstract:** In this work, we present a multimodal solution to the problem of 4D face reconstruction from monocular videos. 3D face reconstruction from 2D images is an under-constrained problem due to the ambiguity of depth. State-of-the-art methods try to solve this problem by leveraging visual information from a single image or video, whereas 3D mesh animation approaches rely more on audio. However, in most cases (e.g. AR/VR applications), videos include both visual and speech information. We propose AVFace that incorporates both modalities and accurately reconstructs the 4D facial and lip motion of any speaker, without requiring any 3D ground truth for training. A coarse stage estimates the per-frame parameters of a 3D morphable model, followed by a lip refinement, and then a fine stage recovers facial geometric details. Due to the temporal audio and video information captured by transformer-based modules, our method is robust in cases when either modality is insufficient (e.g. face occlusions). Extensive qualitative and quantitative evaluation demonstrates the superiority of our method over the current state-of-the-art. 

**Title:** Application of Transformers for Nonlinear Channel Compensation in  Optical Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13119

**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce a new nonlinear channel equalization method for the coherent long-haul transmission based on Transformers. We show that due to their capability to attend directly to the memory across a sequence of symbols, Transformers can be used effectively with a parallelized structure. We present an implementation of encoder part of Transformer for nonlinear equalization and analyze its performance over a wide range of different hyper-parameters. It is shown that by processing blocks of symbols at each iteration and carefully selecting subsets of the encoder's output to be processed together, an efficient nonlinear compensation can be achieved. We also propose the use of a physic-informed mask inspired by nonlinear perturbation theory for reducing the computational complexity of Transformer nonlinear equalization. 

**Title:** Directed Chain Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13131

**Abstract:** Real-world data can be multimodal distributed, e.g., data describing the opinion divergence in a community, the interspike interval distribution of neurons, and the oscillators natural frequencies. Generating multimodal distributed real-world data has become a challenge to existing generative adversarial networks (GANs). For example, neural stochastic differential equations (Neural SDEs), treated as infinite-dimensional GANs, have demonstrated successful performance mainly in generating unimodal time series data. In this paper, we propose a novel time series generator, named directed chain GANs (DC-GANs), which inserts a time series dataset (called a neighborhood process of the directed chain or input) into the drift and diffusion coefficients of the directed chain SDEs with distributional constraints. DC-GANs can generate new time series of the same distribution as the neighborhood process, and the neighborhood process will provide the key step in learning and generating multimodal distributed time series. The proposed DC-GANs are examined on four datasets, including two stochastic models from social sciences and computational neuroscience, and two real-world datasets on stock prices and energy consumption. To our best knowledge, DC-GANs are the first work that can generate multimodal time series data and consistently outperforms state-of-the-art benchmarks with respect to measures of distribution, data similarity, and predictive ability. 

**Title:** Introducing MBIB -- the first Media Bias Identification Benchmark Task  and Dataset Collection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13148

**Abstract:** Although media bias detection is a complex multi-task problem, there is, to date, no unified benchmark grouping these evaluation tasks. We introduce the Media Bias Identification Benchmark (MBIB), a comprehensive benchmark that groups different types of media bias (e.g., linguistic, cognitive, political) under a common framework to test how prospective detection techniques generalize. After reviewing 115 datasets, we select nine tasks and carefully propose 22 associated datasets for evaluating media bias detection techniques. We evaluate MBIB using state-of-the-art Transformer techniques (e.g., T5, BART). Our results suggest that while hate speech, racial bias, and gender bias are easier to detect, models struggle to handle certain bias types, e.g., cognitive and political bias. However, our results show that no single technique can outperform all the others significantly. We also find an uneven distribution of research interest and resource allocation to the individual tasks in media bias. A unified benchmark encourages the development of more robust systems and shifts the current paradigm in media bias detection evaluation towards solutions that tackle not one but multiple media bias types simultaneously. 

**Title:** LumiGAN: Unconditional Generation of Relightable 3D Human Faces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13153

**Abstract:** Unsupervised learning of 3D human faces from unstructured 2D image data is an active research area. While recent works have achieved an impressive level of photorealism, they commonly lack control of lighting, which prevents the generated assets from being deployed in novel environments. To this end, we introduce LumiGAN, an unconditional Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) for 3D human faces with a physically based lighting module that enables relighting under novel illumination at inference time. Unlike prior work, LumiGAN can create realistic shadow effects using an efficient visibility formulation that is learned in a self-supervised manner. LumiGAN generates plausible physical properties for relightable faces, including surface normals, diffuse albedo, and specular tint without any ground truth data. In addition to relightability, we demonstrate significantly improved geometry generation compared to state-of-the-art non-relightable 3D GANs and notably better photorealism than existing relightable GANs. 

**Title:** LEMaRT: Label-Efficient Masked Region Transform for Image Harmonization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13166

**Abstract:** We present a simple yet effective self-supervised pre-training method for image harmonization which can leverage large-scale unannotated image datasets. To achieve this goal, we first generate pre-training data online with our Label-Efficient Masked Region Transform (LEMaRT) pipeline. Given an image, LEMaRT generates a foreground mask and then applies a set of transformations to perturb various visual attributes, e.g., defocus blur, contrast, saturation, of the region specified by the generated mask. We then pre-train image harmonization models by recovering the original image from the perturbed image. Secondly, we introduce an image harmonization model, namely SwinIH, by retrofitting the Swin Transformer [27] with a combination of local and global self-attention mechanisms. Pre-training SwinIH with LEMaRT results in a new state of the art for image harmonization, while being label-efficient, i.e., consuming less annotated data for fine-tuning than existing methods. Notably, on iHarmony4 dataset [8], SwinIH outperforms the state of the art, i.e., SCS-Co [16] by a margin of 0.4 dB when it is fine-tuned on only 50% of the training data, and by 1.0 dB when it is trained on the full training dataset. 

**Title:** Generating Procedural Materials from Text or Image Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13172

**Abstract:** Node graph systems are used ubiquitously for material design in computer graphics. They allow the use of visual programming to achieve desired effects without writing code. As high-level design tools they provide convenience and flexibility, but mastering the creation of node graphs usually requires professional training. We propose an algorithm capable of generating multiple node graphs from different types of prompts, significantly lowering the bar for users to explore a specific design space. Previous work was limited to unconditional generation of random node graphs, making the generation of an envisioned material challenging. We propose a multi-modal node graph generation neural architecture for high-quality procedural material synthesis which can be conditioned on different inputs (text or image prompts), using a CLIP-based encoder. We also create a substantially augmented material graph dataset, key to improving the generation quality. Finally, we generate high-quality graph samples using a regularized sampling process and improve the matching quality by differentiable optimization for top-ranked samples. We compare our methods to CLIP-based database search baselines (which are themselves novel) and achieve superior or similar performance without requiring massive data storage. We further show that our model can produce a set of material graphs unconditionally, conditioned on images, text prompts or partial graphs, serving as a tool for automatic visual programming completion. 

**Title:** AI-assisted coding: Experiments with GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13187

**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence (AI) tools based on large language models have acheived human-level performance on some computer programming tasks. We report several experiments using GPT-4 to generate computer code. These experiments demonstrate that AI code generation using the current generation of tools, while powerful, requires substantial human validation to ensure accurate performance. We also demonstrate that GPT-4 refactoring of existing code can significantly improve that code along several established metrics for code quality, and we show that GPT-4 can generate tests with substantial coverage, but that many of the tests fail when applied to the associated code. These findings suggest that while AI coding tools are very powerful, they still require humans in the loop to ensure validity and accuracy of the results. 

**Title:** TABLET: Learning From Instructions For Tabular Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13188

**Abstract:** Acquiring high-quality data is often a significant challenge in training machine learning (ML) models for tabular prediction, particularly in privacy-sensitive and costly domains like medicine and finance. Providing natural language instructions to large language models (LLMs) offers an alternative solution. However, it is unclear how effectively instructions leverage the knowledge in LLMs for solving tabular prediction problems. To address this gap, we introduce TABLET, a benchmark of 20 diverse tabular datasets annotated with instructions that vary in their phrasing, granularity, and technicality. Additionally, TABLET includes the instructions' logic and structured modifications to the instructions. We find in-context instructions increase zero-shot F1 performance for Flan-T5 11b by 44% on average and 13% for ChatGPT on TABLET. Also, we explore the limitations of using LLMs for tabular prediction in our benchmark by evaluating instruction faithfulness. We find LLMs often ignore instructions and fail to predict specific instances correctly, even with examples. Our analysis on TABLET shows that, while instructions help LLM performance, learning from instructions for tabular data requires new capabilities. 

**Title:** EverLight: Indoor-Outdoor Editable HDR Lighting Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13207

**Abstract:** Because of the diversity in lighting environments, existing illumination estimation techniques have been designed explicitly on indoor or outdoor environments. Methods have focused specifically on capturing accurate energy (e.g., through parametric lighting models), which emphasizes shading and strong cast shadows; or producing plausible texture (e.g., with GANs), which prioritizes plausible reflections. Approaches which provide editable lighting capabilities have been proposed, but these tend to be with simplified lighting models, offering limited realism. In this work, we propose to bridge the gap between these recent trends in the literature, and propose a method which combines a parametric light model with 360{\deg} panoramas, ready to use as HDRI in rendering engines. We leverage recent advances in GAN-based LDR panorama extrapolation from a regular image, which we extend to HDR using parametric spherical gaussians. To achieve this, we introduce a novel lighting co-modulation method that injects lighting-related features throughout the generator, tightly coupling the original or edited scene illumination within the panorama generation process. In our representation, users can easily edit light direction, intensity, number, etc. to impact shading while providing rich, complex reflections while seamlessly blending with the edits. Furthermore, our method encompasses indoor and outdoor environments, demonstrating state-of-the-art results even when compared to domain-specific methods. 

**Title:** Single-View Height Estimation with Conditional Diffusion Probabilistic  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13214

**Abstract:** Digital Surface Models (DSM) offer a wealth of height information for understanding the Earth's surface as well as monitoring the existence or change in natural and man-made structures. Classical height estimation requires multi-view geospatial imagery or LiDAR point clouds which can be expensive to acquire. Single-view height estimation using neural network based models shows promise however it can struggle with reconstructing high resolution features. The latest advancements in diffusion models for high resolution image synthesis and editing have yet to be utilized for remote sensing imagery, particularly height estimation. Our approach involves training a generative diffusion model to learn the joint distribution of optical and DSM images across both domains as a Markov chain. This is accomplished by minimizing a denoising score matching objective while being conditioned on the source image to generate realistic high resolution 3D surfaces. In this paper we experiment with conditional denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM) for height estimation from a single remotely sensed image and show promising results on the Vaihingen benchmark dataset. 

**Title:** Score-based Generative Modeling Through Backward Stochastic Differential  Equations: Inversion and Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13224

**Abstract:** The proposed BSDE-based diffusion model represents a novel approach to diffusion modeling, which extends the application of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) in machine learning. Unlike traditional SDE-based diffusion models, our model can determine the initial conditions necessary to reach a desired terminal distribution by adapting an existing score function. We demonstrate the theoretical guarantees of the model, the benefits of using Lipschitz networks for score matching, and its potential applications in various areas such as diffusion inversion, conditional diffusion, and uncertainty quantification. Our work represents a contribution to the field of score-based generative learning and offers a promising direction for solving real-world problems. 

**Title:** Exploring the Curious Case of Code Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13250

**Abstract:** Recent work has shown that prompting language models with code-like representations of natural language leads to performance improvements on structured reasoning tasks. However, such tasks comprise only a small subset of all natural language tasks. In our work, we seek to answer whether or not code-prompting is the preferred way of interacting with language models in general. We compare code and text prompts across three popular GPT models (davinci, code-davinci-002, and text-davinci-002) on a broader selection of tasks (e.g., QA, sentiment, summarization) and find that with few exceptions, code prompts do not consistently outperform text prompts. Furthermore, we show that the style of code prompt has a large effect on performance for some but not all tasks and that fine-tuning on text instructions leads to better relative performance of code prompts. 

**Title:** StepFormer: Self-supervised Step Discovery and Localization in  Instructional Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13265

**Abstract:** Instructional videos are an important resource to learn procedural tasks from human demonstrations. However, the instruction steps in such videos are typically short and sparse, with most of the video being irrelevant to the procedure. This motivates the need to temporally localize the instruction steps in such videos, i.e. the task called key-step localization. Traditional methods for key-step localization require video-level human annotations and thus do not scale to large datasets. In this work, we tackle the problem with no human supervision and introduce StepFormer, a self-supervised model that discovers and localizes instruction steps in a video. StepFormer is a transformer decoder that attends to the video with learnable queries, and produces a sequence of slots capturing the key-steps in the video. We train our system on a large dataset of instructional videos, using their automatically-generated subtitles as the only source of supervision. In particular, we supervise our system with a sequence of text narrations using an order-aware loss function that filters out irrelevant phrases. We show that our model outperforms all previous unsupervised and weakly-supervised approaches on step detection and localization by a large margin on three challenging benchmarks. Moreover, our model demonstrates an emergent property to solve zero-shot multi-step localization and outperforms all relevant baselines at this task. 

**Title:** From Association to Generation: Text-only Captioning by Unsupervised  Cross-modal Mapping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13273

**Abstract:** With the development of Vision-Language Pre-training Models (VLPMs) represented by CLIP and ALIGN, significant breakthroughs have been achieved for association-based visual tasks such as image classification and image-text retrieval by the zero-shot capability of CLIP without fine-tuning. However, CLIP is hard to apply to generation-based tasks. This is due to the lack of decoder architecture and pre-training tasks for generation. Although previous works have created generation capacity for CLIP through additional language models, a modality gap between the CLIP representations of different modalities and the inability of CLIP to model the offset of this gap, which fails the concept to transfer across modalities. To solve the problem, we try to map images/videos to the language modality and generate captions from the language modality. In this paper, we propose the K-nearest-neighbor Cross-modality Mapping (Knight), a zero-shot method from association to generation. With text-only unsupervised training, Knight achieves state-of-the-art performance in zero-shot methods for image captioning and video captioning. Our code is available at https://github.com/junyangwang0410/Knight. 

**Title:** The Closeness of In-Context Learning and Weight Shifting for Softmax  Regression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13276

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) are known for their exceptional performance in natural language processing, making them highly effective in many human life-related or even job-related tasks. The attention mechanism in the Transformer architecture is a critical component of LLMs, as it allows the model to selectively focus on specific input parts. The softmax unit, which is a key part of the attention mechanism, normalizes the attention scores. Hence, the performance of LLMs in various NLP tasks depends significantly on the crucial role played by the attention mechanism with the softmax unit. 

**Title:** Machine Vision-Based Crop-Load Estimation Using YOLOv8  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13282

**Abstract:** Labor shortages in fruit crop production have prompted the development of mechanized and automated machines as alternatives to labor-intensive orchard operations such as harvesting, pruning, and thinning. Agricultural robots capable of identifying tree canopy parts and estimating geometric and topological parameters, such as branch diameter, length, and angles, can optimize crop yields through automated pruning and thinning platforms. In this study, we proposed a machine vision system to estimate canopy parameters in apple orchards and determine an optimal number of fruit for individual branches, providing a foundation for robotic pruning, flower thinning, and fruitlet thinning to achieve desired yield and quality.Using color and depth information from an RGB-D sensor (Microsoft Azure Kinect DK), a YOLOv8-based instance segmentation technique was developed to identify trunks and branches of apple trees during the dormant season. Principal Component Analysis was applied to estimate branch diameter (used to calculate limb cross-sectional area, or LCSA) and orientation. The estimated branch diameter was utilized to calculate LCSA, which served as an input for crop-load estimation, with larger LCSA values indicating a higher potential fruit-bearing capacity.RMSE for branch diameter estimation was 2.08 mm, and for crop-load estimation, 3.95. Based on commercial apple orchard management practices, the target crop-load (number of fruit) for each segmented branch was estimated with a mean absolute error (MAE) of 2.99 (ground truth crop-load was 6 apples per LCSA). This study demonstrated a promising workflow with high performance in identifying trunks and branches of apple trees in dynamic commercial orchard environments and integrating farm management practices into automated decision-making. 

**Title:** A Case-Based Reasoning Framework for Adaptive Prompting in Cross-Domain  Text-to-SQL  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13301

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), such as Codex, ChatGPT and GPT-4 have significantly impacted the AI community, including Text-to-SQL tasks. Some evaluations and analyses on LLMs show their potential to generate SQL queries but they point out poorly designed prompts (e.g. simplistic construction or random sampling) limit LLMs' performance and may cause unnecessary or irrelevant outputs. To address these issues, we propose CBR-ApSQL, a Case-Based Reasoning (CBR)-based framework combined with GPT-3.5 for precise control over case-relevant and case-irrelevant knowledge in Text-to-SQL tasks. We design adaptive prompts for flexibly adjusting inputs for GPT-3.5, which involves (1) adaptively retrieving cases according to the question intention by de-semantizing the input question, and (2) an adaptive fallback mechanism to ensure the informativeness of the prompt, as well as the relevance between cases and the prompt. In the de-semanticization phase, we designed Semantic Domain Relevance Evaluator(SDRE), combined with Poincar\'e detector(mining implicit semantics in hyperbolic space), TextAlign(discovering explicit matches), and Positector (part-of-speech detector). SDRE semantically and syntactically generates in-context exemplar annotations for the new case. On the three cross-domain datasets, our framework outperforms the state-of-the-art(SOTA) model in execution accuracy by 3.7\%, 2.5\%, and 8.2\%, respectively. 

**Title:** Preconditioned discontinuous Galerkin method and  convection-diffusion-reaction problems with guaranteed bounds to resulting  spectra  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13315

**Abstract:** This paper focuses on the design, analysis and implementation of a new preconditioning concept for linear second order partial differential equations, including the convection-diffusion-reaction problems discretized by Galerkin or discontinuous Galerkin methods. We expand on the approach introduced by Gergelits et al. and adapt it to the more general settings, assuming that both the original and preconditioning matrices are composed of sparse matrices of very low ranks, representing local contributions to the global matrices. When applied to a symmetric problem, the method provides bounds to all individual eigenvalues of the preconditioned matrix. We show that this preconditioning strategy works not only for Galerkin discretization, but also for the discontinuous Galerkin discretization, where local contributions are associated with individual edges of the triangulation. In the case of non-symmetric problems, the method yields guaranteed bounds to real and imaginary parts of the resulting eigenvalues. We include some numerical experiments illustrating the method and its implementation, showcasing its effectiveness for the two variants of discretized (convection-)diffusion-reaction problems. 

**Title:** Event-triggered Boundary Control of a Class of Reaction-Diffusion PDEs  with Time-dependent Reactivity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13322

**Abstract:** This paper presents an event-triggered boundary control strategy for a class of reaction-diffusion PDEs with time-varying reactivity under Robin actuation. The control approach consists of a backstepping full-state feedback boundary controller and a dynamic event-triggering condition, which determines the time instants when the control input needs to be updated. It is proved that under the proposed event-triggered boundary control approach, there is a uniform minimal dwell-time between two event times. Furthermore, the well-posedness and the global exponential convergence of the closed-loop system to zero in $L^2$-sense are established. A simulation is conducted to validate the theoretical developments. 

**Title:** Unleashing Infinite-Length Input Capacity for Large-scale Language  Models with Self-Controlled Memory System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13343

**Abstract:** Large-scale Language Models (LLMs) are constrained by their inability to process lengthy inputs. To address this limitation, we propose the Self-Controlled Memory (SCM) system to unleash infinite-length input capacity for large-scale language models. Our SCM system is composed of three key modules: the language model agent, the memory stream, and the memory controller. The language model agent iteratively processes ultra-long inputs and stores all historical information in the memory stream. The memory controller provides the agent with both long-term memory (archived memory) and short-term memory (flash memory) to generate precise and coherent responses. The controller determines which memories from archived memory should be activated and how to incorporate them into the model input. Our SCM system can be integrated with any LLMs to enable them to process ultra-long texts without any modification or fine-tuning. Experimental results show that our SCM system enables LLMs, which are not optimized for multi-turn dialogue, to achieve multi-turn dialogue capabilities that are comparable to ChatGPT, and to outperform ChatGPT in scenarios involving ultra-long document summarization or long-term conversations. Additionally, we will supply a test set, which covers common long-text input scenarios, for evaluating the abilities of LLMs in processing long documents.~\footnote{Working in progress.}\footnote{\url{https://github.com/wbbeyourself/SCM4LLMs}} 

**Title:** TextDeformer: Geometry Manipulation using Text Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13348

**Abstract:** We present a technique for automatically producing a deformation of an input triangle mesh, guided solely by a text prompt. Our framework is capable of deformations that produce both large, low-frequency shape changes, and small high-frequency details. Our framework relies on differentiable rendering to connect geometry to powerful pre-trained image encoders, such as CLIP and DINO. Notably, updating mesh geometry by taking gradient steps through differentiable rendering is notoriously challenging, commonly resulting in deformed meshes with significant artifacts. These difficulties are amplified by noisy and inconsistent gradients from CLIP. To overcome this limitation, we opt to represent our mesh deformation through Jacobians, which updates deformations in a global, smooth manner (rather than locally-sub-optimal steps). Our key observation is that Jacobians are a representation that favors smoother, large deformations, leading to a global relation between vertices and pixels, and avoiding localized noisy gradients. Additionally, to ensure the resulting shape is coherent from all 3D viewpoints, we encourage the deep features computed on the 2D encoding of the rendering to be consistent for a given vertex from all viewpoints. We demonstrate that our method is capable of smoothly-deforming a wide variety of source mesh and target text prompts, achieving both large modifications to, e.g., body proportions of animals, as well as adding fine semantic details, such as shoe laces on an army boot and fine details of a face. 

**Title:** Mixed finite element methods for nonlinear reaction-diffusion equations  with interfaces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13376

**Abstract:** We develop mixed finite element methods for nonlinear reaction-diffusion equations with interfaces which have Robin-type interface conditions. We introduce the velocity of chemicals as new variables and reformulate the governing equations. The stability of semidiscrete solutions, existence and the a priori error estimates of fully discrete solutions are proved by fixed point theorem and continuous/discrete Gr${\"o}$nwall inequalities. Numerical results illustrating our theoretical analysis are included. 

**Title:** VGOS: Voxel Grid Optimization for View Synthesis from Sparse Inputs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13386

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has shown great success in novel view synthesis due to its state-of-the-art quality and flexibility. However, NeRF requires dense input views (tens to hundreds) and a long training time (hours to days) for a single scene to generate high-fidelity images. Although using the voxel grids to represent the radiance field can significantly accelerate the optimization process, we observe that for sparse inputs, the voxel grids are more prone to overfitting to the training views and will have holes and floaters, which leads to artifacts. In this paper, we propose VGOS, an approach for fast (3-5 minutes) radiance field reconstruction from sparse inputs (3-10 views) to address these issues. To improve the performance of voxel-based radiance field in sparse input scenarios, we propose two methods: (a) We introduce an incremental voxel training strategy, which prevents overfitting by suppressing the optimization of peripheral voxels in the early stage of reconstruction. (b) We use several regularization techniques to smooth the voxels, which avoids degenerate solutions. Experiments demonstrate that VGOS achieves state-of-the-art performance for sparse inputs with super-fast convergence. Code will be available at https://github.com/SJoJoK/VGOS. 

**Title:** STIR: Siamese Transformer for Image Retrieval Postprocessing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13393

**Abstract:** Current metric learning approaches for image retrieval are usually based on learning a space of informative latent representations where simple approaches such as the cosine distance will work well. Recent state of the art methods such as HypViT move to more complex embedding spaces that may yield better results but are harder to scale to production environments. In this work, we first construct a simpler model based on triplet loss with hard negatives mining that performs at the state of the art level but does not have these drawbacks. Second, we introduce a novel approach for image retrieval postprocessing called Siamese Transformer for Image Retrieval (STIR) that reranks several top outputs in a single forward pass. Unlike previously proposed Reranking Transformers, STIR does not rely on global/local feature extraction and directly compares a query image and a retrieved candidate on pixel level with the usage of attention mechanism. The resulting approach defines a new state of the art on standard image retrieval datasets: Stanford Online Products and DeepFashion In-shop. We also release the source code at https://github.com/OML-Team/open-metric-learning/tree/main/pipelines/postprocessing/ and an interactive demo of our approach at https://dapladoc-oml-postprocessing-demo-srcappmain-pfh2g0.streamlit.app/. 

**Title:** DiffuseExpand: Expanding dataset for 2D medical image segmentation using  diffusion models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13416

**Abstract:** Dataset expansion can effectively alleviate the problem of data scarcity for medical image segmentation, due to privacy concerns and labeling difficulties. However, existing expansion algorithms still face great challenges due to their inability of guaranteeing the diversity of synthesized images with paired segmentation masks. In recent years, Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DPMs) have shown powerful image synthesis performance, even better than Generative Adversarial Networks. Based on this insight, we propose an approach called DiffuseExpand for expanding datasets for 2D medical image segmentation using DPM, which first samples a variety of masks from Gaussian noise to ensure the diversity, and then synthesizes images to ensure the alignment of images and masks. After that, DiffuseExpand chooses high-quality samples to further enhance the effectiveness of data expansion. Our comparison and ablation experiments on COVID-19 and CGMH Pelvis datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of DiffuseExpand. Our code is released at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/DiffuseExpand. 

**Title:** Learnable Ophthalmology SAM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13425

**Abstract:** Segmentation is vital for ophthalmology image analysis. But its various modal images hinder most of the existing segmentation algorithms applications, as they rely on training based on a large number of labels or hold weak generalization ability. Based on Segment Anything (SAM), we propose a simple but effective learnable prompt layer suitable for multiple target segmentation in ophthalmology multi-modal images, named Learnable Ophthalmology Segment Anything (SAM). The learnable prompt layer learns medical prior knowledge from each transformer layer. During training, we only train the prompt layer and task head based on a one-shot mechanism. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our thought based on four medical segmentation tasks based on nine publicly available datasets. Moreover, we only provide a new improvement thought for applying the existing fundamental CV models in the medical field. Our codes are available at \href{https://github.com/Qsingle/LearnablePromptSAM}{website}. 

**Title:** Training-Free Location-Aware Text-to-Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13427

**Abstract:** Current large-scale generative models have impressive efficiency in generating high-quality images based on text prompts. However, they lack the ability to precisely control the size and position of objects in the generated image. In this study, we analyze the generative mechanism of the stable diffusion model and propose a new interactive generation paradigm that allows users to specify the position of generated objects without additional training. Moreover, we propose an object detection-based evaluation metric to assess the control capability of location aware generation task. Our experimental results show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on both control capacity and image quality. 

**Title:** Multidimensional Evaluation for Text Style Transfer Using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13462

**Abstract:** We investigate the potential of ChatGPT as a multidimensional evaluator for the task of \emph{Text Style Transfer}, alongside, and in comparison to, existing automatic metrics as well as human judgements. We focus on a zero-shot setting, i.e. prompting ChatGPT with specific task instructions, and test its performance on three commonly-used dimensions of text style transfer evaluation: style strength, content preservation, and fluency. We perform a comprehensive correlation analysis for two transfer directions (and overall) at different levels. Compared to existing automatic metrics, ChatGPT achieves competitive correlations with human judgments. These preliminary results are expected to provide a first glimpse into the role of large language models in the multidimensional evaluation of stylized text generation. 

**Title:** Super-NeRF: View-consistent Detail Generation for NeRF super-resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13518

**Abstract:** The neural radiance field (NeRF) achieved remarkable success in modeling 3D scenes and synthesizing high-fidelity novel views. However, existing NeRF-based methods focus more on the make full use of the image resolution to generate novel views, but less considering the generation of details under the limited input resolution. In analogy to the extensive usage of image super-resolution, NeRF super-resolution is an effective way to generate the high-resolution implicit representation of 3D scenes and holds great potential applications. Up to now, such an important topic is still under-explored. In this paper, we propose a NeRF super-resolution method, named Super-NeRF, to generate high-resolution NeRF from only low-resolution inputs. Given multi-view low-resolution images, Super-NeRF constructs a consistency-controlling super-resolution module to generate view-consistent high-resolution details for NeRF. Specifically, an optimizable latent code is introduced for each low-resolution input image to control the 2D super-resolution images to converge to the view-consistent output. The latent codes of each low-resolution image are optimized synergistically with the target Super-NeRF representation to fully utilize the view consistency constraint inherent in NeRF construction. We verify the effectiveness of Super-NeRF on synthetic, real-world, and AI-generated NeRF datasets. Super-NeRF achieves state-of-the-art NeRF super-resolution performance on high-resolution detail generation and cross-view consistency. 

**Title:** Key-value information extraction from full handwritten pages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13530

**Abstract:** We propose a Transformer-based approach for information extraction from digitized handwritten documents. Our approach combines, in a single model, the different steps that were so far performed by separate models: feature extraction, handwriting recognition and named entity recognition. We compare this integrated approach with traditional two-stage methods that perform handwriting recognition before named entity recognition, and present results at different levels: line, paragraph, and page. Our experiments show that attention-based models are especially interesting when applied on full pages, as they do not require any prior segmentation step. Finally, we show that they are able to learn from key-value annotations: a list of important words with their corresponding named entities. We compare our models to state-of-the-art methods on three public databases (IAM, ESPOSALLES, and POPP) and outperform previous performances on all three datasets. 

**Title:** Towards Multi-Modal DBMSs for Seamless Querying of Texts and Tables  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13559

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose Multi-Modal Databases (MMDBs), which is a new class of database systems that can seamlessly query text and tables using SQL. To enable seamless querying of textual data using SQL in an MMDB, we propose to extend relational databases with so-called multi-modal operators (MMOps) which are based on the advances of recent large language models such as GPT-3. The main idea of MMOps is that they allow text collections to be treated as tables without the need to manually transform the data. As we show in our evaluation, our MMDB prototype can not only outperform state-of-the-art approaches such as text-to-table in terms of accuracy and performance but it also requires significantly less training data to fine-tune the model for an unseen text collection. 

**Title:** Impact of Position Bias on Language Models in Token Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13567

**Abstract:** Language Models (LMs) have shown state-of-the-art performance in Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. Downstream tasks such as Named Entity Recognition (NER) or Part-of-Speech (POS) tagging are known to suffer from data imbalance issues, specifically in terms of the ratio of positive to negative examples, and class imbalance. In this paper, we investigate an additional specific issue for language models, namely the position bias of positive examples in token classification tasks. Therefore, we conduct an in-depth evaluation of the impact of position bias on the performance of LMs when fine-tuned on Token Classification benchmarks. Our study includes CoNLL03 and OntoNote5.0 for NER, English Tree Bank UD_en and TweeBank for POS tagging. We propose an evaluation approach to investigate position bias in Transformer models. We show that encoders like BERT, ERNIE, ELECTRA, and decoders such as GPT2 and BLOOM can suffer from this bias with an average drop of 3\% and 9\% in their performance. To mitigate this effect, we propose two methods: Random Position Shifting and Context Perturbation, that we apply on batches during the training process. The results show an improvement of $\approx$ 2\% in the performance of the model on CoNLL03, UD_en, and TweeBank. 

**Title:** SIMARA: a database for key-value information extraction from full pages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13606

**Abstract:** We propose a new database for information extraction from historical handwritten documents. The corpus includes 5,393 finding aids from six different series, dating from the 18th-20th centuries. Finding aids are handwritten documents that contain metadata describing older archives. They are stored in the National Archives of France and are used by archivists to identify and find archival documents. Each document is annotated at page-level, and contains seven fields to retrieve. The localization of each field is not available in such a way that this dataset encourages research on segmentation-free systems for information extraction. We propose a model based on the Transformer architecture trained for end-to-end information extraction and provide three sets for training, validation and testing, to ensure fair comparison with future works. The database is freely accessible at https://zenodo.org/record/7868059. 

**Title:** HausaNLP at SemEval-2023 Task 12: Leveraging African Low Resource  TweetData for Sentiment Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13634

**Abstract:** We present the findings of SemEval-2023 Task 12, a shared task on sentiment analysis for low-resource African languages using Twitter dataset. The task featured three subtasks; subtask A is monolingual sentiment classification with 12 tracks which are all monolingual languages, subtask B is multilingual sentiment classification using the tracks in subtask A and subtask C is a zero-shot sentiment classification. We present the results and findings of subtask A, subtask B and subtask C. We also release the code on github. Our goal is to leverage low-resource tweet data using pre-trained Afro-xlmr-large, AfriBERTa-Large, Bert-base-arabic-camelbert-da-sentiment (Arabic-camelbert), Multilingual-BERT (mBERT) and BERT models for sentiment analysis of 14 African languages. The datasets for these subtasks consists of a gold standard multi-class labeled Twitter datasets from these languages. Our results demonstrate that Afro-xlmr-large model performed better compared to the other models in most of the languages datasets. Similarly, Nigerian languages: Hausa, Igbo, and Yoruba achieved better performance compared to other languages and this can be attributed to the higher volume of data present in the languages. 

**Title:** PVP: Pre-trained Visual Parameter-Efficient Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13639

**Abstract:** Large-scale pre-trained transformers have demonstrated remarkable success in various computer vision tasks. However, it is still highly challenging to fully fine-tune these models for downstream tasks due to their high computational and storage costs. Recently, Parameter-Efficient Tuning (PETuning) techniques, e.g., Visual Prompt Tuning (VPT) and Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), have significantly reduced the computation and storage cost by inserting lightweight prompt modules into the pre-trained models and tuning these prompt modules with a small number of trainable parameters, while keeping the transformer backbone frozen. Although only a few parameters need to be adjusted, most PETuning methods still require a significant amount of downstream task training data to achieve good results. The performance is inadequate on low-data regimes, especially when there are only one or two examples per class. To this end, we first empirically identify the poor performance is mainly due to the inappropriate way of initializing prompt modules, which has also been verified in the pre-trained language models. Next, we propose a Pre-trained Visual Parameter-efficient (PVP) Tuning framework, which pre-trains the parameter-efficient tuning modules first and then leverages the pre-trained modules along with the pre-trained transformer backbone to perform parameter-efficient tuning on downstream tasks. Experiment results on five Fine-Grained Visual Classification (FGVC) and VTAB-1k datasets demonstrate that our proposed method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art PETuning methods. 

**Title:** Ray Conditioning: Trading Photo-consistency for Photo-realism in  Multi-view Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13681

**Abstract:** Multi-view image generation attracts particular attention these days due to its promising 3D-related applications, e.g., image viewpoint editing. Most existing methods follow a paradigm where a 3D representation is first synthesized, and then rendered into 2D images to ensure photo-consistency across viewpoints. However, such explicit bias for photo-consistency sacrifices photo-realism, causing geometry artifacts and loss of fine-scale details when these methods are applied to edit real images. To address this issue, we propose ray conditioning, a geometry-free alternative that relaxes the photo-consistency constraint. Our method generates multi-view images by conditioning a 2D GAN on a light field prior. With explicit viewpoint control, state-of-the-art photo-realism and identity consistency, our method is particularly suited for the viewpoint editing task. 

**Title:** Harnessing the Power of LLMs in Practice: A Survey on ChatGPT and Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13712

**Abstract:** This paper presents a comprehensive and practical guide for practitioners and end-users working with Large Language Models (LLMs) in their downstream natural language processing (NLP) tasks. We provide discussions and insights into the usage of LLMs from the perspectives of models, data, and downstream tasks. Firstly, we offer an introduction and brief summary of current GPT- and BERT-style LLMs. Then, we discuss the influence of pre-training data, training data, and test data. Most importantly, we provide a detailed discussion about the use and non-use cases of large language models for various natural language processing tasks, such as knowledge-intensive tasks, traditional natural language understanding tasks, natural language generation tasks, emergent abilities, and considerations for specific tasks.We present various use cases and non-use cases to illustrate the practical applications and limitations of LLMs in real-world scenarios. We also try to understand the importance of data and the specific challenges associated with each NLP task. Furthermore, we explore the impact of spurious biases on LLMs and delve into other essential considerations, such as efficiency, cost, and latency, to ensure a comprehensive understanding of deploying LLMs in practice. This comprehensive guide aims to provide researchers and practitioners with valuable insights and best practices for working with LLMs, thereby enabling the successful implementation of these models in a wide range of NLP tasks. A curated list of practical guide resources of LLMs, regularly updated, can be found at \url{https://github.com/Mooler0410/LLMsPracticalGuide}. 

**Title:** Evaluation of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 for supporting real-world information  needs in healthcare delivery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13714

**Abstract:** Despite growing interest in using large language models (LLMs) in healthcare, current explorations do not assess the real-world utility and safety of LLMs in clinical settings. Our objective was to determine whether two LLMs can serve information needs submitted by physicians as questions to an informatics consultation service in a safe and concordant manner. Sixty six questions from an informatics consult service were submitted to GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 via simple prompts. 12 physicians assessed the LLM responses' possibility of patient harm and concordance with existing reports from an informatics consultation service. Physician assessments were summarized based on majority vote. For no questions did a majority of physicians deem either LLM response as harmful. For GPT-3.5, responses to 8 questions were concordant with the informatics consult report, 20 discordant, and 9 were unable to be assessed. There were 29 responses with no majority on "Agree", "Disagree", and "Unable to assess". For GPT-4, responses to 13 questions were concordant, 15 discordant, and 3 were unable to be assessed. There were 35 responses with no majority. Responses from both LLMs were largely devoid of overt harm, but less than 20% of the responses agreed with an answer from an informatics consultation service, responses contained hallucinated references, and physicians were divided on what constitutes harm. These results suggest that while general purpose LLMs are able to provide safe and credible responses, they often do not meet the specific information need of a given question. A definitive evaluation of the usefulness of LLMs in healthcare settings will likely require additional research on prompt engineering, calibration, and custom-tailoring of general purpose models. 

**Title:** Quantum Machine Learning Approach for the Prediction of Surface  Roughness in Additive Manufactured Specimens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13142

**Abstract:** Surface roughness is a crucial factor influencing the performance and functionality of additive manufactured components. Accurate prediction of surface roughness is vital for optimizing manufacturing processes and ensuring the quality of the final product. Quantum computing has recently gained attention as a potential solution for tackling complex problems and creating precise predictive models. In this research paper, we conduct an in-depth comparison of three quantum algorithms i.e. the Quantum Neural Network (QNN), Quantum Forest (Q-Forest), and Variational Quantum Classifier (VQC) adapted for regression for predicting surface roughness in additive manufactured specimens for the first time. We assess the algorithms performance using Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and Explained Variance Score (EVS) as evaluation metrics. Our findings show that the Q-Forest algorithm surpasses the other algorithms, achieving an MSE of 56.905, MAE of 7.479, and an EVS of 0.2957. In contrast, the QNN algorithm displays a higher MSE of 60.840 and MAE of 7.671, coupled with a negative EVS of -0.444, indicating that it may not be appropriate for predicting surface roughness in this application. The VQC adapted for regression exhibits an MSE of 59.121, MAE of 7.597, and an EVS of -0.0106, suggesting its performance is also inferior to the Q-Forest algorithm. 

**Title:** UNADON: Transformer-based model to predict genome-wide chromosome  spatial position  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13230

**Abstract:** The spatial positioning of chromosomes relative to functional nuclear bodies is intertwined with genome functions such as transcription. However, the sequence patterns and epigenomic features that collectively influence chromatin spatial positioning in a genome-wide manner are not well understood. Here, we develop a new transformer-based deep learning model called UNADON, which predicts the genome-wide cytological distance to a specific type of nuclear body, as measured by TSA-seq, using both sequence features and epigenomic signals. Evaluations of UNADON in four cell lines (K562, H1, HFFc6, HCT116) show high accuracy in predicting chromatin spatial positioning to nuclear bodies when trained on a single cell line. UNADON also performed well in an unseen cell type. Importantly, we reveal potential sequence and epigenomic factors that affect large-scale chromatin compartmentalization to nuclear bodies. Together, UNADON provides new insights into the principles between sequence features and large-scale chromatin spatial localization, which has important implications for understanding nuclear structure and function. 

**Title:** Source-Filter-Based Generative Adversarial Neural Vocoder for High  Fidelity Speech Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13270

**Abstract:** This paper proposes a source-filter-based generative adversarial neural vocoder named SF-GAN, which achieves high-fidelity waveform generation from input acoustic features by introducing F0-based source excitation signals to a neural filter framework. The SF-GAN vocoder is composed of a source module and a resolution-wise conditional filter module and is trained based on generative adversarial strategies. The source module produces an excitation signal from the F0 information, then the resolution-wise convolutional filter module combines the excitation signal with processed acoustic features at various temporal resolutions and finally reconstructs the raw waveform. The experimental results show that our proposed SF-GAN vocoder outperforms the state-of-the-art HiFi-GAN and Fre-GAN in both analysis-synthesis (AS) and text-to-speech (TTS) tasks, and the synthesized speech quality of SF-GAN is comparable to the ground-truth audio. 

**Title:** OPDN: Omnidirectional Position-aware Deformable Network for  Omnidirectional Image Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13471

**Abstract:** 360{\deg} omnidirectional images have gained research attention due to their immersive and interactive experience, particularly in AR/VR applications. However, they suffer from lower angular resolution due to being captured by fisheye lenses with the same sensor size for capturing planar images. To solve the above issues, we propose a two-stage framework for 360{\deg} omnidirectional image superresolution. The first stage employs two branches: model A, which incorporates omnidirectional position-aware deformable blocks (OPDB) and Fourier upsampling, and model B, which adds a spatial frequency fusion module (SFF) to model A. Model A aims to enhance the feature extraction ability of 360{\deg} image positional information, while Model B further focuses on the high-frequency information of 360{\deg} images. The second stage performs same-resolution enhancement based on the structure of model A with a pixel unshuffle operation. In addition, we collected data from YouTube to improve the fitting ability of the transformer, and created pseudo low-resolution images using a degradation network. Our proposed method achieves superior performance and wins the NTIRE 2023 challenge of 360{\deg} omnidirectional image super-resolution. 

**Title:** A mean-field games laboratory for generative modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13534

**Abstract:** In this paper, we demonstrate the versatility of mean-field games (MFGs) as a mathematical framework for explaining, enhancing, and designing generative models. There is a pervasive sense in the generative modeling community that the various flow and diffusion-based generative models have some foundational common structure and interrelationships. We establish connections between MFGs and major classes of flow and diffusion-based generative models including continuous-time normalizing flows, score-based models, and Wasserstein gradient flows. We derive these three classes of generative models through different choices of particle dynamics and cost functions. Furthermore, we study the mathematical structure and properties of each generative model by studying their associated MFG's optimality condition, which is a set of coupled nonlinear partial differential equations (PDEs). The theory of MFGs, therefore, enables the study of generative models through the theory of nonlinear PDEs. Through this perspective, we investigate the well-posedness and structure of normalizing flows, unravel the mathematical structure of score-based generative modeling, and derive a mean-field game formulation of the Wasserstein gradient flow. From an algorithmic perspective, the optimality conditions of MFGs also allow us to introduce HJB regularizers for enhanced training a broader class of generative models. We present this framework as an MFG laboratory which serves as a platform for revealing new avenues of experimentation and invention of generative models. This laboratory will give rise to a multitude of well-posed generative modeling formulations, providing a consistent theoretical framework upon which numerical and algorithmic tools may be developed. 

