**Title:** ChatGPT is all you need to decolonize sub-Saharan Vocational Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13728

**Abstract:** The advances of Generative AI models with interactive capabilities over the past few years offer unique opportunities for socioeconomic mobility. Their potential for scalability, accessibility, affordability, personalizing and convenience sets a first-class opportunity for poverty-stricken countries to adapt and modernize their educational order. As a result, this position paper makes the case for an educational policy framework that would succeed in this transformation by prioritizing vocational and technical training over academic education in sub-Saharan African countries. We highlight substantial applications of Large Language Models, tailor-made to their respective cultural background(s) and needs, that would reinforce their systemic decolonization. Lastly, we provide specific historical examples of diverse states successfully implementing such policies in the elementary steps of their socioeconomic transformation, in order to corroborate our proposal to sub-Saharan African countries to follow their lead. 

**Title:** A Unified Approach to Lane Change Intention Recognition and Driving  Status Prediction through TCN-LSTM and Multi-Task Learning Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13732

**Abstract:** Lane change (LC) is a continuous and complex operation process. Accurately detecting and predicting LC processes can help traffic participants better understand their surrounding environment, recognize potential LC safety hazards, and improve traffic safety. This present paper focuses on LC processes, developing an LC intention recognition (LC-IR) model and an LC status prediction (LC-SP) model. A novel ensemble temporal convolutional network with Long Short-Term Memory units (TCN-LSTM) is first proposed to capture long-range dependencies in sequential data. Then, three multi-task models (MTL-LSTM, MTL-TCN, MTL-TCN -LSTM) are developed to capture the intrinsic relationship among output indicators. Furthermore, a unified modeling framework for LC intention recognition and driving status prediction (LC-IR-SP) is developed. To validate the performance of the proposed models, a total number of 1023 vehicle trajectories is extracted from the CitySim dataset. The Pearson coefficient is employed to determine the related indicators. The results indicate that using150 frames as input length, the TCN-LSTM model with 96.67% accuracy outperforms TCN and LSTM models in LC intention classification and provides more balanced results for each class. Three proposed multi-tasking learning models provide markedly increased performance compared to corresponding single-task models, with an average reduction of 24.24% and 22.86% in the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), respectively. The developed LC-IR-SP model has promising applications for autonomous vehicles to identity lane change behaviors, calculate a real-time traffic conflict index and improve vehicle control strategies. 

**Title:** TR0N: Translator Networks for 0-Shot Plug-and-Play Conditional  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13742

**Abstract:** We propose TR0N, a highly general framework to turn pre-trained unconditional generative models, such as GANs and VAEs, into conditional models. The conditioning can be highly arbitrary, and requires only a pre-trained auxiliary model. For example, we show how to turn unconditional models into class-conditional ones with the help of a classifier, and also into text-to-image models by leveraging CLIP. TR0N learns a lightweight stochastic mapping which "translates" between the space of conditions and the latent space of the generative model, in such a way that the generated latent corresponds to a data sample satisfying the desired condition. The translated latent samples are then further improved upon through Langevin dynamics, enabling us to obtain higher-quality data samples. TR0N requires no training data nor fine-tuning, yet can achieve a zero-shot FID of 10.9 on MS-COCO, outperforming competing alternatives not only on this metric, but also in sampling speed -- all while retaining a much higher level of generality. Our code is available at https://github.com/layer6ai-labs/tr0n. 

**Title:** Towards ethical multimodal systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13765

**Abstract:** The impact of artificial intelligence systems on our society is increasing at an unprecedented speed. For instance, ChatGPT is being tested in mental health treatment applications such as Koko, Stable Diffusion generates pieces of art competitive with (or outperforming) human artists, and so on. Ethical concerns regarding the behavior and applications of generative AI systems have been increasing over the past years, and the field of AI alignment - steering the behavior of AI systems towards being aligned with human values - is a rapidly growing subfield of modern AI. In this paper, we address the challenges involved in ethical evaluation of a multimodal artificial intelligence system. The multimodal systems we focus on take both text and an image as input and output text, completing the sentence or answering the question asked as input. We perform the evaluation of these models in two steps: we first discus the creation of a multimodal ethical database and then use this database to construct morality-evaluating algorithms. The creation of the multimodal ethical database is done interactively through human feedback. Users are presented with multiple examples and votes on whether they are ethical or not. Once these answers have been aggregated into a dataset, we built and tested different algorithms to automatically evaluate the morality of multimodal systems. These algorithms aim to classify the answers as ethical or not. The models we tested are a RoBERTa-large classifier and a multilayer perceptron classifier. 

**Title:** Preserving Superconvergence of Spectral Elements for Curved Domains via  $h$ and $p$-Geometric Refinement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13766

**Abstract:** Spectral element methods (SEM), which are extensions of finite element methods (FEM), are important emerging techniques for solving partial differential equations in physics and engineering. SEM can potentially deliver better accuracy due to the potential superconvergence for well-shaped tensor-product elements. However, for complex geometries, the accuracy of SEM often degrades due to a combination of geometric inaccuracies near curved boundaries and the loss of superconvergence with simplicial or non-tensor-product elements. We propose to overcome the first issue by using $h$- and $p$-geometric refinement, to refine the mesh near high-curvature regions and increase the degree of geometric basis functions, respectively. We show that when using mixed-meshes with tensor-product elements in the interior of the domain, curvature-based geometric refinement near boundaries can improve the accuracy of the interior elements by reducing pollution errors and preserving the superconvergence. To overcome the second issue, we apply a post-processing technique to recover the accuracy near the curved boundaries by using the adaptive extended stencil finite element method (AES-FEM). The combination of curvature-based geometric refinement and accurate post-processing delivers an effective and easier-to-implement alternative to other methods based on exact geometries. We demonstrate our techniques by solving the convection-diffusion equation in 2D and show one to two orders of magnitude of improvement in the solution accuracy, even when the elements are poorly shaped near boundaries. 

**Title:** Multimodal Composite Association Score: Measuring Gender Bias in  Generative Multimodal Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13855

**Abstract:** Generative multimodal models based on diffusion models have seen tremendous growth and advances in recent years. Models such as DALL-E and Stable Diffusion have become increasingly popular and successful at creating images from texts, often combining abstract ideas. However, like other deep learning models, they also reflect social biases they inherit from their training data, which is often crawled from the internet. Manually auditing models for biases can be very time and resource consuming and is further complicated by the unbounded and unconstrained nature of inputs these models can take. Research into bias measurement and quantification has generally focused on small single-stage models working on a single modality. Thus the emergence of multistage multimodal models requires a different approach. In this paper, we propose Multimodal Composite Association Score (MCAS) as a new method of measuring gender bias in multimodal generative models. Evaluating both DALL-E 2 and Stable Diffusion using this approach uncovered the presence of gendered associations of concepts embedded within the models. We propose MCAS as an accessible and scalable method of quantifying potential bias for models with different modalities and a range of potential biases. 

**Title:** Is a prompt and a few samples all you need? Using GPT-4 for data  augmentation in low-resource classification tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13861

**Abstract:** Obtaining and annotating data can be expensive and time-consuming, especially in complex, low-resource domains. We use GPT-4 and ChatGPT to augment small labeled datasets with synthetic data via simple prompts, in three different classification tasks with varying complexity. For each task, we randomly select a base sample of 500 texts to generate 5,000 new synthetic samples. We explore two augmentation strategies: one that preserves original label distribution and another that balances the distribution. Using a progressively larger training sample size, we train and evaluate a 110M parameter multilingual language model on the real and synthetic data separately. We also test GPT-4 and ChatGPT in a zero-shot setting on the test sets. We observe that GPT-4 and ChatGPT have strong zero-shot performance across all tasks. We find that data augmented with synthetic samples yields a good downstream performance, and particularly aids in low-resource settings, such as in identifying rare classes. Human-annotated data exhibits a strong predictive power, overtaking synthetic data in two out of the three tasks. This finding highlights the need for more complex prompts for synthetic datasets to consistently surpass human-generated ones. 

**Title:** Neural Keyphrase Generation: Analysis and Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13883

**Abstract:** Keyphrase generation aims at generating topical phrases from a given text either by copying from the original text (present keyphrases) or by producing new keyphrases (absent keyphrases) that capture the semantic meaning of the text. Encoder-decoder models are most widely used for this task because of their capabilities for absent keyphrase generation. However, there has been little to no analysis on the performance and behavior of such models for keyphrase generation. In this paper, we study various tendencies exhibited by three strong models: T5 (based on a pre-trained transformer), CatSeq-Transformer (a non-pretrained Transformer), and ExHiRD (based on a recurrent neural network). We analyze prediction confidence scores, model calibration, and the effect of token position on keyphrases generation. Moreover, we motivate and propose a novel metric framework, SoftKeyScore, to evaluate the similarity between two sets of keyphrases by using softscores to account for partial matching and semantic similarity. We find that SoftKeyScore is more suitable than the standard F1 metric for evaluating two sets of given keyphrases. 

**Title:** Provably Stabilizing Global-Position Tracking Control for Hybrid Models  of Multi-Domain Bipedal Walking via Multiple Lyapunov Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13943

**Abstract:** Accurate control of a humanoid robot's global position (i.e., its three-dimensional position in the world) is critical to the reliable execution of high-risk tasks such as avoiding collision with pedestrians in a crowded environment. This paper introduces a time-based nonlinear control method that achieves accurate global-position tracking (GPT) for multi-domain bipedal walking. Deriving a tracking controller for bipedal robots is challenging due to the highly complex robot dynamics that are time-varying and hybrid, especially for multi-domain walking that involves multiple phases/domains of full actuation, over actuation, and underactuation. To tackle this challenge, we introduce a continuous-phase GPT control law for multi-domain walking, which provably ensures the exponential convergence of the entire error state within the full and over actuation domains and that of the directly regulated error state within the underactuation domain. We then construct sufficient multiple-Lyapunov stability conditions for the hybrid multi-domain tracking error system under the proposed GPT control law. We illustrate the proposed controller design through both three-domain walking with all motors activated and two-domain gait with inactive ankle motors. Simulations of a ROBOTIS OP3 bipedal humanoid robot demonstrate the satisfactory accuracy and convergence rate of the proposed control approach under two different cases of multi-domain walking as well as various walking speeds and desired paths. 

**Title:** Two kinds of numerical algorithms for ultra-slow diffusion equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13966

**Abstract:** In this article, two kinds of numerical algorithms are derived for the ultra-slow (or superslow) diffusion equation in one and two space dimensions, where the ultra-slow diffusion is characterized by the Caputo-Hadamard fractional derivative of order $\alpha \in (0,1)$. To describe the spatial interaction, the Riesz fractional derivative and the fractional Laplacian are used in one and two space dimensions, respectively. The Caputo-Hadamard derivative is discretized by two typical approximate formulae, i.e., L2-1$_{\sigma}$ and L1-2 methods. The spatial fractional derivatives are discretized by the 2-nd order finite difference methods. When L2-1$_{\sigma}$ discretization is used, the derived numerical scheme is unconditionally stable with error estimate $\mathcal{O}(\tau^{2}+h^{2})$ for all $\alpha \in (0, 1)$, in which $\tau$ and $h$ are temporal and spatial stepsizes, respectively. When L1-2 discretization is used, the derived numerical scheme is stable with error estimate $\mathcal{O}(\tau^{3-\alpha}+h^{2})$ for $\alpha \in (0, 0.3738)$. The illustrative examples displayed are in line with the theoretical analysis. 

**Title:** Optimization-Inspired Cross-Attention Transformer for Compressive  Sensing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13986

**Abstract:** By integrating certain optimization solvers with deep neural networks, deep unfolding network (DUN) with good interpretability and high performance has attracted growing attention in compressive sensing (CS). However, existing DUNs often improve the visual quality at the price of a large number of parameters and have the problem of feature information loss during iteration. In this paper, we propose an Optimization-inspired Cross-attention Transformer (OCT) module as an iterative process, leading to a lightweight OCT-based Unfolding Framework (OCTUF) for image CS. Specifically, we design a novel Dual Cross Attention (Dual-CA) sub-module, which consists of an Inertia-Supplied Cross Attention (ISCA) block and a Projection-Guided Cross Attention (PGCA) block. ISCA block introduces multi-channel inertia forces and increases the memory effect by a cross attention mechanism between adjacent iterations. And, PGCA block achieves an enhanced information interaction, which introduces the inertia force into the gradient descent step through a cross attention block. Extensive CS experiments manifest that our OCTUF achieves superior performance compared to state-of-the-art methods while training lower complexity. Codes are available at https://github.com/songjiechong/OCTUF. 

**Title:** Contour Completion by Transformers and Its Application to Vector Font  Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13988

**Abstract:** In documents and graphics, contours are a popular format to describe specific shapes. For example, in the True Type Font (TTF) file format, contours describe vector outlines of typeface shapes. Each contour is often defined as a sequence of points. In this paper, we tackle the contour completion task. In this task, the input is a contour sequence with missing points, and the output is a generated completed contour. This task is more difficult than image completion because, for images, the missing pixels are indicated. Since there is no such indication in the contour completion task, we must solve the problem of missing part detection and completion simultaneously. We propose a Transformer-based method to solve this problem and show the results of the typeface contour completion. 

**Title:** Vision Conformer: Incorporating Convolutions into Vision Transformer  Layers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13991

**Abstract:** Transformers are popular neural network models that use layers of self-attention and fully-connected nodes with embedded tokens. Vision Transformers (ViT) adapt transformers for image recognition tasks. In order to do this, the images are split into patches and used as tokens. One issue with ViT is the lack of inductive bias toward image structures. Because ViT was adapted for image data from language modeling, the network does not explicitly handle issues such as local translations, pixel information, and information loss in the structures and features shared by multiple patches. Conversely, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) incorporate this information. Thus, in this paper, we propose the use of convolutional layers within ViT. Specifically, we propose a model called a Vision Conformer (ViC) which replaces the Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) in a ViT layer with a CNN. In addition, to use the CNN, we proposed to reconstruct the image data after the self-attention in a reverse embedding layer. Through the evaluation, we demonstrate that the proposed convolutions help improve the classification ability of ViT. 

**Title:** SweCTRL-Mini: a data-transparent Transformer-based large language model  for controllable text generation in Swedish  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13994

**Abstract:** We present SweCTRL-Mini, a large Swedish language model that can be used for inference and fine-tuning on a single consumer-grade GPU. The model is based on the CTRL architecture by Keskar, McCann, Varshney, Xiong, and Socher (2019), which means that users of the SweCTRL-Mini model can control the genre of the generated text by inserting special tokens in the generation prompts. SweCTRL-Mini is trained on a subset of the Swedish part of the mC4 corpus and a set of Swedish novels. In this article, we provide (1) a detailed account of the utilized training data and text pre-processing steps, to the extent that it is possible to check whether a specific phrase/source was a part of the training data, and (2) an evaluation of the model on both discriminative tasks, using automatic evaluation methods, and generative tasks, using human referees. We also compare the generative capabilities of the model with those of GPT-3. SweCTRL-Mini is fully open and available for download. 

**Title:** ContraNeRF: 3D-Aware Generative Model via Contrastive Learning with  Unsupervised Implicit Pose Embedding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14005

**Abstract:** Although 3D-aware GANs based on neural radiance fields have achieved competitive performance, their applicability is still limited to objects or scenes with the ground-truths or prediction models for clearly defined canonical camera poses. To extend the scope of applicable datasets, we propose a novel 3D-aware GAN optimization technique through contrastive learning with implicit pose embeddings. To this end, we first revise the discriminator design and remove dependency on ground-truth camera poses. Then, to capture complex and challenging 3D scene structures more effectively, we make the discriminator estimate a high-dimensional implicit pose embedding from a given image and perform contrastive learning on the pose embedding. The proposed approach can be employed for the dataset, where the canonical camera pose is ill-defined because it does not look up or estimate camera poses. Experimental results show that our algorithm outperforms existing methods by large margins on the datasets with multiple object categories and inconsistent canonical camera poses. 

**Title:** Edit Everything: A Text-Guided Generative System for Images Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14006

**Abstract:** We introduce a new generative system called Edit Everything, which can take image and text inputs and produce image outputs. Edit Everything allows users to edit images using simple text instructions. Our system designs prompts to guide the visual module in generating requested images. Experiments demonstrate that Edit Everything facilitates the implementation of the visual aspects of Stable Diffusion with the use of Segment Anything model and CLIP. Our system is publicly available at https://github.com/DefengXie/Edit_Everything. 

**Title:** Boosting Big Brother: Attacking Search Engines with Encodings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14031

**Abstract:** Search engines are vulnerable to attacks against indexing and searching via text encoding manipulation. By imperceptibly perturbing text using uncommon encoded representations, adversaries can control results across search engines for specific search queries. We demonstrate that this attack is successful against two major commercial search engines - Google and Bing - and one open source search engine - Elasticsearch. We further demonstrate that this attack is successful against LLM chat search including Bing's GPT-4 chatbot and Google's Bard chatbot. We also present a variant of the attack targeting text summarization and plagiarism detection models, two ML tasks closely tied to search. We provide a set of defenses against these techniques and warn that adversaries can leverage these attacks to launch disinformation campaigns against unsuspecting users, motivating the need for search engine maintainers to patch deployed systems. 

**Title:** Localized orthogonal decomposition for a multiscale parabolic stochastic  partial differential equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14049

**Abstract:** A multiscale method is proposed for a parabolic stochastic partial differential equation with additive noise and highly oscillatory diffusion. The framework is based on the localized orthogonal decomposition (LOD) method and computes a coarse-scale representation of the elliptic operator, enriched by fine-scale information on the diffusion. Optimal order strong convergence is derived. The LOD technique is combined with a (multilevel) Monte-Carlo estimator and the weak error is analyzed. Numerical examples that confirm the theoretical findings are provided, and the computational efficiency of the method is highlighted. 

**Title:** Lightweight, Pre-trained Transformers for Remote Sensing Timeseries  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14065

**Abstract:** Machine learning algorithms for parsing remote sensing data have a wide range of societally relevant applications, but labels used to train these algorithms can be difficult or impossible to acquire. This challenge has spurred research into self-supervised learning for remote sensing data aiming to unlock the use of machine learning in geographies or application domains where labelled datasets are small. Current self-supervised learning approaches for remote sensing data draw significant inspiration from techniques applied to natural images. However, remote sensing data has important differences from natural images -- for example, the temporal dimension is critical for many tasks and data is collected from many complementary sensors. We show that designing models and self-supervised training techniques specifically for remote sensing data results in both smaller and more performant models. We introduce the Pretrained Remote Sensing Transformer (Presto), a transformer-based model pre-trained on remote sensing pixel-timeseries data. Presto excels at a wide variety of globally distributed remote sensing tasks and outperforms much larger models. Presto can be used for transfer learning or as a feature extractor for simple models, enabling efficient deployment at scale. 

**Title:** Compositional 3D Human-Object Neural Animation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14070

**Abstract:** Human-object interactions (HOIs) are crucial for human-centric scene understanding applications such as human-centric visual generation, AR/VR, and robotics. Since existing methods mainly explore capturing HOIs, rendering HOI remains less investigated. In this paper, we address this challenge in HOI animation from a compositional perspective, i.e., animating novel HOIs including novel interaction, novel human and/or novel object driven by a novel pose sequence. Specifically, we adopt neural human-object deformation to model and render HOI dynamics based on implicit neural representations. To enable the interaction pose transferring among different persons and objects, we then devise a new compositional conditional neural radiance field (or CC-NeRF), which decomposes the interdependence between human and object using latent codes to enable compositionally animation control of novel HOIs. Experiments show that the proposed method can generalize well to various novel HOI animation settings. Our project page is https://zhihou7.github.io/CHONA/ 

**Title:** Origin Tracing and Detecting of LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14072

**Abstract:** The extraordinary performance of large language models (LLMs) heightens the importance of detecting whether the context is generated by an AI system. More importantly, while more and more companies and institutions release their LLMs, the origin can be hard to trace. Since LLMs are heading towards the time of AGI, similar to the origin tracing in anthropology, it is of great importance to trace the origin of LLMs. In this paper, we first raise the concern of the origin tracing of LLMs and propose an effective method to trace and detect AI-generated contexts. We introduce a novel algorithm that leverages the contrastive features between LLMs and extracts model-wise features to trace the text origins. Our proposed method works under both white-box and black-box settings therefore can be widely generalized to detect various LLMs.(e.g. can be generalized to detect GPT-3 models without the GPT-3 models). Also, our proposed method requires only limited data compared with the supervised learning methods and can be extended to trace new-coming model origins. We construct extensive experiments to examine whether we can trace the origins of given texts. We provide valuable observations based on the experimental results, such as the difficulty level of AI origin tracing, and the AI origin similarities, and call for ethical concerns of LLM providers. We are releasing all codes and data as a toolkit and benchmark for future AI origin tracing and detecting studies. \footnote{We are releasing all available resource at \url{https://github.com/OpenLMLab/}.} 

**Title:** ChatLog: Recording and Analyzing ChatGPT Across Time  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14106

**Abstract:** While there are abundant researches about evaluating ChatGPT on natural language understanding and generation tasks, few studies have investigated how ChatGPT's behavior changes over time. In this paper, we collect a coarse-to-fine temporal dataset called ChatLog, consisting of two parts that update monthly and daily: ChatLog-Monthly is a dataset of 38,730 question-answer pairs collected every month including questions from both the reasoning and classification tasks. ChatLog-Daily, on the other hand, consists of ChatGPT's responses to 1000 identical questions for long-form generation every day. We conduct comprehensive automatic and human evaluation to provide the evidence for the existence of ChatGPT evolving patterns. We further analyze the unchanged characteristics of ChatGPT over time by extracting its knowledge and linguistic features. We find some stable features to improve the robustness of a RoBERTa-based detector on new versions of ChatGPT. We will continuously maintain our project at https://github.com/THU-KEG/ChatLog. 

**Title:** DataComp: In search of the next generation of multimodal datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14108

**Abstract:** Large multimodal datasets have been instrumental in recent breakthroughs such as CLIP, Stable Diffusion, and GPT-4. At the same time, datasets rarely receive the same research attention as model architectures or training algorithms. To address this shortcoming in the machine learning ecosystem, we introduce DataComp, a benchmark where the training code is fixed and researchers innovate by proposing new training sets. We provide a testbed for dataset experiments centered around a new candidate pool of 12.8B image-text pairs from Common Crawl. Participants in our benchmark design new filtering techniques or curate new data sources and then evaluate their new dataset by running our standardized CLIP training code and testing on 38 downstream test sets. Our benchmark consists of multiple scales, with four candidate pool sizes and associated compute budgets ranging from 12.8M to 12.8B samples seen during training. This multi-scale design facilitates the study of scaling trends and makes the benchmark accessible to researchers with varying resources. 

**Title:** Deeply-Coupled Convolution-Transformer with Spatial-temporal  Complementary Learning for Video-based Person Re-identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14122

**Abstract:** Advanced deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have shown great success in video-based person Re-Identification (Re-ID). However, they usually focus on the most obvious regions of persons with a limited global representation ability. Recently, it witnesses that Transformers explore the inter-patch relations with global observations for performance improvements. In this work, we take both sides and propose a novel spatial-temporal complementary learning framework named Deeply-Coupled Convolution-Transformer (DCCT) for high-performance video-based person Re-ID. Firstly, we couple CNNs and Transformers to extract two kinds of visual features and experimentally verify their complementarity. Further, in spatial, we propose a Complementary Content Attention (CCA) to take advantages of the coupled structure and guide independent features for spatial complementary learning. In temporal, a Hierarchical Temporal Aggregation (HTA) is proposed to progressively capture the inter-frame dependencies and encode temporal information. Besides, a gated attention is utilized to deliver aggregated temporal information into the CNN and Transformer branches for temporal complementary learning. Finally, we introduce a self-distillation training strategy to transfer the superior spatial-temporal knowledge to backbone networks for higher accuracy and more efficiency. In this way, two kinds of typical features from same videos are integrated mechanically for more informative representations. Extensive experiments on four public Re-ID benchmarks demonstrate that our framework could attain better performances than most state-of-the-art methods. 

**Title:** Exploiting Inductive Bias in Transformer for Point Cloud Classification  and Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14124

**Abstract:** Discovering inter-point connection for efficient high-dimensional feature extraction from point coordinate is a key challenge in processing point cloud. Most existing methods focus on designing efficient local feature extractors while ignoring global connection, or vice versa. In this paper, we design a new Inductive Bias-aided Transformer (IBT) method to learn 3D inter-point relations, which considers both local and global attentions. Specifically, considering local spatial coherence, local feature learning is performed through Relative Position Encoding and Attentive Feature Pooling. We incorporate the learned locality into the Transformer module. The local feature affects value component in Transformer to modulate the relationship between channels of each point, which can enhance self-attention mechanism with locality based channel interaction. We demonstrate its superiority experimentally on classification and segmentation tasks. The code is available at: https://github.com/jiamang/IBT 

**Title:** Human Semantic Segmentation using Millimeter-Wave Radar Sparse Point  Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14132

**Abstract:** This paper presents a framework for semantic segmentation on sparse sequential point clouds of millimeter-wave radar. Compared with cameras and lidars, millimeter-wave radars have the advantage of not revealing privacy, having a strong anti-interference ability, and having long detection distance. The sparsity and capturing temporal-topological features of mmWave data is still a problem. However, the issue of capturing the temporal-topological coupling features under the human semantic segmentation task prevents previous advanced segmentation methods (e.g PointNet, PointCNN, Point Transformer) from being well utilized in practical scenarios. To address the challenge caused by the sparsity and temporal-topological feature of the data, we (i) introduce graph structure and topological features to the point cloud, (ii) propose a semantic segmentation framework including a global feature-extracting module and a sequential feature-extracting module. In addition, we design an efficient and more fitting loss function for a better training process and segmentation results based on graph clustering. Experimentally, we deploy representative semantic segmentation algorithms (Transformer, GCNN, etc.) on a custom dataset. Experimental results indicate that our model achieves mean accuracy on the custom dataset by $\mathbf{82.31}\%$ and outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms. Moreover, to validate the model's robustness, we deploy our model on the well-known S3DIS dataset. On the S3DIS dataset, our model achieves mean accuracy by $\mathbf{92.6}\%$, outperforming baseline algorithms. 

**Title:** Figments and Misalignments: A Framework for Fine-grained Crossmodal  Misinformation Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14133

**Abstract:** Multimedia content has become ubiquitous on social media platforms, leading to the rise of multimodal misinformation and the urgent need for effective strategies to detect and prevent its spread. This study focuses on CrossModal Misinformation (CMM) where image-caption pairs work together to spread falsehoods. We contrast CMM with Asymmetric Multimodal Misinformation (AMM), where one dominant modality propagates falsehoods while other modalities have little or no influence. We show that AMM adds noise to the training and evaluation process while exacerbating the unimodal bias, where text-only or image-only detectors can seemingly outperform their multimodal counterparts on an inherently multimodal task. To address this issue, we collect and curate FIGMENTS, a robust evaluation benchmark for CMM, which consists of real world cases of misinformation, excludes AMM and utilizes modality balancing to successfully alleviate unimodal bias. FIGMENTS also provides a first step towards fine-grained CMM detection by including three classes: truthful, out-of-context, and miscaptioned image-caption pairs. Furthermore, we introduce a method for generating realistic synthetic training data that maintains crossmodal relations between legitimate images and false human-written captions that we term Crossmodal HArd Synthetic MisAlignment (CHASMA). We conduct extensive comparative study using a Transformer-based architecture. Our results show that incorporating CHASMA in conjunction with other generated datasets consistently improved the overall performance on FIGMENTS in both binary (+6.26%) and multiclass settings (+15.8%).We release our code at: https://github.com/stevejpapad/figments-and-misalignments 

**Title:** ChatGPT vs State-of-the-Art Models: A Benchmarking Study in Keyphrase  Generation Task  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14177

**Abstract:** Transformer-based language models, including ChatGPT, have demonstrated exceptional performance in various natural language generation tasks. However, there has been limited research evaluating ChatGPT's keyphrase generation ability, which involves identifying informative phrases that accurately reflect a document's content. This study seeks to address this gap by comparing ChatGPT's keyphrase generation performance with state-of-the-art models, while also testing its potential as a solution for two significant challenges in the field: domain adaptation and keyphrase generation from long documents. We conducted experiments on six publicly available datasets from scientific articles and news domains, analyzing performance on both short and long documents. Our results show that ChatGPT outperforms current state-of-the-art models in all tested datasets and environments, generating high-quality keyphrases that adapt well to diverse domains and document lengths. 

**Title:** NAP at SemEval-2023 Task 3: Is Less Really More? (Back-)Translation as  Data Augmentation Strategies for Detecting Persuasion Techniques  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14179

**Abstract:** Persuasion techniques detection in news in a multi-lingual setup is non-trivial and comes with challenges, including little training data. Our system successfully leverages (back-)translation as data augmentation strategies with multi-lingual transformer models for the task of detecting persuasion techniques. The automatic and human evaluation of our augmented data allows us to explore whether (back-)translation aid or hinder performance. Our in-depth analyses indicate that both data augmentation strategies boost performance; however, balancing human-produced and machine-generated data seems to be crucial. 

**Title:** AI, write an essay for me: A large-scale comparison of human-written  versus ChatGPT-generated essays  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14276

**Abstract:** Background: Recently, ChatGPT and similar generative AI models have attracted hundreds of millions of users and become part of the public discourse. Many believe that such models will disrupt society and will result in a significant change in the education system and information generation in the future. So far, this belief is based on either colloquial evidence or benchmarks from the owners of the models -- both lack scientific rigour. 

**Title:** EDAPS: Enhanced Domain-Adaptive Panoptic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14291

**Abstract:** With autonomous industries on the rise, domain adaptation of the visual perception stack is an important research direction due to the cost savings promise. Much prior art was dedicated to domain-adaptive semantic segmentation in the synthetic-to-real context. Despite being a crucial output of the perception stack, panoptic segmentation has been largely overlooked by the domain adaptation community. Therefore, we revisit well-performing domain adaptation strategies from other fields, adapt them to panoptic segmentation, and show that they can effectively enhance panoptic domain adaptation. Further, we study the panoptic network design and propose a novel architecture (EDAPS) designed explicitly for domain-adaptive panoptic segmentation. It uses a shared, domain-robust transformer encoder to facilitate the joint adaptation of semantic and instance features, but task-specific decoders tailored for the specific requirements of both domain-adaptive semantic and instance segmentation. As a result, the performance gap seen in challenging panoptic benchmarks is substantially narrowed. EDAPS significantly improves the state-of-the-art performance for panoptic segmentation UDA by a large margin of 25% on SYNTHIA-to-Cityscapes and even 72% on the more challenging SYNTHIA-to-Mapillary Vistas. The implementation is available at https://github.com/susaha/edaps. 

**Title:** Combining HoloLens with Instant-NeRFs: Advanced Real-Time 3D Mobile  Mapping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14301

**Abstract:** This work represents a large step into modern ways of fast 3D reconstruction based on RGB camera images. Utilizing a Microsoft HoloLens 2 as a multisensor platform that includes an RGB camera and an inertial measurement unit for SLAM-based camera-pose determination, we train a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) as a neural scene representation in real-time with the acquired data from the HoloLens. The HoloLens is connected via Wifi to a high-performance PC that is responsible for the training and 3D reconstruction. After the data stream ends, the training is stopped and the 3D reconstruction is initiated, which extracts a point cloud of the scene. With our specialized inference algorithm, five million scene points can be extracted within 1 second. In addition, the point cloud also includes radiometry per point. Our method of 3D reconstruction outperforms grid point sampling with NeRFs by multiple orders of magnitude and can be regarded as a complete real-time 3D reconstruction method in a mobile mapping setup. 

**Title:** Large Language Models Are State-of-the-Art Evaluators of Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14317

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in the field of natural language generation have facilitated the use of large language models to assess the quality of generated text. Although these models have shown promising results in tasks such as machine translation and summarization, their applicability in code generation tasks remains limited without human involvement. The complexity of programming concepts required for such tasks makes it difficult to develop evaluation metrics that align with human judgment. Token-matching-based metrics, such as BLEU, have demonstrated weak correlations with human practitioners in code generation tasks. Moreover, the utilization of human-written test suites to evaluate functional correctness can be challenging in domains with low resources. To overcome these obstacles, we propose a new evaluation framework based on the GPT-3.5 (\texttt{GPT-3.5-turbo}), for code generation assessments. Our framework addresses the limitations of existing approaches by achieving superior correlations with functional correctness and human preferences, without the need for test oracles or references. We evaluate the efficacy of our framework on two different tasks and four programming languages, comparing its performance with the state-of-the-art CodeBERTScore metric, which relies on a pre-trained model. Our results demonstrate that our framework surpasses CodeBERTScore, delivering high levels of accuracy and consistency across various programming languages and tasks. We also make our evaluation framework and datasets available to the public at \url{https://github.com/terryyz/llm-code-eval}, encouraging further research in the evaluation of code generation. 

**Title:** Idioms, Probing and Dangerous Things: Towards Structural Probing for  Idiomaticity in Vector Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14333

**Abstract:** The goal of this paper is to learn more about how idiomatic information is structurally encoded in embeddings, using a structural probing method. We repurpose an existing English verbal multi-word expression (MWE) dataset to suit the probing framework and perform a comparative probing study of static (GloVe) and contextual (BERT) embeddings. Our experiments indicate that both encode some idiomatic information to varying degrees, but yield conflicting evidence as to whether idiomaticity is encoded in the vector norm, leaving this an open question. We also identify some limitations of the used dataset and highlight important directions for future work in improving its suitability for a probing analysis. 

**Title:** ZeroShotDataAug: Generating and Augmenting Training Data with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14334

**Abstract:** In this paper, we investigate the use of data obtained from prompting a large generative language model, ChatGPT, to generate synthetic training data with the aim of augmenting data in low resource scenarios. We show that with appropriate task-specific ChatGPT prompts, we outperform the most popular existing approaches for such data augmentation. Furthermore, we investigate methodologies for evaluating the similarity of the augmented data generated from ChatGPT with the aim of validating and assessing the quality of the data generated. 

**Title:** The Dark Side of ChatGPT: Legal and Ethical Challenges from Stochastic  Parrots and Hallucination  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14347

**Abstract:** With the launch of ChatGPT, Large Language Models (LLMs) are shaking up our whole society, rapidly altering the way we think, create and live. For instance, the GPT integration in Bing has altered our approach to online searching. While nascent LLMs have many advantages, new legal and ethical risks are also emerging, stemming in particular from stochastic parrots and hallucination. The EU is the first and foremost jurisdiction that has focused on the regulation of AI models. However, the risks posed by the new LLMs are likely to be underestimated by the emerging EU regulatory paradigm. Therefore, this correspondence warns that the European AI regulatory paradigm must evolve further to mitigate such risks. 

**Title:** Epistemic considerations when AI answers questions for us  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14352

**Abstract:** In this position paper, we argue that careless reliance on AI to answer our questions and to judge our output is a violation of Grice's Maxim of Quality as well as a violation of Lemoine's legal Maxim of Innocence, performing an (unwarranted) authority fallacy, and while lacking assessment signals, committing Type II errors that result from fallacies of the inverse. What is missing in the focus on output and results of AI-generated and AI-evaluated content is, apart from paying proper tribute, the demand to follow a person's thought process (or a machine's decision processes). In deliberately avoiding Neural Networks that cannot explain how they come to their conclusions, we introduce logic-symbolic inference to handle any possible epistemics any human or artificial information processor may have. Our system can deal with various belief systems and shows how decisions may differ for what is true, false, realistic, unrealistic, literal, or anomalous. As is, stota AI such as ChatGPT is a sorcerer's apprentice. 

**Title:** Industrial Engineering with Large Language Models: A case study of  ChatGPT's performance on Oil & Gas problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14354

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown great potential in solving complex problems in various fields, including oil and gas engineering and other industrial engineering disciplines like factory automation, PLC programming etc. However, automatic identification of strong and weak solutions to fundamental physics equations governing several industrial processes remain a challenging task. This paper identifies the limitation of current LLM approaches, particularly ChatGPT in selected practical problems native to oil and gas engineering but not exclusively. The performance of ChatGPT in solving complex problems in oil and gas engineering is discussed and the areas where LLMs are most effective are presented. 

**Title:** CONSCENDI: A Contrastive and Scenario-Guided Distillation Approach to  Guardrail Models for Virtual Assistants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14364

**Abstract:** A wave of new task-based virtual assistants has been fueled by increasingly powerful large language models, such as GPT-4. These conversational agents can be customized to serve customer-specific use cases, but ensuring that agent-generated text conforms to designer-specified rules included in prompt instructions alone is challenging. Therefore, chatbot designers often use another model, called a guardrail model, to verify that the agent output aligns with their rules and constraints. We explore using a distillation approach to guardrail models to monitor the output of the first model using training data from GPT-4. We find two crucial steps to our CONSCENDI process: scenario-augmented generation and contrastive training examples. When generating conversational data, we generate a set of rule-breaking scenarios, which enumerate a diverse set of high-level ways a rule can be violated. This scenario-guided approach produces a diverse training set of rule-violating conversations, and it provides chatbot designers greater control over the classification process. We also prompt GPT-4 to also generate contrastive examples by altering conversations with violations into acceptable conversations. This set of borderline, contrastive examples enables the distilled model to learn finer-grained distinctions between what is acceptable and what is not. We find that CONSCENDI results in guardrail models that improve over baselines. 

**Title:** Functional Diffusion Maps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14378

**Abstract:** Nowadays many real-world datasets can be considered as functional, in the sense that the processes which generate them are continuous. A fundamental property of this type of data is that in theory they belong to an infinite-dimensional space. Although in practice we usually receive finite observations, they are still high-dimensional and hence dimensionality reduction methods are crucial. In this vein, the main state-of-the-art method for functional data analysis is Functional PCA. Nevertheless, this classic technique assumes that the data lie in a linear manifold, and hence it could have problems when this hypothesis is not fulfilled. In this research, attention has been placed on a non-linear manifold learning method: Diffusion Maps. The article explains how to extend this multivariate method to functional data and compares its behavior against Functional PCA over different simulated and real examples. 

**Title:** SeqTrack: Sequence to Sequence Learning for Visual Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14394

**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a new sequence-to-sequence learning framework for visual tracking, dubbed SeqTrack. It casts visual tracking as a sequence generation problem, which predicts object bounding boxes in an autoregressive fashion. This is different from prior Siamese trackers and transformer trackers, which rely on designing complicated head networks, such as classification and regression heads. SeqTrack only adopts a simple encoder-decoder transformer architecture. The encoder extracts visual features with a bidirectional transformer, while the decoder generates a sequence of bounding box values autoregressively with a causal transformer. The loss function is a plain cross-entropy. Such a sequence learning paradigm not only simplifies tracking framework, but also achieves competitive performance on benchmarks. For instance, SeqTrack gets 72.5% AUC on LaSOT, establishing a new state-of-the-art performance. Code and models are available at here. 

**Title:** We're Afraid Language Models Aren't Modeling Ambiguity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14399

**Abstract:** Ambiguity is an intrinsic feature of natural language. Managing ambiguity is a key part of human language understanding, allowing us to anticipate misunderstanding as communicators and revise our interpretations as listeners. As language models (LMs) are increasingly employed as dialogue interfaces and writing aids, handling ambiguous language is critical to their success. We characterize ambiguity in a sentence by its effect on entailment relations with another sentence, and collect AmbiEnt, a linguist-annotated benchmark of 1,645 examples with diverse kinds of ambiguity. We design a suite of tests based on AmbiEnt, presenting the first evaluation of pretrained LMs to recognize ambiguity and disentangle possible meanings. We find that the task remains extremely challenging, including for the recent GPT-4, whose generated disambiguations are considered correct only 32% of the time in human evaluation, compared to 90% for disambiguations in our dataset. Finally, to illustrate the value of ambiguity-sensitive tools, we show that a multilabel NLI model can flag political claims in the wild that are misleading due to ambiguity. We encourage the field to rediscover the importance of ambiguity for NLP. 

**Title:** IconShop: Text-Based Vector Icon Synthesis with Autoregressive  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14400

**Abstract:** Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is a prevalent vector image format with good support for interactivity and animation. Despite such appealing characteristics, it is generally challenging for users to create their own SVG content because of the long learning curve to comprehend SVG grammars or acquaint themselves with professional editing software. Recent progress in text-to-image generation has inspired researchers to explore image-based icon synthesis (i.e., text -> raster image -> vector image) via differential rendering and language-based icon synthesis (i.e., text -> vector image script) via the "zero-shot" capabilities of large language models. However, these methods may suffer from several limitations regarding generation quality, diversity, flexibility, and speed. In this paper, we introduce IconShop, a text-guided vector icon synthesis method using an autoregressive transformer. The key to success of our approach is to sequentialize and tokenize the SVG paths (and textual descriptions) into a uniquely decodable command sequence. With such a single sequence as input, we are able to fully exploit the sequence learning power of autoregressive transformers, while enabling various icon synthesis and manipulation tasks. Through standard training to predict the next token on a large-scale icon dataset accompanied by textural descriptions, the proposed IconShop consistently exhibits better icon synthesis performance than existing image-based and language-based methods both quantitatively (using the FID and CLIP score) and qualitatively (through visual inspection). Meanwhile, we observe a dramatic improvement in generation diversity, which is supported by objective measures (Uniqueness and Novelty). More importantly, we demonstrate the flexibility of IconShop with two novel icon manipulation tasks - text-guided icon infilling, and text-combined icon synthesis. 

**Title:** ActorsNeRF: Animatable Few-shot Human Rendering with Generalizable NeRFs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14401

**Abstract:** While NeRF-based human representations have shown impressive novel view synthesis results, most methods still rely on a large number of images / views for training. In this work, we propose a novel animatable NeRF called ActorsNeRF. It is first pre-trained on diverse human subjects, and then adapted with few-shot monocular video frames for a new actor with unseen poses. Building on previous generalizable NeRFs with parameter sharing using a ConvNet encoder, ActorsNeRF further adopts two human priors to capture the large human appearance, shape, and pose variations. Specifically, in the encoded feature space, we will first align different human subjects in a category-level canonical space, and then align the same human from different frames in an instance-level canonical space for rendering. We quantitatively and qualitatively demonstrate that ActorsNeRF significantly outperforms the existing state-of-the-art on few-shot generalization to new people and poses on multiple datasets. Project Page: https://jitengmu.github.io/ActorsNeRF/ 

**Title:** Make It So: Steering StyleGAN for Any Image Inversion and Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14403

**Abstract:** StyleGAN's disentangled style representation enables powerful image editing by manipulating the latent variables, but accurately mapping real-world images to their latent variables (GAN inversion) remains a challenge. Existing GAN inversion methods struggle to maintain editing directions and produce realistic results. 

**Title:** Motion-Conditioned Diffusion Model for Controllable Video Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14404

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in diffusion models have greatly improved the quality and diversity of synthesized content. To harness the expressive power of diffusion models, researchers have explored various controllable mechanisms that allow users to intuitively guide the content synthesis process. Although the latest efforts have primarily focused on video synthesis, there has been a lack of effective methods for controlling and describing desired content and motion. In response to this gap, we introduce MCDiff, a conditional diffusion model that generates a video from a starting image frame and a set of strokes, which allow users to specify the intended content and dynamics for synthesis. To tackle the ambiguity of sparse motion inputs and achieve better synthesis quality, MCDiff first utilizes a flow completion model to predict the dense video motion based on the semantic understanding of the video frame and the sparse motion control. Then, the diffusion model synthesizes high-quality future frames to form the output video. We qualitatively and quantitatively show that MCDiff achieves the state-the-of-art visual quality in stroke-guided controllable video synthesis. Additional experiments on MPII Human Pose further exhibit the capability of our model on diverse content and motion synthesis. 

**Title:** Putting People in Their Place: Affordance-Aware Human Insertion into  Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14406

**Abstract:** We study the problem of inferring scene affordances by presenting a method for realistically inserting people into scenes. Given a scene image with a marked region and an image of a person, we insert the person into the scene while respecting the scene affordances. Our model can infer the set of realistic poses given the scene context, re-pose the reference person, and harmonize the composition. We set up the task in a self-supervised fashion by learning to re-pose humans in video clips. We train a large-scale diffusion model on a dataset of 2.4M video clips that produces diverse plausible poses while respecting the scene context. Given the learned human-scene composition, our model can also hallucinate realistic people and scenes when prompted without conditioning and also enables interactive editing. A quantitative evaluation shows that our method synthesizes more realistic human appearance and more natural human-scene interactions than prior work. 

**Title:** Phenotyping with Positive Unlabelled Learning for Genome-Wide  Association Studies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2202.07451

**Abstract:** Identifying phenotypes plays an important role in furthering our understanding of disease biology through practical applications within healthcare and the life sciences. The challenge of dealing with the complexities and noise within electronic health records (EHRs) has motivated applications of machine learning in phenotypic discovery. While recent research has focused on finding predictive subtypes for clinical decision support, here we instead focus on the noise that results in phenotypic misclassification, which can reduce a phenotypes ability to detect associations in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We show that by combining anchor learning and transformer architectures into our proposed model, AnchorBERT, we are able to detect genomic associations only previously found in large consortium studies with 5$\times$ more cases. When reducing the number of controls available by 50\%, we find our model is able to maintain 40\% more significant genomic associations from the GWAS catalog compared to standard phenotype definitions. \keywords{Phenotyping \and Machine Learning \and Semi-Supervised \and Genetic Association Studies \and Biological Discovery} 

**Title:** Text-to-Audio Generation using Instruction-Tuned LLM and Latent  Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13731

**Abstract:** The immense scale of the recent large language models (LLM) allows many interesting properties, such as, instruction- and chain-of-thought-based fine-tuning, that has significantly improved zero- and few-shot performance in many natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Inspired by such successes, we adopt such an instruction-tuned LLM Flan-T5 as the text encoder for text-to-audio (TTA) generation -- a task where the goal is to generate an audio from its textual description. The prior works on TTA either pre-trained a joint text-audio encoder or used a non-instruction-tuned model, such as, T5. Consequently, our latent diffusion model (LDM)-based approach TANGO outperforms the state-of-the-art AudioLDM on most metrics and stays comparable on the rest on AudioCaps test set, despite training the LDM on a 63 times smaller dataset and keeping the text encoder frozen. This improvement might also be attributed to the adoption of audio pressure level-based sound mixing for training set augmentation, whereas the prior methods take a random mix. 

**Title:** Extracting Structured Seed-Mediated Gold Nanorod Growth Procedures from  Literature with GPT-3  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.13846

**Abstract:** Although gold nanorods have been the subject of much research, the pathways for controlling their shape and thereby their optical properties remain largely heuristically understood. Although it is apparent that the simultaneous presence of and interaction between various reagents during synthesis control these properties, computational and experimental approaches for exploring the synthesis space can be either intractable or too time-consuming in practice. This motivates an alternative approach leveraging the wealth of synthesis information already embedded in the body of scientific literature by developing tools to extract relevant structured data in an automated, high-throughput manner. To that end, we present an approach using the powerful GPT-3 language model to extract structured multi-step seed-mediated growth procedures and outcomes for gold nanorods from unstructured scientific text. GPT-3 prompt completions are fine-tuned to predict synthesis templates in the form of JSON documents from unstructured text input with an overall accuracy of $86\%$. The performance is notable, considering the model is performing simultaneous entity recognition and relation extraction. We present a dataset of 11,644 entities extracted from 1,137 papers, resulting in 268 papers with at least one complete seed-mediated gold nanorod growth procedure and outcome for a total of 332 complete procedures. 

**Title:** TempEE: Temporal-Spatial Parallel Transformer for Radar Echo  Extrapolation Beyond Auto-Regression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14131

**Abstract:** The meteorological radar reflectivity data, also known as echo, plays a crucial role in predicting precipitation and enabling accurate and fast forecasting of short-term heavy rainfall without the need for complex Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) model. Compared to conventional model, Deep Learning (DL)-based radar echo extrapolation algorithms are more effective and efficient. However, the development of highly reliable and generalized algorithms is hindered by three main bottlenecks: cumulative error spreading, imprecise representation of sparse echo distribution, and inaccurate description of non-stationary motion process. To address these issues, this paper presents a novel radar echo extrapolation algorithm that utilizes temporal-spatial correlation features and the Transformer technology. The algorithm extracts features from multi-frame echo images that accurately represent non-stationary motion processes for precipitation prediction. The proposed algorithm uses a novel parallel encoder based on Transformer technology to effectively and automatically extract echoes' temporal-spatial features. Furthermore, a Multi-level Temporal-Spatial attention mechanism is adopted to enhance the ability to perceive global-local information and highlight the task-related feature regions in a lightweight way. The proposed method's effectiveness has been valided on the classic radar echo extrapolation task using the real-world dataset. Numerous experiments have further demonstrated the effectiveness and necessity of various components of the proposed method. 

**Title:** Distinguishing a planetary transit from false positives: a  Transformer-based classification for planetary transit signals  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14283

**Abstract:** Current space-based missions, such as the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS), provide a large database of light curves that must be analysed efficiently and systematically. In recent years, deep learning (DL) methods, particularly convolutional neural networks (CNN), have been used to classify transit signals of candidate exoplanets automatically. However, CNNs have some drawbacks; for example, they require many layers to capture dependencies on sequential data, such as light curves, making the network so large that it eventually becomes impractical. The self-attention mechanism is a DL technique that attempts to mimic the action of selectively focusing on some relevant things while ignoring others. Models, such as the Transformer architecture, were recently proposed for sequential data with successful results. Based on these successful models, we present a new architecture for the automatic classification of transit signals. Our proposed architecture is designed to capture the most significant features of a transit signal and stellar parameters through the self-attention mechanism. In addition to model prediction, we take advantage of attention map inspection, obtaining a more interpretable DL approach. Thus, we can identify the relevance of each element to differentiate a transit signal from false positives, simplifying the manual examination of candidates. We show that our architecture achieves competitive results concerning the CNNs applied for recognizing exoplanetary transit signals in data from the TESS telescope. Based on these results, we demonstrate that applying this state-of-the-art DL model to light curves can be a powerful technique for transit signal detection while offering a level of interpretability. 

