**Title:** Transformer-based Self-supervised Multimodal Representation Learning for  Wearable Emotion Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17611

**Abstract:** Recently, wearable emotion recognition based on peripheral physiological signals has drawn massive attention due to its less invasive nature and its applicability in real-life scenarios. However, how to effectively fuse multimodal data remains a challenging problem. Moreover, traditional fully-supervised based approaches suffer from overfitting given limited labeled data. To address the above issues, we propose a novel self-supervised learning (SSL) framework for wearable emotion recognition, where efficient multimodal fusion is realized with temporal convolution-based modality-specific encoders and a transformer-based shared encoder, capturing both intra-modal and inter-modal correlations. Extensive unlabeled data is automatically assigned labels by five signal transforms, and the proposed SSL model is pre-trained with signal transformation recognition as a pretext task, allowing the extraction of generalized multimodal representations for emotion-related downstream tasks. For evaluation, the proposed SSL model was first pre-trained on a large-scale self-collected physiological dataset and the resulting encoder was subsequently frozen or fine-tuned on three public supervised emotion recognition datasets. Ultimately, our SSL-based method achieved state-of-the-art results in various emotion classification tasks. Meanwhile, the proposed model proved to be more accurate and robust compared to fully-supervised methods on low data regimes. 

**Title:** oBERTa: Improving Sparse Transfer Learning via improved initialization,  distillation, and pruning regimes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17612

**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce the range of oBERTa language models, an easy-to-use set of language models, which allows Natural Language Processing (NLP) practitioners to obtain between 3.8 and 24.3 times faster models without expertise in model compression. Specifically, oBERTa extends existing work on pruning, knowledge distillation, and quantization and leverages frozen embeddings to improve knowledge distillation, and improved model initialization to deliver higher accuracy on a a broad range of transfer tasks. In generating oBERTa, we explore how the highly optimized RoBERTa differs from the BERT with respect to pruning during pre-training and fine-tuning and find it less amenable to compression during fine-tuning. We explore the use of oBERTa on a broad seven representative NLP tasks and find that the improved compression techniques allow a pruned oBERTa model to match the performance of BERTBASE and exceed the performance of Prune OFA Large on the SQUAD V1.1 Question Answering dataset, despite being 8x and 2x, respectively, faster in inference. We release our code, training regimes, and associated model for broad usage to encourage usage and experimentation. 

**Title:** Whether and When does Endoscopy Domain Pretraining Make Sense?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17636

**Abstract:** Automated endoscopy video analysis is a challenging task in medical computer vision, with the primary objective of assisting surgeons during procedures. The difficulty arises from the complexity of surgical scenes and the lack of a sufficient amount of annotated data. In recent years, large-scale pretraining has shown great success in natural language processing and computer vision communities. These approaches reduce the need for annotated data, which is always a concern in the medical domain. However, most works on endoscopic video understanding use models pretrained on natural images, creating a domain gap between pretraining and finetuning. In this work, we investigate the need for endoscopy domain-specific pretraining based on downstream objectives. To this end, we first collect Endo700k, the largest publicly available corpus of endoscopic images, extracted from nine public Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) datasets. Endo700k comprises more than 700,000 unannotated raw images. Next, we introduce EndoViT, an endoscopy pretrained Vision Transformer (ViT). Through ablations, we demonstrate that domain-specific pretraining is particularly beneficial for more complex downstream tasks, such as Action Triplet Detection, and less effective and even unnecessary for simpler tasks, such as Surgical Phase Recognition. We will release both our code and pretrained models upon acceptance to facilitate further research in this direction. 

**Title:** Aligning a medium-size GPT model in English to a small closed domain in  Spanish using reinforcement learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17649

**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a methodology to align a medium-sized GPT model, originally trained in English for an open domain, to a small closed domain in Spanish. The application for which the model is finely tuned is the question answering task. To achieve this we also needed to train and implement another neural network (which we called the reward model) that could score and determine whether an answer is appropriate for a given question. This component served to improve the decoding and generation of the answers of the system. Numerical metrics such as BLEU and perplexity were used to evaluate the model, and human judgment was also used to compare the decoding technique with others. Finally, the results favored the proposed method, and it was determined that it is feasible to use a reward model to align the generation of responses. 

**Title:** Comparing Abstractive Summaries Generated by ChatGPT to Real Summaries  Through Blinded Reviewers and Text Classification Algorithms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17650

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have gathered significant attention due to their impressive performance on a variety of tasks. ChatGPT, developed by OpenAI, is a recent addition to the family of language models and is being called a disruptive technology by a few, owing to its human-like text-generation capabilities. Although, many anecdotal examples across the internet have evaluated ChatGPT's strength and weakness, only a few systematic research studies exist. To contribute to the body of literature of systematic research on ChatGPT, we evaluate the performance of ChatGPT on Abstractive Summarization by the means of automated metrics and blinded human reviewers. We also build automatic text classifiers to detect ChatGPT generated summaries. We found that while text classification algorithms can distinguish between real and generated summaries, humans are unable to distinguish between real summaries and those produced by ChatGPT. 

**Title:** Self-Refine: Iterative Refinement with Self-Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17651

**Abstract:** Like people, LLMs do not always generate the best text for a given generation problem on their first try (e.g., summaries, answers, explanations). Just as people then refine their text, we introduce SELF-REFINE, a framework for similarly improving initial outputs from LLMs through iterative feedback and refinement. The main idea is to generate an output using an LLM, then allow the same model to provide multi-aspect feedback for its own output; finally, the same model refines its previously generated output given its own feedback. Unlike earlier work, our iterative refinement framework does not require supervised training data or reinforcement learning, and works with a single LLM. We experiment with 7 diverse tasks, ranging from review rewriting to math reasoning, demonstrating that our approach outperforms direct generation. In all tasks, outputs generated with SELF-REFINE are preferred by humans and by automated metrics over those generated directly with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, improving on average by absolute 20% across tasks. 

**Title:** Fine-Tuning BERT with Character-Level Noise for Zero-Shot Transfer to  Dialects and Closely-Related Languages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17683

**Abstract:** In this work, we induce character-level noise in various forms when fine-tuning BERT to enable zero-shot cross-lingual transfer to unseen dialects and languages. We fine-tune BERT on three sentence-level classification tasks and evaluate our approach on an assortment of unseen dialects and languages. We find that character-level noise can be an extremely effective agent of cross-lingual transfer under certain conditions, while it is not as helpful in others. Specifically, we explore these differences in terms of the nature of the task and the relationships between source and target languages, finding that introduction of character-level noise during fine-tuning is particularly helpful when a task draws on surface level cues and the source-target cross-lingual pair has a relatively high lexical overlap with shorter (i.e., less meaningful) unseen tokens on average. 

**Title:** If At First You Don't Succeed: Test Time Re-ranking for Zero-shot,  Cross-domain Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17703

**Abstract:** In this paper we propose a novel method for zero-shot, cross-domain image retrieval in which we make two key contributions. The first is a test-time re-ranking procedure that enables query-gallery pairs, without meaningful shared visual features, to be matched by incorporating gallery-gallery ranks into an iterative re-ranking process. The second is the use of cross-attention at training time and knowledge distillation to encourage cross-attention-like features to be extracted at test time from a single image. When combined with the Vision Transformer architecture and zero-shot retrieval losses, our approach yields state-of-the-art results on the Sketchy and TU-Berlin sketch-based image retrieval benchmarks. However, unlike many previous methods, none of the components in our approach are engineered specifically towards the sketch-based image retrieval task - it can be generally applied to any cross-domain, zero-shot retrieval task. We therefore also show results on zero-shot cartoon-to-photo retrieval using the Office-Home dataset. 

**Title:** Evaluation of GPT and BERT-based models on identifying protein-protein  interactions in biomedical text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17728

**Abstract:** Detecting protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is crucial for understanding genetic mechanisms, disease pathogenesis, and drug design. However, with the fast-paced growth of biomedical literature, there is a growing need for automated and accurate extraction of PPIs to facilitate scientific knowledge discovery. Pre-trained language models, such as generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) and bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT), have shown promising results in natural language processing (NLP) tasks. We evaluated the PPI identification performance of various GPT and BERT models using a manually curated benchmark corpus of 164 PPIs in 77 sentences from learning language in logic (LLL). BERT-based models achieved the best overall performance, with PubMedBERT achieving the highest precision (85.17%) and F1-score (86.47%) and BioM-ALBERT achieving the highest recall (93.83%). Despite not being explicitly trained for biomedical texts, GPT-4 achieved comparable performance to the best BERT models with 83.34% precision, 76.57% recall, and 79.18% F1-score. These findings suggest that GPT models can effectively detect PPIs from text data and have the potential for use in biomedical literature mining tasks. 

**Title:** CrossLoc3D: Aerial-Ground Cross-Source 3D Place Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17778

**Abstract:** We present CrossLoc3D, a novel 3D place recognition method that solves a large-scale point matching problem in a cross-source setting. Cross-source point cloud data corresponds to point sets captured by depth sensors with different accuracies or from different distances and perspectives. We address the challenges in terms of developing 3D place recognition methods that account for the representation gap between points captured by different sources. Our method handles cross-source data by utilizing multi-grained features and selecting convolution kernel sizes that correspond to most prominent features. Inspired by the diffusion models, our method uses a novel iterative refinement process that gradually shifts the embedding spaces from different sources to a single canonical space for better metric learning. In addition, we present CS-Campus3D, the first 3D aerial-ground cross-source dataset consisting of point cloud data from both aerial and ground LiDAR scans. The point clouds in CS-Campus3D have representation gaps and other features like different views, point densities, and noise patterns. We show that our CrossLoc3D algorithm can achieve an improvement of 4.74% - 15.37% in terms of the top 1 average recall on our CS-Campus3D benchmark and achieves performance comparable to state-of-the-art 3D place recognition method on the Oxford RobotCar. We will release the code and CS-Campus3D benchmark. 

**Title:** SOSR: Source-Free Image Super-Resolution with Wavelet Augmentation  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17783

**Abstract:** Real-world images taken by different cameras with different degradation kernels often result in a cross-device domain gap in image super-resolution. A prevalent attempt to this issue is unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) that needs to access source data. Considering privacy policies or transmission restrictions of data in many practical applications, we propose a SOurce-free image Super-Resolution framework (SOSR) to address this issue, i.e., adapt a model pre-trained on labeled source data to a target domain with only unlabeled target data. SOSR leverages the source model to generate refined pseudo-labels for teacher-student learning. To better utilize the pseudo-labels, this paper proposes a novel wavelet-based augmentation method, named Wavelet Augmentation Transformer (WAT), which can be flexibly incorporated with existing networks, to implicitly produce useful augmented data. WAT learns low-frequency information of varying levels across diverse samples, which is aggregated efficiently via deformable attention. Furthermore, an uncertainty-aware self-training mechanism is proposed to improve the accuracy of pseudo-labels, with inaccurate predictions being rectified by uncertainty estimation. To acquire better SR results and avoid overfitting pseudo-labels, several regularization losses are proposed to constrain the frequency information between target LR and SR images. Experiments show that without accessing source data, SOSR achieves superior results to the state-of-the-art UDA methods. 

**Title:** Attention is Not Always What You Need: Towards Efficient Classification  of Domain-Specific Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17786

**Abstract:** For large-scale IT corpora with hundreds of classes organized in a hierarchy, the task of accurate classification of classes at the higher level in the hierarchies is crucial to avoid errors propagating to the lower levels. In the business world, an efficient and explainable ML model is preferred over an expensive black-box model, especially if the performance increase is marginal. A current trend in the Natural Language Processing (NLP) community is towards employing huge pre-trained language models (PLMs) or what is known as self-attention models (e.g., BERT) for almost any kind of NLP task (e.g., question-answering, sentiment analysis, text classification). Despite the widespread use of PLMs and the impressive performance in a broad range of NLP tasks, there is a lack of a clear and well-justified need to as why these models are being employed for domain-specific text classification (TC) tasks, given the monosemic nature of specialized words (i.e., jargon) found in domain-specific text which renders the purpose of contextualized embeddings (e.g., PLMs) futile. In this paper, we compare the accuracies of some state-of-the-art (SOTA) models reported in the literature against a Linear SVM classifier and TFIDF vectorization model on three TC datasets. Results show a comparable performance for the LinearSVM. The findings of this study show that for domain-specific TC tasks, a linear model can provide a comparable, cheap, reproducible, and interpretable alternative to attention-based models. 

**Title:** Rethinking Local Perception in Lightweight Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17803

**Abstract:** Vision Transformers (ViTs) have been shown to be effective in various vision tasks. However, resizing them to a mobile-friendly size leads to significant performance degradation. Therefore, developing lightweight vision transformers has become a crucial area of research. This paper introduces CloFormer, a lightweight vision transformer that leverages context-aware local enhancement. CloFormer explores the relationship between globally shared weights often used in vanilla convolutional operators and token-specific context-aware weights appearing in attention, then proposes an effective and straightforward module to capture high-frequency local information. In CloFormer, we introduce AttnConv, a convolution operator in attention's style. The proposed AttnConv uses shared weights to aggregate local information and deploys carefully designed context-aware weights to enhance local features. The combination of the AttnConv and vanilla attention which uses pooling to reduce FLOPs in CloFormer enables the model to perceive high-frequency and low-frequency information. Extensive experiments were conducted in image classification, object detection, and semantic segmentation, demonstrating the superiority of CloFormer. 

**Title:** Exploring the Potential of Large Language models in Traditional Korean  Medicine: A Foundation Model Approach to Culturally-Adapted Healthcare  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17807

**Abstract:** Introduction: Traditional Korean medicine (TKM) emphasizes individualized diagnosis and treatment, making AI modeling difficult due to limited data and implicit processes. GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, large language models, have shown impressive medical knowledge despite lacking medicine-specific training. This study aimed to assess the capabilities of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 for TKM using the Korean National Licensing Examination for Korean Medicine Doctors. Methods: GPT-3.5 (February 2023) and GPT-4 (March 2023) models answered 340 questions from the 2022 examination across 12 subjects. Each question was independently evaluated five times in an initialized session. Results: GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 achieved 42.06% and 57.29% accuracy, respectively, with GPT-4 nearing passing performance. There were significant differences in accuracy by subjects, with 83.75% accuracy for neuropsychiatry compared to 28.75% for internal medicine (2). Both models showed high accuracy in recall-based and diagnosis-based questions but struggled with intervention-based ones. The accuracy for questions that require TKM-specialized knowledge was relatively lower than the accuracy for questions that do not GPT-4 showed high accuracy for table-based questions, and both models demonstrated consistent responses. A positive correlation between consistency and accuracy was observed. Conclusion: Models in this study showed near-passing performance in decision-making for TKM without domain-specific training. However, limits were also observed that were believed to be caused by culturally-biased learning. Our study suggests that foundation models have potential in culturally-adapted medicine, specifically TKM, for clinical assistance, medical education, and medical research. 

**Title:** Zero-shot Referring Image Segmentation with Global-Local Context  Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17811

**Abstract:** Referring image segmentation (RIS) aims to find a segmentation mask given a referring expression grounded to a region of the input image. Collecting labelled datasets for this task, however, is notoriously costly and labor-intensive. To overcome this issue, we propose a simple yet effective zero-shot referring image segmentation method by leveraging the pre-trained cross-modal knowledge from CLIP. In order to obtain segmentation masks grounded to the input text, we propose a mask-guided visual encoder that captures global and local contextual information of an input image. By utilizing instance masks obtained from off-the-shelf mask proposal techniques, our method is able to segment fine-detailed Istance-level groundings. We also introduce a global-local text encoder where the global feature captures complex sentence-level semantics of the entire input expression while the local feature focuses on the target noun phrase extracted by a dependency parser. In our experiments, the proposed method outperforms several zero-shot baselines of the task and even the weakly supervised referring expression segmentation method with substantial margins. Our code is available at https://github.com/Seonghoon-Yu/Zero-shot-RIS. 

**Title:** APPT : Asymmetric Parallel Point Transformer for 3D Point Cloud  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17815

**Abstract:** Transformer-based networks have achieved impressive performance in 3D point cloud understanding. However, most of them concentrate on aggregating local features, but neglect to directly model global dependencies, which results in a limited effective receptive field. Besides, how to effectively incorporate local and global components also remains challenging. To tackle these problems, we propose Asymmetric Parallel Point Transformer (APPT). Specifically, we introduce Global Pivot Attention to extract global features and enlarge the effective receptive field. Moreover, we design the Asymmetric Parallel structure to effectively integrate local and global information. Combined with these designs, APPT is able to capture features globally throughout the entire network while focusing on local-detailed features. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms the priors and achieves state-of-the-art on several benchmarks for 3D point cloud understanding, such as 3D semantic segmentation on S3DIS, 3D shape classification on ModelNet40, and 3D part segmentation on ShapeNet. 

**Title:** GlyphDraw: Learning to Draw Chinese Characters in Image Synthesis Models  Coherently  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17870

**Abstract:** Recent breakthroughs in the field of language-guided image generation have yielded impressive achievements, enabling the creation of high-quality and diverse images based on user instructions. Although the synthesis performance is fascinating, one significant limitation of current image generation models is their insufficient ability to generate coherent text within images, particularly for complex glyph structures like Chinese characters. To address this problem, we introduce GlyphDraw, a general learning framework aiming at endowing image generation models with the capacity to generate images embedded with coherent text. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work in the field of image synthesis to address the generation of Chinese characters. % we first adopt the OCR technique to collect images with Chinese characters as training samples, and extract the text and locations as auxiliary information. We first sophisticatedly design the image-text dataset's construction strategy, then build our model specifically on a diffusion-based image generator and carefully modify the network structure to allow the model to learn drawing Chinese characters with the help of glyph and position information. Furthermore, we maintain the model's open-domain image synthesis capability by preventing catastrophic forgetting by using a variety of training techniques. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate that our method not only produces accurate Chinese characters as in prompts, but also naturally blends the generated text into the background. Please refer to https://1073521013.github.io/glyph-draw.github.io 

**Title:** Visual Anomaly Detection via Dual-Attention Transformer and  Discriminative Flow  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17882

**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce the novel state-of-the-art Dual-attention Transformer and Discriminative Flow (DADF) framework for visual anomaly detection. Based on only normal knowledge, visual anomaly detection has wide applications in industrial scenarios and has attracted significant attention. However, most existing methods fail to meet the requirements. In contrast, the proposed DTDF presents a new paradigm: it firstly leverages a pre-trained network to acquire multi-scale prior embeddings, followed by the development of a vision Transformer with dual attention mechanisms, namely self-attention and memorial-attention, to achieve two-level reconstruction for prior embeddings with the sequential and normality association. Additionally, we propose using normalizing flow to establish discriminative likelihood for the joint distribution of prior and reconstructions at each scale. The DADF achieves 98.3/98.4 of image/pixel AUROC on Mvtec AD; 83.7 of image AUROC and 67.4 of pixel sPRO on Mvtec LOCO AD benchmarks, demonstrating the effectiveness of our proposed approach. 

**Title:** 3D-aware Image Generation using 2D Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17905

**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce a novel 3D-aware image generation method that leverages 2D diffusion models. We formulate the 3D-aware image generation task as multiview 2D image set generation, and further to a sequential unconditional-conditional multiview image generation process. This allows us to utilize 2D diffusion models to boost the generative modeling power of the method. Additionally, we incorporate depth information from monocular depth estimators to construct the training data for the conditional diffusion model using only still images. We train our method on a large-scale dataset, i.e., ImageNet, which is not addressed by previous methods. It produces high-quality images that significantly outperform prior methods. Furthermore, our approach showcases its capability to generate instances with large view angles, even though the training images are diverse and unaligned, gathered from "in-the-wild" real-world environments. 

**Title:** Pay Attention: Accuracy Versus Interpretability Trade-off in Fine-tuned  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17908

**Abstract:** The recent progress of diffusion models in terms of image quality has led to a major shift in research related to generative models. Current approaches often fine-tune pre-trained foundation models using domain-specific text-to-image pairs. This approach is straightforward for X-ray image generation due to the high availability of radiology reports linked to specific images. However, current approaches hardly ever look at attention layers to verify whether the models understand what they are generating. In this paper, we discover an important trade-off between image fidelity and interpretability in generative diffusion models. In particular, we show that fine-tuning text-to-image models with learnable text encoder leads to a lack of interpretability of diffusion models. Finally, we demonstrate the interpretability of diffusion models by showing that keeping the language encoder frozen, enables diffusion models to achieve state-of-the-art phrase grounding performance on certain diseases for a challenging multi-label segmentation task, without any additional training. Code and models will be available at https://github.com/MischaD/chest-distillation. 

**Title:** Selective Knowledge Distillation for Non-Autoregressive Neural Machine  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17910

**Abstract:** Benefiting from the sequence-level knowledge distillation, the Non-Autoregressive Transformer (NAT) achieves great success in neural machine translation tasks. However, existing knowledge distillation has side effects, such as propagating errors from the teacher to NAT students, which may limit further improvements of NAT models and are rarely discussed in existing research. In this paper, we introduce selective knowledge distillation by introducing an NAT evaluator to select NAT-friendly targets that are of high quality and easy to learn. In addition, we introduce a simple yet effective progressive distillation method to boost NAT performance. Experiment results on multiple WMT language directions and several representative NAT models show that our approach can realize a flexible trade-off between the quality and complexity of training data for NAT models, achieving strong performances. Further analysis shows that distilling only 5% of the raw translations can help an NAT outperform its counterpart trained on raw data by about 2.4 BLEU. 

**Title:** IC-FPS: Instance-Centroid Faster Point Sampling Module for 3D Point-base  Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17921

**Abstract:** 3D object detection is one of the most important tasks in autonomous driving and robotics. Our research focuses on tackling low efficiency issue of point-based methods on large-scale point clouds. Existing point-based methods adopt farthest point sampling (FPS) strategy for downsampling, which is computationally expensive in terms of inference time and memory consumption when the number of point cloud increases. In order to improve efficiency, we propose a novel Instance-Centroid Faster Point Sampling Module (IC-FPS) , which effectively replaces the first Set Abstraction (SA) layer that is extremely tedious. IC-FPS module is comprised of two methods, local feature diffusion based background point filter (LFDBF) and Centroid-Instance Sampling Strategy (CISS). LFDBF is constructed to exclude most invalid background points, while CISS substitutes FPS strategy by fast sampling centroids and instance points. IC-FPS module can be inserted to almost every point-based models. Extensive experiments on multiple public benchmarks have demonstrated the superiority of IC-FPS. On Waymo dataset, the proposed module significantly improves performance of baseline model and accelerates inference speed by 3.8 times. For the first time, real-time detection of point-based models in large-scale point cloud scenario is realized. 

**Title:** Unsupervised Anomaly Detection and Localization of Machine Audio: A  GAN-based Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17949

**Abstract:** Automatic detection of machine anomaly remains challenging for machine learning. We believe the capability of generative adversarial network (GAN) suits the need of machine audio anomaly detection, yet rarely has this been investigated by previous work. In this paper, we propose AEGAN-AD, a totally unsupervised approach in which the generator (also an autoencoder) is trained to reconstruct input spectrograms. It is pointed out that the denoising nature of reconstruction deprecates its capacity. Thus, the discriminator is redesigned to aid the generator during both training stage and detection stage. The performance of AEGAN-AD on the dataset of DCASE 2022 Challenge TASK 2 demonstrates the state-of-the-art result on five machine types. A novel anomaly localization method is also investigated. Source code available at: www.github.com/jianganbai/AEGAN-AD 

**Title:** Diffusion Action Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17959

**Abstract:** Temporal action segmentation is crucial for understanding long-form videos. Previous works on this task commonly adopt an iterative refinement paradigm by using multi-stage models. Our paper proposes an essentially different framework via denoising diffusion models, which nonetheless shares the same inherent spirit of such iterative refinement. In this framework, action predictions are progressively generated from random noise with input video features as conditions. To enhance the modeling of three striking characteristics of human actions, including the position prior, the boundary ambiguity, and the relational dependency, we devise a unified masking strategy for the conditioning inputs in our framework. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets, i.e., GTEA, 50Salads, and Breakfast, are performed and the proposed method achieves superior or comparable results to state-of-the-art methods, showing the effectiveness of a generative approach for action segmentation. Our codes will be made available. 

**Title:** HD-GCN:A Hybrid Diffusion Graph Convolutional Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17966

**Abstract:** The information diffusion performance of GCN and its variant models is limited by the adjacency matrix, which can lower their performance. Therefore, we introduce a new framework for graph convolutional networks called Hybrid Diffusion-based Graph Convolutional Network (HD-GCN) to address the limitations of information diffusion caused by the adjacency matrix. In the HD-GCN framework, we initially utilize diffusion maps to facilitate the diffusion of information among nodes that are adjacent to each other in the feature space. This allows for the diffusion of information between similar points that may not have an adjacent relationship. Next, we utilize graph convolution to further propagate information among adjacent nodes after the diffusion maps, thereby enabling the spread of information among similar nodes that are adjacent in the graph. Finally, we employ the diffusion distances obtained through the use of diffusion maps to regularize and constrain the predicted labels of training nodes. This regularization method is then applied to the HD-GCN training, resulting in a smoother classification surface. The model proposed in this paper effectively overcomes the limitations of information diffusion imposed only by the adjacency matrix. HD-GCN utilizes hybrid diffusion by combining information diffusion between neighborhood nodes in the feature space and adjacent nodes in the adjacency matrix. This method allows for more comprehensive information propagation among nodes, resulting in improved model performance. We evaluated the performance of DM-GCN on three well-known citation network datasets and the results showed that the proposed framework is more effective than several graph-based semi-supervised learning methods. 

**Title:** Learning with Explicit Shape Priors for Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17967

**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation is considered as the basic step for medical image analysis and surgical intervention. And many previous works attempted to incorporate shape priors for designing segmentation models, which is beneficial to attain finer masks with anatomical shape information. Here in our work, we detailedly discuss three types of segmentation models with shape priors, which consist of atlas-based models, statistical-based models and UNet-based models. On the ground that the former two kinds of methods show a poor generalization ability, UNet-based models have dominated the field of medical image segmentation in recent years. However, existing UNet-based models tend to employ implicit shape priors, which do not have a good interpretability and generalization ability on different organs with distinctive shapes. Thus, we proposed a novel shape prior module (SPM), which could explicitly introduce shape priors to promote the segmentation performance of UNet-based models. To evaluate the effectiveness of SPM, we conduct experiments on three challenging public datasets. And our proposed model achieves state-of-the-art performance. Furthermore, SPM shows an outstanding generalization ability on different classic convolution-neural-networks (CNNs) and recent Transformer-based backbones, which can serve as a plug-and-play structure for the segmentation task of different datasets. 

**Title:** VDN-NeRF: Resolving Shape-Radiance Ambiguity via View-Dependence  Normalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17968

**Abstract:** We propose VDN-NeRF, a method to train neural radiance fields (NeRFs) for better geometry under non-Lambertian surface and dynamic lighting conditions that cause significant variation in the radiance of a point when viewed from different angles. Instead of explicitly modeling the underlying factors that result in the view-dependent phenomenon, which could be complex yet not inclusive, we develop a simple and effective technique that normalizes the view-dependence by distilling invariant information already encoded in the learned NeRFs. We then jointly train NeRFs for view synthesis with view-dependence normalization to attain quality geometry. Our experiments show that even though shape-radiance ambiguity is inevitable, the proposed normalization can minimize its effect on geometry, which essentially aligns the optimal capacity needed for explaining view-dependent variations. Our method applies to various baselines and significantly improves geometry without changing the volume rendering pipeline, even if the data is captured under a moving light source. Code is available at: https://github.com/BoifZ/VDN-NeRF. 

**Title:** Exploiting Multilingualism in Low-resource Neural Machine Translation  via Adversarial Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18011

**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) offer a promising approach for Neural Machine Translation (NMT). However, feeding multiple morphologically languages into a single model during training reduces the NMT's performance. In GAN, similar to bilingual models, multilingual NMT only considers one reference translation for each sentence during model training. This single reference translation limits the GAN model from learning sufficient information about the source sentence representation. Thus, in this article, we propose Denoising Adversarial Auto-encoder-based Sentence Interpolation (DAASI) approach to perform sentence interpolation by learning the intermediate latent representation of the source and target sentences of multilingual language pairs. Apart from latent representation, we also use the Wasserstein-GAN approach for the multilingual NMT model by incorporating the model generated sentences of multiple languages for reward computation. This computed reward optimizes the performance of the GAN-based multilingual model in an effective manner. We demonstrate the experiments on low-resource language pairs and find that our approach outperforms the existing state-of-the-art approaches for multilingual NMT with a performance gain of up to 4 BLEU points. Moreover, we use our trained model on zero-shot language pairs under an unsupervised scenario and show the robustness of the proposed approach. 

**Title:** Evaluating GPT-4 and ChatGPT on Japanese Medical Licensing Examinations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18027

**Abstract:** As large language models (LLMs) gain popularity among speakers of diverse languages, we believe that it is crucial to benchmark them to better understand model behaviors, failures, and limitations in languages beyond English. In this work, we evaluate LLM APIs (ChatGPT, GPT-3, and GPT-4) on the Japanese national medical licensing examinations from the past five years. Our team comprises native Japanese-speaking NLP researchers and a practicing cardiologist based in Japan. Our experiments show that GPT-4 outperforms ChatGPT and GPT-3 and passes all five years of the exams, highlighting LLMs' potential in a language that is typologically distant from English. However, our evaluation also exposes critical limitations of the current LLM APIs. First, LLMs sometimes select prohibited choices that should be strictly avoided in medical practice in Japan, such as suggesting euthanasia. Further, our analysis shows that the API costs are generally higher and the maximum context size is smaller for Japanese because of the way non-Latin scripts are currently tokenized in the pipeline. We release our benchmark as Igaku QA as well as all model outputs and exam metadata. We hope that our results and benchmark will spur progress on more diverse applications of LLMs. Our benchmark is available at https://github.com/jungokasai/IgakuQA. 

**Title:** Long-Short Temporal Co-Teaching for Weakly Supervised Video Anomaly  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18044

**Abstract:** Weakly supervised video anomaly detection (WS-VAD) is a challenging problem that aims to learn VAD models only with video-level annotations. In this work, we propose a Long-Short Temporal Co-teaching (LSTC) method to address the WS-VAD problem. It constructs two tubelet-based spatio-temporal transformer networks to learn from short- and long-term video clips respectively. Each network is trained with respect to a multiple instance learning (MIL)-based ranking loss, together with a cross-entropy loss when clip-level pseudo labels are available. A co-teaching strategy is adopted to train the two networks. That is, clip-level pseudo labels generated from each network are used to supervise the other one at the next training round, and the two networks are learned alternatively and iteratively. Our proposed method is able to better deal with the anomalies with varying durations as well as subtle anomalies. Extensive experiments on three public datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art WS-VAD methods. 

**Title:** One-shot Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Personalized Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18080

**Abstract:** Adapting a segmentation model from a labeled source domain to a target domain, where a single unlabeled datum is available, is one the most challenging problems in domain adaptation and is otherwise known as one-shot unsupervised domain adaptation (OSUDA). Most of the prior works have addressed the problem by relying on style transfer techniques, where the source images are stylized to have the appearance of the target domain. Departing from the common notion of transferring only the target ``texture'' information, we leverage text-to-image diffusion models (e.g., Stable Diffusion) to generate a synthetic target dataset with photo-realistic images that not only faithfully depict the style of the target domain, but are also characterized by novel scenes in diverse contexts. The text interface in our method Data AugmenTation with diffUsion Models (DATUM) endows us with the possibility of guiding the generation of images towards desired semantic concepts while respecting the original spatial context of a single training image, which is not possible in existing OSUDA methods. Extensive experiments on standard benchmarks show that our DATUM surpasses the state-of-the-art OSUDA methods by up to +7.1%. The implementation is available at https://github.com/yasserben/DATUM 

**Title:** RDMNet: Reliable Dense Matching Based Point Cloud Registration for  Autonomous Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18084

**Abstract:** Point cloud registration is an important task in robotics and autonomous driving to estimate the ego-motion of the vehicle. Recent advances following the coarse-to-fine manner show promising potential in point cloud registration. However, existing methods rely on good superpoint correspondences, which are hard to be obtained reliably and efficiently, thus resulting in less robust and accurate point cloud registration. In this paper, we propose a novel network, named RDMNet, to find dense point correspondences coarse-to-fine and improve final pose estimation based on such reliable correspondences. Our RDMNet uses a devised 3D-RoFormer mechanism to first extract distinctive superpoints and generates reliable superpoints matches between two point clouds. The proposed 3D-RoFormer fuses 3D position information into the transformer network, efficiently exploiting point clouds' contextual and geometric information to generate robust superpoint correspondences. RDMNet then propagates the sparse superpoints matches to dense point matches using the neighborhood information for accurate point cloud registration. We extensively evaluate our method on multiple datasets from different environments. The experimental results demonstrate that our method outperforms existing state-of-the-art approaches in all tested datasets with a strong generalization ability. 

**Title:** Pair Programming with Large Language Models for Sampling and Estimation  of Copulas  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18116

**Abstract:** Without writing a single line of code by a human, an example Monte Carlo simulation based application for stochastic dependence modeling with copulas is developed using a state-of-the-art large language model (LLM) fine-tuned for conversations. This includes interaction with ChatGPT in natural language and using mathematical formalism, which, under careful supervision by a human-expert, led to producing a working code in MATLAB, Python and R for sampling from a given copula model, evaluation of the model's density, performing maximum likelihood estimation, optimizing the code for parallel computing for CPUs as well as for GPUs, and visualization of the computed results. In contrast to other emerging studies that assess the accuracy of LLMs like ChatGPT on tasks from a selected area, this work rather investigates ways how to achieve a successful solution of a standard statistical task in a collaboration of a human-expert and artificial intelligence (AI). Particularly, through careful prompt engineering, we separate successful solutions generated by ChatGPT from unsuccessful ones, resulting in a comprehensive list of related pros and cons. It is demonstrated that if the typical pitfalls are avoided, we can substantially benefit from collaborating with an AI partner. For example, we show that if ChatGPT is not able to provide a correct solution due to a lack of or incorrect knowledge, the human-expert can feed it with the correct knowledge, e.g., in the form of mathematical theorems and formulas, and make it to apply the gained knowledge in order to provide a solution that is correct. Such ability presents an attractive opportunity to achieve a programmed solution even for users with rather limited knowledge of programming techniques. 

**Title:** BERTino: an Italian DistilBERT model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18121

**Abstract:** The recent introduction of Transformers language representation models allowed great improvements in many natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, if on one hand the performances achieved by this kind of architectures are surprising, on the other their usability is limited by the high number of parameters which constitute their network, resulting in high computational and memory demands. In this work we present BERTino, a DistilBERT model which proposes to be the first lightweight alternative to the BERT architecture specific for the Italian language. We evaluated BERTino on the Italian ISDT, Italian ParTUT, Italian WikiNER and multiclass classification tasks, obtaining F1 scores comparable to those obtained by a BERTBASE with a remarkable improvement in training and inference speed. 

**Title:** BERT4ETH: A Pre-trained Transformer for Ethereum Fraud Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18138

**Abstract:** As various forms of fraud proliferate on Ethereum, it is imperative to safeguard against these malicious activities to protect susceptible users from being victimized. While current studies solely rely on graph-based fraud detection approaches, it is argued that they may not be well-suited for dealing with highly repetitive, skew-distributed and heterogeneous Ethereum transactions. To address these challenges, we propose BERT4ETH, a universal pre-trained Transformer encoder that serves as an account representation extractor for detecting various fraud behaviors on Ethereum. BERT4ETH features the superior modeling capability of Transformer to capture the dynamic sequential patterns inherent in Ethereum transactions, and addresses the challenges of pre-training a BERT model for Ethereum with three practical and effective strategies, namely repetitiveness reduction, skew alleviation and heterogeneity modeling. Our empirical evaluation demonstrates that BERT4ETH outperforms state-of-the-art methods with significant enhancements in terms of the phishing account detection and de-anonymization tasks. The code for BERT4ETH is available at: https://github.com/git-disl/BERT4ETH. 

**Title:** Siamese DETR  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18144

**Abstract:** Recent self-supervised methods are mainly designed for representation learning with the base model, e.g., ResNets or ViTs. They cannot be easily transferred to DETR, with task-specific Transformer modules. In this work, we present Siamese DETR, a Siamese self-supervised pretraining approach for the Transformer architecture in DETR. We consider learning view-invariant and detection-oriented representations simultaneously through two complementary tasks, i.e., localization and discrimination, in a novel multi-view learning framework. Two self-supervised pretext tasks are designed: (i) Multi-View Region Detection aims at learning to localize regions-of-interest between augmented views of the input, and (ii) Multi-View Semantic Discrimination attempts to improve object-level discrimination for each region. The proposed Siamese DETR achieves state-of-the-art transfer performance on COCO and PASCAL VOC detection using different DETR variants in all setups. Code is available at https://github.com/Zx55/SiameseDETR. 

**Title:** Can AI Chatbots Pass the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) and Principles  and Practice of Engineering (PE) Structural Exams?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18149

**Abstract:** The engineering community has recently witnessed the emergence of chatbot technology with the release of OpenAI ChatGPT-4 and Google Bard. While these chatbots have been reported to perform well and even pass various standardized tests, including medical and law exams, this forum paper explores whether these chatbots can also pass the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) and Principles and Practice of Engineering (PE) exams. A diverse range of civil and environmental engineering questions and scenarios are used to evaluate the chatbots' performance, as commonly present in the FE and PE exams. The chatbots' responses were analyzed based on their relevance, accuracy, and clarity and then compared against the recommendations of the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES). Our report shows that ChatGPT-4 and Bard, respectively scored 70.9% and 39.2% in the FE exam and 46.2% and 41% in the PE exam. It is evident that the current version of ChatGPT-4 could potentially pass the FE exam. While future editions are much more likely to pass both exams, this study also highlights the potential of using chatbots as teaching assistants and guiding engineers. 

**Title:** STMT: A Spatial-Temporal Mesh Transformer for MoCap-Based Action  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18177

**Abstract:** We study the problem of human action recognition using motion capture (MoCap) sequences. Unlike existing techniques that take multiple manual steps to derive standardized skeleton representations as model input, we propose a novel Spatial-Temporal Mesh Transformer (STMT) to directly model the mesh sequences. The model uses a hierarchical transformer with intra-frame off-set attention and inter-frame self-attention. The attention mechanism allows the model to freely attend between any two vertex patches to learn non-local relationships in the spatial-temporal domain. Masked vertex modeling and future frame prediction are used as two self-supervised tasks to fully activate the bi-directional and auto-regressive attention in our hierarchical transformer. The proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance compared to skeleton-based and point-cloud-based models on common MoCap benchmarks. Code is available at https://github.com/zgzxy001/STMT. 

**Title:** A Closer Look at Parameter-Efficient Tuning in Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18181

**Abstract:** Large-scale diffusion models like Stable Diffusion are powerful and find various real-world applications while customizing such models by fine-tuning is both memory and time inefficient. Motivated by the recent progress in natural language processing, we investigate parameter-efficient tuning in large diffusion models by inserting small learnable modules (termed adapters). In particular, we decompose the design space of adapters into orthogonal factors -- the input position, the output position as well as the function form, and perform Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), a classical statistical approach for analyzing the correlation between discrete (design options) and continuous variables (evaluation metrics). Our analysis suggests that the input position of adapters is the critical factor influencing the performance of downstream tasks. Then, we carefully study the choice of the input position, and we find that putting the input position after the cross-attention block can lead to the best performance, validated by additional visualization analyses. Finally, we provide a recipe for parameter-efficient tuning in diffusion models, which is comparable if not superior to the fully fine-tuned baseline (e.g., DreamBooth) with only 0.75 \% extra parameters, across various customized tasks. 

**Title:** TPMCF: Temporal QoS Prediction using Multi-Source Collaborative Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18201

**Abstract:** Recently, with the rapid deployment of service APIs, personalized service recommendations have played a paramount role in the growth of the e-commerce industry. Quality-of-Service (QoS) parameters determining the service performance, often used for recommendation, fluctuate over time. Thus, the QoS prediction is essential to identify a suitable service among functionally equivalent services over time. The contemporary temporal QoS prediction methods hardly achieved the desired accuracy due to various limitations, such as the inability to handle data sparsity and outliers and capture higher-order temporal relationships among user-service interactions. Even though some recent recurrent neural-network-based architectures can model temporal relationships among QoS data, prediction accuracy degrades due to the absence of other features (e.g., collaborative features) to comprehend the relationship among the user-service interactions. This paper addresses the above challenges and proposes a scalable strategy for Temporal QoS Prediction using Multi-source Collaborative-Features (TPMCF), achieving high prediction accuracy and faster responsiveness. TPMCF combines the collaborative-features of users/services by exploiting user-service relationship with the spatio-temporal auto-extracted features by employing graph convolution and transformer encoder with multi-head self-attention. We validated our proposed method on WS-DREAM-2 datasets. Extensive experiments showed TPMCF outperformed major state-of-the-art approaches regarding prediction accuracy while ensuring high scalability and reasonably faster responsiveness. 

**Title:** A Survey of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18223

**Abstract:** Language is essentially a complex, intricate system of human expressions governed by grammatical rules. It poses a significant challenge to develop capable AI algorithms for comprehending and grasping a language. As a major approach, language modeling has been widely studied for language understanding and generation in the past two decades, evolving from statistical language models to neural language models. Recently, pre-trained language models (PLMs) have been proposed by pre-training Transformer models over large-scale corpora, showing strong capabilities in solving various NLP tasks. Since researchers have found that model scaling can lead to performance improvement, they further study the scaling effect by increasing the model size to an even larger size. Interestingly, when the parameter scale exceeds a certain level, these enlarged language models not only achieve a significant performance improvement but also show some special abilities that are not present in small-scale language models. To discriminate the difference in parameter scale, the research community has coined the term large language models (LLM) for the PLMs of significant size. Recently, the research on LLMs has been largely advanced by both academia and industry, and a remarkable progress is the launch of ChatGPT, which has attracted widespread attention from society. The technical evolution of LLMs has been making an important impact on the entire AI community, which would revolutionize the way how we develop and use AI algorithms. In this survey, we review the recent advances of LLMs by introducing the background, key findings, and mainstream techniques. In particular, we focus on four major aspects of LLMs, namely pre-training, adaptation tuning, utilization, and capacity evaluation. Besides, we also summarize the available resources for developing LLMs and discuss the remaining issues for future directions. 

**Title:** DIME-FM: DIstilling Multimodal and Efficient Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18232

**Abstract:** Large Vision-Language Foundation Models (VLFM), such as CLIP, ALIGN and Florence, are trained on large-scale datasets of image-caption pairs and achieve superior transferability and robustness on downstream tasks, but they are difficult to use in many practical applications due to their large size, high latency and fixed architectures. Unfortunately, recent work shows training a small custom VLFM for resource-limited applications is currently very difficult using public and smaller-scale data. In this paper, we introduce a new distillation mechanism (DIME-FM) that allows us to transfer the knowledge contained in large VLFMs to smaller, customized foundation models using a relatively small amount of inexpensive, unpaired images and sentences. We transfer the knowledge from the pre-trained CLIP-ViTL/14 model to a ViT-B/32 model, with only 40M public images and 28.4M unpaired public sentences. The resulting model "Distill-ViT-B/32" rivals the CLIP-ViT-B/32 model pre-trained on its private WiT dataset (400M image-text pairs): Distill-ViT-B/32 achieves similar results in terms of zero-shot and linear-probing performance on both ImageNet and the ELEVATER (20 image classification tasks) benchmarks. It also displays comparable robustness when evaluated on five datasets with natural distribution shifts from ImageNet. 

**Title:** Physics and Chemistry from Parsimonious Representations: Image Analysis  via Invariant Variational Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18236

**Abstract:** Electron, optical, and scanning probe microscopy methods are generating ever increasing volume of image data containing information on atomic and mesoscale structures and functionalities. This necessitates the development of the machine learning methods for discovery of physical and chemical phenomena from the data, such as manifestations of symmetry breaking in electron and scanning tunneling microscopy images, variability of the nanoparticles. Variational autoencoders (VAEs) are emerging as a powerful paradigm for the unsupervised data analysis, allowing to disentangle the factors of variability and discover optimal parsimonious representation. Here, we summarize recent developments in VAEs, covering the basic principles and intuition behind the VAEs. The invariant VAEs are introduced as an approach to accommodate scale and translation invariances present in imaging data and separate known factors of variations from the ones to be discovered. We further describe the opportunities enabled by the control over VAE architecture, including conditional, semi-supervised, and joint VAEs. Several case studies of VAE applications for toy models and experimental data sets in Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy are discussed, emphasizing the deep connection between VAE and basic physical principles. All the codes used here are available at https://github.com/saimani5/VAE-tutorials and this article can be used as an application guide when applying these to own data sets. 

**Title:** $\infty$-Diff: Infinite Resolution Diffusion with Subsampled Mollified  States  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18242

**Abstract:** We introduce $\infty$-Diff, a generative diffusion model which directly operates on infinite resolution data. By randomly sampling subsets of coordinates during training and learning to denoise the content at those coordinates, a continuous function is learned that allows sampling at arbitrary resolutions. In contrast to other recent infinite resolution generative models, our approach operates directly on the raw data, not requiring latent vector compression for context, using hypernetworks, nor relying on discrete components. As such, our approach achieves significantly higher sample quality, as evidenced by lower FID scores, as well as being able to effectively scale to higher resolutions than the training data while retaining detail. 

**Title:** Can AI Put Gamma-Ray Astrophysicists Out of a Job?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17853

**Abstract:** In what will likely be a litany of generative-model-themed arXiv submissions celebrating April the 1st, we evaluate the capacity of state-of-the-art transformer models to create a paper detailing the detection of a Pulsar Wind Nebula with a non-existent Imaging Atmospheric Cherenkov Telescope (IACT) Array. We do this to evaluate the ability of such models to interpret astronomical observations and sources based on language information alone, and to assess potential means by which fraudulently generated scientific papers could be identified during peer review (given that reliable generative model watermarking has yet to be deployed for these tools). We conclude that our jobs as astronomers are safe for the time being. From this point on, prompts given to ChatGPT and Stable Diffusion are shown in orange, text generated by ChatGPT is shown in black, whereas analysis by the (human) authors is in blue. 

**Title:** Comparing Adversarial and Supervised Learning for Organs at Risk  Segmentation in CT images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17941

**Abstract:** Organ at Risk (OAR) segmentation from CT scans is a key component of the radiotherapy treatment workflow. In recent years, deep learning techniques have shown remarkable potential in automating this process. In this paper, we investigate the performance of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) compared to supervised learning approaches for segmenting OARs from CT images. We propose three GAN-based models with identical generator architectures but different discriminator networks. These models are compared with well-established CNN models, such as SE-ResUnet and DeepLabV3, using the StructSeg dataset, which consists of 50 annotated CT scans containing contours of six OARs. Our work aims to provide insight into the advantages and disadvantages of adversarial training in the context of OAR segmentation. The results are very promising and show that the proposed GAN-based approaches are similar or superior to their CNN-based counterparts, particularly when segmenting more challenging target organs. 

**Title:** The modelling error in multi-dimensional time-dependent solute transport  models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17999

**Abstract:** Starting from full-dimensional models of solute transport, we derive and analyze multi-dimensional models of time-dependent convection, diffusion, and exchange in and around pulsating vascular and perivascular networks. These models are widely applicable for modelling transport in vascularized tissue, brain perivascular spaces, vascular plants and similar environments. We show the existence and uniqueness of solutions to both the full- and the multi-dimensional equations under suitable assumptions on the domain velocity. Moreover, we quantify the associated modelling errors by establishing a-priori estimates in evolving Bochner spaces. In particular, we show that the modelling error decreases with the characteristic vessel diameter and thus vanishes for infinitely slender vessels. Numerical tests in idealized geometries corroborate and extend upon our theoretical findings. 

