**Title:** Video text tracking for dense and small text based on pp-yoloe-r and  sort algorithm  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00018

**Abstract:** Although end-to-end video text spotting methods based on Transformer can model long-range dependencies and simplify the train process, it will lead to large computation cost with the increase of the frame size in the input video. Therefore, considering the resolution of ICDAR 2023 DSText is 1080 * 1920 and slicing the video frame into several areas will destroy the spatial correlation of text, we divided the small and dense text spotting into two tasks, text detection and tracking. For text detection, we adopt the PP-YOLOE-R which is proven effective in small object detection as our detection model. For text detection, we use the sort algorithm for high inference speed. Experiments on DSText dataset demonstrate that our method is competitive on small and dense text spotting. 

**Title:** Identifying Symptoms of Delirium from Clinical Narratives Using Natural  Language Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00111

**Abstract:** Delirium is an acute decline or fluctuation in attention, awareness, or other cognitive function that can lead to serious adverse outcomes. Despite the severe outcomes, delirium is frequently unrecognized and uncoded in patients' electronic health records (EHRs) due to its transient and diverse nature. Natural language processing (NLP), a key technology that extracts medical concepts from clinical narratives, has shown great potential in studies of delirium outcomes and symptoms. To assist in the diagnosis and phenotyping of delirium, we formed an expert panel to categorize diverse delirium symptoms, composed annotation guidelines, created a delirium corpus with diverse delirium symptoms, and developed NLP methods to extract delirium symptoms from clinical notes. We compared 5 state-of-the-art transformer models including 2 models (BERT and RoBERTa) from the general domain and 3 models (BERT_MIMIC, RoBERTa_MIMIC, and GatorTron) from the clinical domain. GatorTron achieved the best strict and lenient F1 scores of 0.8055 and 0.8759, respectively. We conducted an error analysis to identify challenges in annotating delirium symptoms and developing NLP systems. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first large language model-based delirium symptom extraction system. Our study lays the foundation for the future development of computable phenotypes and diagnosis methods for delirium. 

**Title:** Extracting Thyroid Nodules Characteristics from Ultrasound Reports Using  Transformer-based Natural Language Processing Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00115

**Abstract:** The ultrasound characteristics of thyroid nodules guide the evaluation of thyroid cancer in patients with thyroid nodules. However, the characteristics of thyroid nodules are often documented in clinical narratives such as ultrasound reports. Previous studies have examined natural language processing (NLP) methods in extracting a limited number of characteristics (<9) using rule-based NLP systems. In this study, a multidisciplinary team of NLP experts and thyroid specialists, identified thyroid nodule characteristics that are important for clinical care, composed annotation guidelines, developed a corpus, and compared 5 state-of-the-art transformer-based NLP methods, including BERT, RoBERTa, LongFormer, DeBERTa, and GatorTron, for extraction of thyroid nodule characteristics from ultrasound reports. Our GatorTron model, a transformer-based large language model trained using over 90 billion words of text, achieved the best strict and lenient F1-score of 0.8851 and 0.9495 for the extraction of a total number of 16 thyroid nodule characteristics, and 0.9321 for linking characteristics to nodules, outperforming other clinical transformer models. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to systematically categorize and apply transformer-based NLP models to extract a large number of clinical relevant thyroid nodule characteristics from ultrasound reports. This study lays ground for assessing the documentation quality of thyroid ultrasound reports and examining outcomes of patients with thyroid nodules using electronic health records. 

**Title:** Hierarchical Vision Transformers for Cardiac Ejection Fraction  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00177

**Abstract:** The left ventricular of ejection fraction is one of the most important metric of cardiac function. It is used by cardiologist to identify patients who are eligible for lifeprolonging therapies. However, the assessment of ejection fraction suffers from inter-observer variability. To overcome this challenge, we propose a deep learning approach, based on hierarchical vision Transformers, to estimate the ejection fraction from echocardiogram videos. The proposed method can estimate ejection fraction without the need for left ventrice segmentation first, make it more efficient than other methods. We evaluated our method on EchoNet-Dynamic dataset resulting 5.59, 7.59 and 0.59 for MAE, RMSE and R2 respectivelly. This results are better compared to the state-of-the-art method, Ultrasound Video Transformer (UVT). The source code is available on https://github.com/lhfazry/UltraSwin. 

**Title:** PrefGen: Preference Guided Image Generation with Relative Attributes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00185

**Abstract:** Deep generative models have the capacity to render high fidelity images of content like human faces. Recently, there has been substantial progress in conditionally generating images with specific quantitative attributes, like the emotion conveyed by one's face. These methods typically require a user to explicitly quantify the desired intensity of a visual attribute. A limitation of this method is that many attributes, like how "angry" a human face looks, are difficult for a user to precisely quantify. However, a user would be able to reliably say which of two faces seems "angrier". Following this premise, we develop the $\textit{PrefGen}$ system, which allows users to control the relative attributes of generated images by presenting them with simple paired comparison queries of the form "do you prefer image $a$ or image $b$?" Using information from a sequence of query responses, we can estimate user preferences over a set of image attributes and perform preference-guided image editing and generation. Furthermore, to make preference localization feasible and efficient, we apply an active query selection strategy. We demonstrate the success of this approach using a StyleGAN2 generator on the task of human face editing. Additionally, we demonstrate how our approach can be combined with CLIP, allowing a user to edit the relative intensity of attributes specified by text prompts. Code at https://github.com/helblazer811/PrefGen. 

**Title:** Inductive Relation Prediction from Relational Paths and Context with  Hierarchical Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00215

**Abstract:** Relation prediction on knowledge graphs (KGs) is a key research topic. Dominant embedding-based methods mainly focus on the transductive setting and lack the inductive ability to generalize to new entities for inference. Existing methods for inductive reasoning mostly mine the connections between entities, i.e., relational paths, without considering the nature of head and tail entities contained in the relational context. This paper proposes a novel method that captures both connections between entities and the intrinsic nature of entities, by simultaneously aggregating RElational Paths and cOntext with a unified hieRarchical Transformer framework, namely REPORT. REPORT relies solely on relation semantics and can naturally generalize to the fully-inductive setting, where KGs for training and inference have no common entities. In the experiments, REPORT performs consistently better than all baselines on almost all the eight version subsets of two fully-inductive datasets. Moreover. REPORT is interpretable by providing each element's contribution to the prediction results. 

**Title:** Large language models can rate news outlet credibility  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00228

**Abstract:** Although large language models (LLMs) have shown exceptional performance in various natural language processing tasks, they are prone to hallucinations. State-of-the-art chatbots, such as the new Bing, attempt to mitigate this issue by gathering information directly from the internet to ground their answers. In this setting, the capacity to distinguish trustworthy sources is critical for providing appropriate accuracy contexts to users. Here we assess whether ChatGPT, a prominent LLM, can evaluate the credibility of news outlets. With appropriate instructions, ChatGPT can provide ratings for a diverse set of news outlets, including those in non-English languages and satirical sources, along with contextual explanations. Our results show that these ratings correlate with those from human experts (Spearmam's $\rho=0.54, p<0.001$). These findings suggest that LLMs could be an affordable reference for credibility ratings in fact-checking applications. Future LLMs should enhance their alignment with human expert judgments of source credibility to improve information accuracy. 

**Title:** GLT-T++: Global-Local Transformer for 3D Siamese Tracking with Ranking  Loss  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00242

**Abstract:** Siamese trackers based on 3D region proposal network (RPN) have shown remarkable success with deep Hough voting. However, using a single seed point feature as the cue for voting fails to produce high-quality 3D proposals. Additionally, the equal treatment of seed points in the voting process, regardless of their significance, exacerbates this limitation. To address these challenges, we propose a novel transformer-based voting scheme to generate better proposals. Specifically, a global-local transformer (GLT) module is devised to integrate object- and patch-aware geometric priors into seed point features, resulting in robust and accurate cues for offset learning of seed points. To train the GLT module, we introduce an importance prediction branch that learns the potential importance weights of seed points as a training constraint. Incorporating this transformer-based voting scheme into 3D RPN, a novel Siamese method dubbed GLT-T is developed for 3D single object tracking on point clouds. Moreover, we identify that the highest-scored proposal in the Siamese paradigm may not be the most accurate proposal, which limits tracking performance. Towards this concern, we approach the binary score prediction task as a ranking problem, and design a target-aware ranking loss and a localization-aware ranking loss to produce accurate ranking of proposals. With the ranking losses, we further present GLT-T++, an enhanced version of GLT-T. Extensive experiments on multiple benchmarks demonstrate that our GLT-T and GLT-T++ outperform state-of-the-art methods in terms of tracking accuracy while maintaining a real-time inference speed. The source code will be made available at https://github.com/haooozi/GLT-T. 

**Title:** Q-DETR: An Efficient Low-Bit Quantized Detection Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00253

**Abstract:** The recent detection transformer (DETR) has advanced object detection, but its application on resource-constrained devices requires massive computation and memory resources. Quantization stands out as a solution by representing the network in low-bit parameters and operations. However, there is a significant performance drop when performing low-bit quantized DETR (Q-DETR) with existing quantization methods. We find that the bottlenecks of Q-DETR come from the query information distortion through our empirical analyses. This paper addresses this problem based on a distribution rectification distillation (DRD). We formulate our DRD as a bi-level optimization problem, which can be derived by generalizing the information bottleneck (IB) principle to the learning of Q-DETR. At the inner level, we conduct a distribution alignment for the queries to maximize the self-information entropy. At the upper level, we introduce a new foreground-aware query matching scheme to effectively transfer the teacher information to distillation-desired features to minimize the conditional information entropy. Extensive experimental results show that our method performs much better than prior arts. For example, the 4-bit Q-DETR can theoretically accelerate DETR with ResNet-50 backbone by 6.6x and achieve 39.4% AP, with only 2.6% performance gaps than its real-valued counterpart on the COCO dataset. 

**Title:** DOAD: Decoupled One Stage Action Detection Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00254

**Abstract:** Localizing people and recognizing their actions from videos is a challenging task towards high-level video understanding. Existing methods are mostly two-stage based, with one stage for person bounding box generation and the other stage for action recognition. However, such two-stage methods are generally with low efficiency. We observe that directly unifying detection and action recognition normally suffers from (i) inferior learning due to different desired properties of context representation for detection and action recognition; (ii) optimization difficulty with insufficient training data. In this work, we present a decoupled one-stage network dubbed DOAD, to mitigate above issues and improve the efficiency for spatio-temporal action detection. To achieve it, we decouple detection and action recognition into two branches. Specifically, one branch focuses on detection representation for actor detection, and the other one for action recognition. For the action branch, we design a transformer-based module (TransPC) to model pairwise relationships between people and context. Different from commonly used vector-based dot product in self-attention, it is built upon a novel matrix-based key and value for Hadamard attention to model person-context information. It not only exploits relationships between person pairs but also takes into account context and relative position information. The results on AVA and UCF101-24 datasets show that our method is competitive with two-stage state-of-the-art methods with significant efficiency improvement. 

**Title:** Vision Transformers with Mixed-Resolution Tokenization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00287

**Abstract:** Vision Transformer models process input images by dividing them into a spatially regular grid of equal-size patches. Conversely, Transformers were originally introduced over natural language sequences, where each token represents a subword - a chunk of raw data of arbitrary size. In this work, we apply this approach to Vision Transformers by introducing a novel image tokenization scheme, replacing the standard uniform grid with a mixed-resolution sequence of tokens, where each token represents a patch of arbitrary size. Using the Quadtree algorithm and a novel saliency scorer, we construct a patch mosaic where low-saliency areas of the image are processed in low resolution, routing more of the model's capacity to important image regions. Using the same architecture as vanilla ViTs, our Quadformer models achieve substantial accuracy gains on image classification when controlling for the computational budget. Code and models are publicly available at https://github.com/TomerRonen34/mixed-resolution-vit . 

**Title:** Doubly Stochastic Models: Learning with Unbiased Label Noises and  Inference Stability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00320

**Abstract:** Random label noises (or observational noises) widely exist in practical machine learning settings. While previous studies primarily focus on the affects of label noises to the performance of learning, our work intends to investigate the implicit regularization effects of the label noises, under mini-batch sampling settings of stochastic gradient descent (SGD), with assumptions that label noises are unbiased. Specifically, we analyze the learning dynamics of SGD over the quadratic loss with unbiased label noises, where we model the dynamics of SGD as a stochastic differentiable equation (SDE) with two diffusion terms (namely a Doubly Stochastic Model). While the first diffusion term is caused by mini-batch sampling over the (label-noiseless) loss gradients as many other works on SGD, our model investigates the second noise term of SGD dynamics, which is caused by mini-batch sampling over the label noises, as an implicit regularizer. Our theoretical analysis finds such implicit regularizer would favor some convergence points that could stabilize model outputs against perturbation of parameters (namely inference stability). Though similar phenomenon have been investigated, our work doesn't assume SGD as an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck like process and achieve a more generalizable result with convergence of approximation proved. To validate our analysis, we design two sets of empirical studies to analyze the implicit regularizer of SGD with unbiased random label noises for deep neural networks training and linear regression. 

**Title:** SVT: Supertoken Video Transformer for Efficient Video Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00325

**Abstract:** Whether by processing videos with fixed resolution from start to end or incorporating pooling and down-scaling strategies, existing video transformers process the whole video content throughout the network without specially handling the large portions of redundant information. In this paper, we present a Supertoken Video Transformer (SVT) that incorporates a Semantic Pooling Module (SPM) to aggregate latent representations along the depth of visual transformer based on their semantics, and thus, reduces redundancy inherent in video inputs.~Qualitative results show that our method can effectively reduce redundancy by merging latent representations with similar semantics and thus increase the proportion of salient information for downstream tasks.~Quantitatively, our method improves the performance of both ViT and MViT while requiring significantly less computations on the Kinectics and Something-Something-V2 benchmarks.~More specifically, with our SPM, we improve the accuracy of MAE-pretrained ViT-B and ViT-L by 1.5% with 33% less GFLOPs and by 0.2% with 55% less FLOPs, respectively, on the Kinectics-400 benchmark, and improve the accuracy of MViTv2-B by 0.2% and 0.3% with 22% less GFLOPs on Kinectics-400 and Something-Something-V2, respectively. 

**Title:** TalkCLIP: Talking Head Generation with Text-Guided Expressive Speaking  Styles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00334

**Abstract:** In order to produce facial-expression-specified talking head videos, previous audio-driven one-shot talking head methods need to use a reference video with a matching speaking style (i.e., facial expressions). However, finding videos with a desired style may not be easy, potentially restricting their application. In this work, we propose an expression-controllable one-shot talking head method, dubbed TalkCLIP, where the expression in a speech is specified by the natural language. This would significantly ease the difficulty of searching for a video with a desired speaking style. Here, we first construct a text-video paired talking head dataset, in which each video has alternative prompt-alike descriptions. Specifically, our descriptions involve coarse-level emotion annotations and facial action unit (AU) based fine-grained annotations. Then, we introduce a CLIP-based style encoder that first projects natural language descriptions to the CLIP text embedding space and then aligns the textual embeddings to the representations of speaking styles. As extensive textual knowledge has been encoded by CLIP, our method can even generalize to infer a speaking style whose description has not been seen during training. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves the advanced capability of generating photo-realistic talking heads with vivid facial expressions guided by text descriptions. 

**Title:** JacobiNeRF: NeRF Shaping with Mutual Information Gradients  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00341

**Abstract:** We propose a method that trains a neural radiance field (NeRF) to encode not only the appearance of the scene but also semantic correlations between scene points, regions, or entities -- aiming to capture their mutual co-variation patterns. In contrast to the traditional first-order photometric reconstruction objective, our method explicitly regularizes the learning dynamics to align the Jacobians of highly-correlated entities, which proves to maximize the mutual information between them under random scene perturbations. By paying attention to this second-order information, we can shape a NeRF to express semantically meaningful synergies when the network weights are changed by a delta along the gradient of a single entity, region, or even a point. To demonstrate the merit of this mutual information modeling, we leverage the coordinated behavior of scene entities that emerges from our shaping to perform label propagation for semantic and instance segmentation. Our experiments show that a JacobiNeRF is more efficient in propagating annotations among 2D pixels and 3D points compared to NeRFs without mutual information shaping, especially in extremely sparse label regimes -- thus reducing annotation burden. The same machinery can further be used for entity selection or scene modifications. 

**Title:** Sketch-based Video Object Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00450

**Abstract:** We introduce Sketch-based Video Object Localization (SVOL), a new task aimed at localizing spatio-temporal object boxes in video queried by the input sketch. We first outline the challenges in the SVOL task and build the Sketch-Video Attention Network (SVANet) with the following design principles: (i) to consider temporal information of video and bridge the domain gap between sketch and video; (ii) to accurately identify and localize multiple objects simultaneously; (iii) to handle various styles of sketches; (iv) to be classification-free. In particular, SVANet is equipped with a Cross-modal Transformer that models the interaction between learnable object tokens, query sketch, and video through attention operations, and learns upon a per-frame set macthing strategy that enables frame-wise prediction while utilizing global video context. We evaluate SVANet on a newly curated SVOL dataset. By design, SVANet successfully learns the mapping between the query sketch and video objects, achieving state-of-the-art results on the SVOL benchmark. We further confirm the effectiveness of SVANet via extensive ablation studies and visualizations. Lastly, we demonstrate its zero-shot capability on unseen datasets and novel categories, suggesting its high scalability in real-world applications. 

**Title:** LLMMaps -- A Visual Metaphor for Stratified Evaluation of Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00457

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language processing and demonstrated impressive capabilities in various tasks. Unfortunately, they are prone to hallucinations, where the model exposes incorrect or false information in its responses, which renders diligent evaluation approaches mandatory. While LLM performance in specific knowledge fields is often evaluated based on question and answer (Q&A) datasets, such evaluations usually report only a single accuracy number for the entire field, a procedure which is problematic with respect to transparency and model improvement. A stratified evaluation could instead reveal subfields, where hallucinations are more likely to occur and thus help to better assess LLMs' risks and guide their further development. To support such stratified evaluations, we propose LLMMaps as a novel visualization technique that enables users to evaluate LLMs' performance with respect to Q&A datasets. LLMMaps provide detailed insights into LLMs' knowledge capabilities in different subfields, by transforming Q&A datasets as well as LLM responses into our internal knowledge structure. An extension for comparative visualization furthermore, allows for the detailed comparison of multiple LLMs. To assess LLMMaps we use them to conduct a comparative analysis of several state-of-the-art LLMs, such as BLOOM, GPT-2, GPT-3, ChatGPT and LLaMa-13B, as well as two qualitative user evaluations. All necessary source code and data for generating LLMMaps to be used in scientific publications and elsewhere will be available on GitHub. 

**Title:** Parents and Children: Distinguishing Multimodal DeepFakes from Natural  Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00500

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in diffusion models have enabled the generation of realistic deepfakes by writing textual prompts in natural language. While these models have numerous benefits across various sectors, they have also raised concerns about the potential misuse of fake images and cast new pressures on fake image detection. In this work, we pioneer a systematic study of the authenticity of fake images generated by state-of-the-art diffusion models. Firstly, we conduct a comprehensive study on the performance of contrastive and classification-based visual features. Our analysis demonstrates that fake images share common low-level cues, which render them easily recognizable. Further, we devise a multimodal setting wherein fake images are synthesized by different textual captions, which are used as seeds for a generator. Under this setting, we quantify the performance of fake detection strategies and introduce a contrastive-based disentangling strategy which let us analyze the role of the semantics of textual descriptions and low-level perceptual cues. Finally, we release a new dataset, called COCOFake, containing about 600k images generated from original COCO images. 

**Title:** Textile Pattern Generation Using Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00520

**Abstract:** The problem of text-guided image generation is a complex task in Computer Vision, with various applications, including creating visually appealing artwork and realistic product images. One popular solution widely used for this task is the diffusion model, a generative model that generates images through an iterative process. Although diffusion models have demonstrated promising results for various image generation tasks, they may only sometimes produce satisfactory results when applied to more specific domains, such as the generation of textile patterns based on text guidance. This study presents a fine-tuned diffusion model specifically trained for textile pattern generation by text guidance to address this issue. The study involves the collection of various textile pattern images and their captioning with the help of another AI model. The fine-tuned diffusion model is trained with this newly created dataset, and its results are compared with the baseline models visually and numerically. The results demonstrate that the proposed fine-tuned diffusion model outperforms the baseline models in terms of pattern quality and efficiency in textile pattern generation by text guidance. This study presents a promising solution to the problem of text-guided textile pattern generation and has the potential to simplify the design process within the textile industry. 

**Title:** LG-BPN: Local and Global Blind-Patch Network for Self-Supervised  Real-World Denoising  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00534

**Abstract:** Despite the significant results on synthetic noise under simplified assumptions, most self-supervised denoising methods fail under real noise due to the strong spatial noise correlation, including the advanced self-supervised blind-spot networks (BSNs). For recent methods targeting real-world denoising, they either suffer from ignoring this spatial correlation, or are limited by the destruction of fine textures for under-considering the correlation. In this paper, we present a novel method called LG-BPN for self-supervised real-world denoising, which takes the spatial correlation statistic into our network design for local detail restoration, and also brings the long-range dependencies modeling ability to previously CNN-based BSN methods. First, based on the correlation statistic, we propose a densely-sampled patch-masked convolution module. By taking more neighbor pixels with low noise correlation into account, we enable a denser local receptive field, preserving more useful information for enhanced fine structure recovery. Second, we propose a dilated Transformer block to allow distant context exploitation in BSN. This global perception addresses the intrinsic deficiency of BSN, whose receptive field is constrained by the blind spot requirement, which can not be fully resolved by the previous CNN-based BSNs. These two designs enable LG-BPN to fully exploit both the detailed structure and the global interaction in a blind manner. Extensive results on real-world datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our method. https://github.com/Wang-XIaoDingdd/LGBPN 

**Title:** FANS: Fast Non-Autoregressive Sequence Generation for Item List  Continuation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00545

**Abstract:** User-curated item lists, such as video-based playlists on Youtube and book-based lists on Goodreads, have become prevalent for content sharing on online platforms. Item list continuation is proposed to model the overall trend of a list and predict subsequent items. Recently, Transformer-based models have shown promise in comprehending contextual information and capturing item relationships in a list. However, deploying them in real-time industrial applications is challenging, mainly because the autoregressive generation mechanism used in them is time-consuming. In this paper, we propose a novel fast non-autoregressive sequence generation model, namely FANS, to enhance inference efficiency and quality for item list continuation. First, we use a non-autoregressive generation mechanism to decode next $K$ items simultaneously instead of one by one in existing models. Then, we design a two-stage classifier to replace the vanilla classifier used in current transformer-based models to further reduce the decoding time. Moreover, to improve the quality of non-autoregressive generation, we employ a curriculum learning strategy to optimize training. Experimental results on four real-world item list continuation datasets including Zhihu, Spotify, AotM, and Goodreads show that our FANS model can significantly improve inference efficiency (up to 8.7x) while achieving competitive or better generation quality for item list continuation compared with the state-of-the-art autoregressive models. We also validate the efficiency of FANS in an industrial setting. Our source code and data will be available at MindSpore/models and Github. 

**Title:** DropMAE: Masked Autoencoders with Spatial-Attention Dropout for Tracking  Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00571

**Abstract:** In this paper, we study masked autoencoder (MAE) pretraining on videos for matching-based downstream tasks, including visual object tracking (VOT) and video object segmentation (VOS). A simple extension of MAE is to randomly mask out frame patches in videos and reconstruct the frame pixels. However, we find that this simple baseline heavily relies on spatial cues while ignoring temporal relations for frame reconstruction, thus leading to sub-optimal temporal matching representations for VOT and VOS. To alleviate this problem, we propose DropMAE, which adaptively performs spatial-attention dropout in the frame reconstruction to facilitate temporal correspondence learning in videos. We show that our DropMAE is a strong and efficient temporal matching learner, which achieves better finetuning results on matching-based tasks than the ImageNetbased MAE with 2X faster pre-training speed. Moreover, we also find that motion diversity in pre-training videos is more important than scene diversity for improving the performance on VOT and VOS. Our pre-trained DropMAE model can be directly loaded in existing ViT-based trackers for fine-tuning without further modifications. Notably, DropMAE sets new state-of-the-art performance on 8 out of 9 highly competitive video tracking and segmentation datasets. Our code and pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/jimmy-dq/DropMAE.git. 

**Title:** Learning Similarity between Scene Graphs and Images with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00590

**Abstract:** Scene graph generation is conventionally evaluated by (mean) Recall@K, which measures the ratio of correctly predicted triplets that appear in the ground truth. However, such triplet-oriented metrics cannot capture the global semantic information of scene graphs, and measure the similarity between images and generated scene graphs. The usability of scene graphs is therefore limited in downstream tasks. To address this issue, a framework that can measure the similarity of scene graphs and images is urgently required. Motivated by the successful application of Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP), we propose a novel contrastive learning framework consisting of a graph Transformer and an image Transformer to align scene graphs and their corresponding images in the shared latent space. To enable the graph Transformer to comprehend the scene graph structure and extract representative features, we introduce a graph serialization technique that transforms a scene graph into a sequence with structural encoding. Based on our framework, we introduce R-Precision measuring image retrieval accuracy as a new evaluation metric for scene graph generation and establish new benchmarks for the Visual Genome and Open Images datasets. A series of experiments are further conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the graph Transformer, which shows great potential as a scene graph encoder. 

**Title:** Classifying COVID-19 Related Tweets for Fake News Detection and  Sentiment Analysis with BERT-based Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00636

**Abstract:** The present paper is about the participation of our team "techno" on CERIST'22 shared tasks. We used an available dataset "task1.c" related to covid-19 pandemic. It comprises 4128 tweets for sentiment analysis task and 8661 tweets for fake news detection task. We used natural language processing tools with the combination of the most renowned pre-trained language models BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers). The results shows the efficacy of pre-trained language models as we attained an accuracy of 0.93 for the sentiment analysis task and 0.90 for the fake news detection task. 

**Title:** DiffuRec: A Diffusion Model for Sequential Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00686

**Abstract:** Mainstream solutions to Sequential Recommendation (SR) represent items with fixed vectors. These vectors have limited capability in capturing items' latent aspects and users' diverse preferences. As a new generative paradigm, Diffusion models have achieved excellent performance in areas like computer vision and natural language processing. To our understanding, its unique merit in representation generation well fits the problem setting of sequential recommendation. In this paper, we make the very first attempt to adapt Diffusion model to SR and propose DiffuRec, for item representation construction and uncertainty injection. Rather than modeling item representations as fixed vectors, we represent them as distributions in DiffuRec, which reflect user's multiple interests and item's various aspects adaptively. In diffusion phase, DiffuRec corrupts the target item embedding into a Gaussian distribution via noise adding, which is further applied for sequential item distribution representation generation and uncertainty injection. Afterwards, the item representation is fed into an Approximator for target item representation reconstruction. In reversion phase, based on user's historical interaction behaviors, we reverse a Gaussian noise into the target item representation, then apply rounding operation for target item prediction. Experiments over four datasets show that DiffuRec outperforms strong baselines by a large margin. 

**Title:** Exploring the Use of Large Language Models for Reference-Free Text  Quality Evaluation: A Preliminary Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00723

**Abstract:** Evaluating the quality of generated text is a challenging task in natural language processing. This difficulty arises from the inherent complexity and diversity of text. Recently, OpenAI's ChatGPT, a powerful large language model (LLM), has garnered significant attention due to its impressive performance in various tasks. Therefore, we present this report to investigate the effectiveness of LLMs, especially ChatGPT, and explore ways to optimize their use in assessing text quality. We compared three kinds of reference-free evaluation methods based on ChatGPT or similar LLMs. The experimental results prove that ChatGPT is capable to evaluate text quality effectively from various perspectives without reference and demonstrates superior performance than most existing automatic metrics. In particular, the Explicit Score, which utilizes ChatGPT to generate a numeric score measuring text quality, is the most effective and reliable method among the three exploited approaches. However, directly comparing the quality of two texts using ChatGPT may lead to suboptimal results. We hope this report will provide valuable insights into selecting appropriate methods for evaluating text quality with LLMs such as ChatGPT. 

**Title:** Unbiased Scene Graph Generation in Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00733

**Abstract:** The task of dynamic scene graph generation (SGG) from videos is complicated and challenging due to the inherent dynamics of a scene, temporal fluctuation of model predictions, and the long-tailed distribution of the visual relationships in addition to the already existing challenges in image-based SGG. Existing methods for dynamic SGG have primarily focused on capturing spatio-temporal context using complex architectures without addressing the challenges mentioned above, especially the long-tailed distribution of relationships. This often leads to the generation of biased scene graphs. To address these challenges, we introduce a new framework called TEMPURA: TEmporal consistency and Memory Prototype guided UnceRtainty Attenuation for unbiased dynamic SGG. TEMPURA employs object-level temporal consistencies via transformer-based sequence modeling, learns to synthesize unbiased relationship representations using memory-guided training, and attenuates the predictive uncertainty of visual relations using a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM). Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves significant (up to 10% in some cases) performance gain over existing methods highlighting its superiority in generating more unbiased scene graphs. 

**Title:** Device Image-IV Mapping using Variational Autoencoder for Inverse Design  and Forward Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00738

**Abstract:** This paper demonstrates the learning of the underlying device physics by mapping device structure images to their corresponding Current-Voltage (IV) characteristics using a novel framework based on variational autoencoders (VAE). Since VAE is used, domain expertise is not required and the framework can be quickly deployed on any new device and measurement. This is expected to be useful in the compact modeling of novel devices when only device cross-sectional images and electrical characteristics are available (e.g. novel emerging memory). Technology Computer-Aided Design (TCAD) generated and hand-drawn Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (MOS) device images and noisy drain-current-gate-voltage curves (IDVG) are used for the demonstration. The framework is formed by stacking two VAEs (one for image manifold learning and one for IDVG manifold learning) which communicate with each other through the latent variables. Five independent variables with different strengths are used. It is shown that it can perform inverse design (generate a design structure for a given IDVG) and forward prediction (predict IDVG for a given structure image, which can be used for compact modeling if the image is treated as device parameters) successfully. Since manifold learning is used, the machine is shown to be robust against noise in the inputs (i.e. using hand-drawn images and noisy IDVG curves) and not confused by weak and irrelevant independent variables. 

**Title:** Convergence of a finite volume scheme and dissipative  measure-valued-strong stability for a hyperbolic-parabolic cross-diffusion  system  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00787

**Abstract:** This article is concerned with the approximation of hyperbolic-parabolic cross-diffusion systems modeling segregation phenomena for populations by a fully discrete finite-volume scheme. It is proved that the numerical scheme converges to a dissipative measure-valued solution of the PDE system and that, whenever the latter possesses a strong solution, the convergence holds in the strong sense. Furthermore, the ``parabolic density part'' of the limiting measure-valued solution is atomic and converges to its constant state for long times. The results are based on Young measure theory and a weak-strong stability estimate combining Shannon and Rao entropies. The convergence of the numerical scheme is achieved by means of discrete entropy dissipation inequalities and an artificial diffusion, which vanishes in the continuum limit. 

**Title:** Open-Vocabulary Point-Cloud Object Detection without 3D Annotation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00788

**Abstract:** The goal of open-vocabulary detection is to identify novel objects based on arbitrary textual descriptions. In this paper, we address open-vocabulary 3D point-cloud detection by a dividing-and-conquering strategy, which involves: 1) developing a point-cloud detector that can learn a general representation for localizing various objects, and 2) connecting textual and point-cloud representations to enable the detector to classify novel object categories based on text prompting. Specifically, we resort to rich image pre-trained models, by which the point-cloud detector learns localizing objects under the supervision of predicted 2D bounding boxes from 2D pre-trained detectors. Moreover, we propose a novel de-biased triplet cross-modal contrastive learning to connect the modalities of image, point-cloud and text, thereby enabling the point-cloud detector to benefit from vision-language pre-trained models,i.e.,CLIP. The novel use of image and vision-language pre-trained models for point-cloud detectors allows for open-vocabulary 3D object detection without the need for 3D annotations. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed method improves at least 3.03 points and 7.47 points over a wide range of baselines on the ScanNet and SUN RGB-D datasets, respectively. Furthermore, we provide a comprehensive analysis to explain why our approach works. 

**Title:** A paradigm for well-balanced schemes for traveling waves emerging in  parabolic biological models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00826

**Abstract:** We propose a methodology for designing well-balanced numerical schemes to investigate traveling waves in parabolic models from mathematical biology. We combine well-balanced techniques for parabolic models known in the literature with the so-called LeVeque-Yee formula as a dynamic estimate for the spreading speed. This latter formula is used to consider the evolution problem in a moving frame at each time step, where the equations admit stationary solutions, for which well-balanced techniques are suitable. Then, the solution is shifted back to the stationary frame in a well-balanced manner. We illustrate this methodology on parabolic reaction-diffusion equations, such as the Fisher/Kolmogorov-Petrovsky-Piskunov Equation, and a class of equations with a cubic reaction term that exhibit a transition from pulled to pushed waves. We show that the numerical schemes capture in a consistent way simultaneously the wave speed and, to an extent, the so-called Bramson delay. 

**Title:** Multi-modal Fake News Detection on Social Media via Multi-grained  Information Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00827

**Abstract:** The easy sharing of multimedia content on social media has caused a rapid dissemination of fake news, which threatens society's stability and security. Therefore, fake news detection has garnered extensive research interest in the field of social forensics. Current methods primarily concentrate on the integration of textual and visual features but fail to effectively exploit multi-modal information at both fine-grained and coarse-grained levels. Furthermore, they suffer from an ambiguity problem due to a lack of correlation between modalities or a contradiction between the decisions made by each modality. To overcome these challenges, we present a Multi-grained Multi-modal Fusion Network (MMFN) for fake news detection. Inspired by the multi-grained process of human assessment of news authenticity, we respectively employ two Transformer-based pre-trained models to encode token-level features from text and images. The multi-modal module fuses fine-grained features, taking into account coarse-grained features encoded by the CLIP encoder. To address the ambiguity problem, we design uni-modal branches with similarity-based weighting to adaptively adjust the use of multi-modal features. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework outperforms state-of-the-art methods on three prevalent datasets. 

**Title:** AUDIT: Audio Editing by Following Instructions with Latent Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00830

**Abstract:** Audio editing is applicable for various purposes, such as adding background sound effects, replacing a musical instrument, and repairing damaged audio. Recently, some diffusion-based methods achieved zero-shot audio editing by using a diffusion and denoising process conditioned on the text description of the output audio. However, these methods still have some problems: 1) they have not been trained on editing tasks and cannot ensure good editing effects; 2) they can erroneously modify audio segments that do not require editing; 3) they need a complete description of the output audio, which is not always available or necessary in practical scenarios. In this work, we propose AUDIT, an instruction-guided audio editing model based on latent diffusion models. Specifically, AUDIT has three main design features: 1) we construct triplet training data (instruction, input audio, output audio) for different audio editing tasks and train a diffusion model using instruction and input (to be edited) audio as conditions and generating output (edited) audio; 2) it can automatically learn to only modify segments that need to be edited by comparing the difference between the input and output audio; 3) it only needs edit instructions instead of full target audio descriptions as text input. AUDIT achieves state-of-the-art results in both objective and subjective metrics for several audio editing tasks (e.g., adding, dropping, replacement, inpainting, super-resolution). Demo samples are available at https://audit-demo.github.io/. 

**Title:** Spectral Enhanced Rectangle Transformer for Hyperspectral Image  Denoising  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00844

**Abstract:** Denoising is a crucial step for hyperspectral image (HSI) applications. Though witnessing the great power of deep learning, existing HSI denoising methods suffer from limitations in capturing the non-local self-similarity. Transformers have shown potential in capturing long-range dependencies, but few attempts have been made with specifically designed Transformer to model the spatial and spectral correlation in HSIs. In this paper, we address these issues by proposing a spectral enhanced rectangle Transformer, driving it to explore the non-local spatial similarity and global spectral low-rank property of HSIs. For the former, we exploit the rectangle self-attention horizontally and vertically to capture the non-local similarity in the spatial domain. For the latter, we design a spectral enhancement module that is capable of extracting global underlying low-rank property of spatial-spectral cubes to suppress noise, while enabling the interactions among non-overlapping spatial rectangles. Extensive experiments have been conducted on both synthetic noisy HSIs and real noisy HSIs, showing the effectiveness of our proposed method in terms of both objective metric and subjective visual quality. The code is available at https://github.com/MyuLi/SERT. 

**Title:** GreekBART: The First Pretrained Greek Sequence-to-Sequence Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00869

**Abstract:** The era of transfer learning has revolutionized the fields of Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing, bringing powerful pretrained models with exceptional performance across a variety of tasks. Specifically, Natural Language Processing tasks have been dominated by transformer-based language models. In Natural Language Inference and Natural Language Generation tasks, the BERT model and its variants, as well as the GPT model and its successors, demonstrated exemplary performance. However, the majority of these models are pretrained and assessed primarily for the English language or on a multilingual corpus. In this paper, we introduce GreekBART, the first Seq2Seq model based on BART-base architecture and pretrained on a large-scale Greek corpus. We evaluate and compare GreekBART against BART-random, Greek-BERT, and XLM-R on a variety of discriminative tasks. In addition, we examine its performance on two NLG tasks from GreekSUM, a newly introduced summarization dataset for the Greek language. The model, the code, and the new summarization dataset will be publicly available. 

**Title:** Laplace-fPINNs: Laplace-based fractional physics-informed neural  networks for solving forward and inverse problems of subdiffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00909

**Abstract:** The use of Physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) has shown promise in solving forward and inverse problems of fractional diffusion equations. However, due to the fact that automatic differentiation is not applicable for fractional derivatives, solving fractional diffusion equations using PINNs requires addressing additional challenges. To address this issue, this paper proposes an extension to PINNs called Laplace-based fractional physics-informed neural networks (Laplace-fPINNs), which can effectively solve the forward and inverse problems of fractional diffusion equations. This approach avoids introducing a mass of auxiliary points and simplifies the loss function. We validate the effectiveness of the Laplace-fPINNs approach using several examples. Our numerical results demonstrate that the Laplace-fPINNs method can effectively solve both the forward and inverse problems of high-dimensional fractional diffusion equations. 

**Title:** DreamAvatar: Text-and-Shape Guided 3D Human Avatar Generation via  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00916

**Abstract:** We present DreamAvatar, a text-and-shape guided framework for generating high-quality 3D human avatars with controllable poses. While encouraging results have been produced by recent methods on text-guided 3D common object generation, generating high-quality human avatars remains an open challenge due to the complexity of the human body's shape, pose, and appearance. We propose DreamAvatar to tackle this challenge, which utilizes a trainable NeRF for predicting density and color features for 3D points and a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model for providing 2D self-supervision. Specifically, we leverage SMPL models to provide rough pose and shape guidance for the generation. We introduce a dual space design that comprises a canonical space and an observation space, which are related by a learnable deformation field through the NeRF, allowing for the transfer of well-optimized texture and geometry from the canonical space to the target posed avatar. Additionally, we exploit a normal-consistency regularization to allow for more vivid generation with detailed geometry and texture. Through extensive evaluations, we demonstrate that DreamAvatar significantly outperforms existing methods, establishing a new state-of-the-art for text-and-shape guided 3D human generation. 

**Title:** Online Lane Graph Extraction from Onboard Video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00930

**Abstract:** Autonomous driving requires a structured understanding of the surrounding road network to navigate. One of the most common and useful representation of such an understanding is done in the form of BEV lane graphs. In this work, we use the video stream from an onboard camera for online extraction of the surrounding's lane graph. Using video, instead of a single image, as input poses both benefits and challenges in terms of combining the information from different timesteps. We study the emerged challenges using three different approaches. The first approach is a post-processing step that is capable of merging single frame lane graph estimates into a unified lane graph. The second approach uses the spatialtemporal embeddings in the transformer to enable the network to discover the best temporal aggregation strategy. Finally, the third, and the proposed method, is an early temporal aggregation through explicit BEV projection and alignment of framewise features. A single model of this proposed simple, yet effective, method can process any number of images, including one, to produce accurate lane graphs. The experiments on the Nuscenes and Argoverse datasets show the validity of all the approaches while highlighting the superiority of the proposed method. The code will be made public. 

**Title:** RePAST: Relative Pose Attention Scene Representation Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00947

**Abstract:** The Scene Representation Transformer (SRT) is a recent method to render novel views at interactive rates. Since SRT uses camera poses with respect to an arbitrarily chosen reference camera, it is not invariant to the order of the input views. As a result, SRT is not directly applicable to large-scale scenes where the reference frame would need to be changed regularly. In this work, we propose Relative Pose Attention SRT (RePAST): Instead of fixing a reference frame at the input, we inject pairwise relative camera pose information directly into the attention mechanism of the Transformers. This leads to a model that is by definition invariant to the choice of any global reference frame, while still retaining the full capabilities of the original method. Empirical results show that adding this invariance to the model does not lead to a loss in quality. We believe that this is a step towards applying fully latent transformer-based rendering methods to large-scale scenes. 

**Title:** VTAE: Variational Transformer Autoencoder with Manifolds Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00948

**Abstract:** Deep generative models have demonstrated successful applications in learning non-linear data distributions through a number of latent variables and these models use a nonlinear function (generator) to map latent samples into the data space. On the other hand, the nonlinearity of the generator implies that the latent space shows an unsatisfactory projection of the data space, which results in poor representation learning. This weak projection, however, can be addressed by a Riemannian metric, and we show that geodesics computation and accurate interpolations between data samples on the Riemannian manifold can substantially improve the performance of deep generative models. In this paper, a Variational spatial-Transformer AutoEncoder (VTAE) is proposed to minimize geodesics on a Riemannian manifold and improve representation learning. In particular, we carefully design the variational autoencoder with an encoded spatial-Transformer to explicitly expand the latent variable model to data on a Riemannian manifold, and obtain global context modelling. Moreover, to have smooth and plausible interpolations while traversing between two different objects' latent representations, we propose a geodesic interpolation network different from the existing models that use linear interpolation with inferior performance. Experiments on benchmarks show that our proposed model can improve predictive accuracy and versatility over a range of computer vision tasks, including image interpolations, and reconstructions. 

**Title:** Robust Text-driven Image Editing Method that Adaptively Explores  Directions in Latent Spaces of StyleGAN and CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00964

**Abstract:** Automatic image editing has great demands because of its numerous applications, and the use of natural language instructions is essential to achieving flexible and intuitive editing as the user imagines. A pioneering work in text-driven image editing, StyleCLIP, finds an edit direction in the CLIP space and then edits the image by mapping the direction to the StyleGAN space. At the same time, it is difficult to tune appropriate inputs other than the original image and text instructions for image editing. In this study, we propose a method to construct the edit direction adaptively in the StyleGAN and CLIP spaces with SVM. Our model represents the edit direction as a normal vector in the CLIP space obtained by training a SVM to classify positive and negative images. The images are retrieved from a large-scale image corpus, originally used for pre-training StyleGAN, according to the CLIP similarity between the images and the text instruction. We confirmed that our model performed as well as the StyleCLIP baseline, whereas it allows simple inputs without increasing the computational time. 

**Title:** Understanding Individual and Team-based Human Factors in Detecting  Deepfake Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01002

**Abstract:** In recent years, Natural Language Generation (NLG) techniques in AI (e.g., T5, GPT-3, ChatGPT) have shown a massive improvement and are now capable of generating human-like long coherent texts at scale, yielding so-called deepfake texts. This advancement, despite their benefits, can also cause security and privacy issues (e.g., plagiarism, identity obfuscation, disinformation attack). As such, it has become critically important to develop effective, practical, and scalable solutions to differentiate deepfake texts from human-written texts. Toward this challenge, in this work, we investigate how factors such as skill levels and collaborations impact how humans identify deepfake texts, studying three research questions: (1) do collaborative teams detect deepfake texts better than individuals? (2) do expert humans detect deepfake texts better than non-expert humans? (3) what are the factors that maximize the detection performance of humans? We implement these questions on two platforms: (1) non-expert humans or asynchronous teams on Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) and (2) expert humans or synchronous teams on the Upwork. By analyzing the detection performance and the factors that affected performance, some of our key findings are: (1) expert humans detect deepfake texts significantly better than non-expert humans, (2) synchronous teams on the Upwork detect deepfake texts significantly better than individuals, while asynchronous teams on the AMT detect deepfake texts weakly better than individuals, and (3) among various error categories, examining coherence and consistency in texts is useful in detecting deepfake texts. In conclusion, our work could inform the design of future tools/framework to improve collaborative human detection of deepfake texts. 

**Title:** QUADRo: Dataset and Models for QUestion-Answer Database Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01003

**Abstract:** An effective paradigm for building Automated Question Answering systems is the re-use of previously answered questions, e.g., for FAQs or forum applications. Given a database (DB) of question/answer (q/a) pairs, it is possible to answer a target question by scanning the DB for similar questions. In this paper, we scale this approach to open domain, making it competitive with other standard methods, e.g., unstructured document or graph based. For this purpose, we (i) build a large scale DB of 6.3M q/a pairs, using public questions, (ii) design a new system based on neural IR and a q/a pair reranker, and (iii) construct training and test data to perform comparative experiments with our models. We demonstrate that Transformer-based models using (q,a) pairs outperform models only based on question representation, for both neural search and reranking. Additionally, we show that our DB-based approach is competitive with Web-based methods, i.e., a QA system built on top the BING search engine, demonstrating the challenge of finding relevant information. Finally, we make our data and models available for future research. 

**Title:** Federated Learning Based Multilingual Emoji Prediction In Clean and  Attack Scenarios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01005

**Abstract:** Federated learning is a growing field in the machine learning community due to its decentralized and private design. Model training in federated learning is distributed over multiple clients giving access to lots of client data while maintaining privacy. Then, a server aggregates the training done on these multiple clients without access to their data, which could be emojis widely used in any social media service and instant messaging platforms to express users' sentiments. This paper proposes federated learning-based multilingual emoji prediction in both clean and attack scenarios. Emoji prediction data have been crawled from both Twitter and SemEval emoji datasets. This data is used to train and evaluate different transformer model sizes including a sparsely activated transformer with either the assumption of clean data in all clients or poisoned data via label flipping attack in some clients. Experimental results on these models show that federated learning in either clean or attacked scenarios performs similarly to centralized training in multilingual emoji prediction on seen and unseen languages under different data sources and distributions. Our trained transformers perform better than other techniques on the SemEval emoji dataset in addition to the privacy as well as distributed benefits of federated learning. 

**Title:** ViT-DAE: Transformer-driven Diffusion Autoencoder for Histopathology  Image Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01053

**Abstract:** Generative AI has received substantial attention in recent years due to its ability to synthesize data that closely resembles the original data source. While Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have provided innovative approaches for histopathological image analysis, they suffer from limitations such as mode collapse and overfitting in discriminator. Recently, Denoising Diffusion models have demonstrated promising results in computer vision. These models exhibit superior stability during training, better distribution coverage, and produce high-quality diverse images. Additionally, they display a high degree of resilience to noise and perturbations, making them well-suited for use in digital pathology, where images commonly contain artifacts and exhibit significant variations in staining. In this paper, we present a novel approach, namely ViT-DAE, which integrates vision transformers (ViT) and diffusion autoencoders for high-quality histopathology image synthesis. This marks the first time that ViT has been introduced to diffusion autoencoders in computational pathology, allowing the model to better capture the complex and intricate details of histopathology images. We demonstrate the effectiveness of ViT-DAE on three publicly available datasets. Our approach outperforms recent GAN-based and vanilla DAE methods in generating realistic images. 

**Title:** VoxelFormer: Bird's-Eye-View Feature Generation based on Dual-view  Attention for Multi-view 3D Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01054

**Abstract:** In recent years, transformer-based detectors have demonstrated remarkable performance in 2D visual perception tasks. However, their performance in multi-view 3D object detection remains inferior to the state-of-the-art (SOTA) of convolutional neural network based detectors. In this work, we investigate this issue from the perspective of bird's-eye-view (BEV) feature generation. Specifically, we examine the BEV feature generation method employed by the transformer-based SOTA, BEVFormer, and identify its two limitations: (i) it only generates attention weights from BEV, which precludes the use of lidar points for supervision, and (ii) it aggregates camera view features to the BEV through deformable sampling, which only selects a small subset of features and fails to exploit all information. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel BEV feature generation method, dual-view attention, which generates attention weights from both the BEV and camera view. This method encodes all camera features into the BEV feature. By combining dual-view attention with the BEVFormer architecture, we build a new detector named VoxelFormer. Extensive experiments are conducted on the nuScenes benchmark to verify the superiority of dual-view attention and VoxelForer. We observe that even only adopting 3 encoders and 1 historical frame during training, VoxelFormer still outperforms BEVFormer significantly. When trained in the same setting, VoxelFormer can surpass BEVFormer by 4.9% NDS point. Code is available at: https://github.com/Lizhuoling/VoxelFormer-public.git. 

**Title:** A Nodally Bound-Preserving Finite Element Method  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01067

**Abstract:** This work proposes a nonlinear finite element method whose nodal values preserve bounds known for the exact solution. The discrete problem involves a nonlinear projection operator mapping arbitrary nodal values into bound-preserving ones and seeks the numerical solution in the range of this projection. As the projection is not injective, a stabilisation based upon the complementary projection is added in order to restore well-posedness. Within the framework of elliptic problems, the discrete problem may be viewed as a reformulation of a discrete obstacle problem, incorporating the inequality constraints through Lipschitz projections. The derivation of the proposed method is exemplified for linear and nonlinear reaction-diffusion problems. Near-best approximation results in suitable norms are established. In particular, we prove that, in the linear case, the numerical solution is the best approximation in the energy norm among all nodally bound-preserving finite element functions. A series of numerical experiments for such problems showcase the good behaviour of the proposed bound-preserving finite element method. 

**Title:** Changes to Captions: An Attentive Network for Remote Sensing Change  Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01091

**Abstract:** In recent years, advanced research has focused on the direct learning and analysis of remote sensing images using natural language processing (NLP) techniques. The ability to accurately describe changes occurring in multi-temporal remote sensing images is becoming increasingly important for geospatial understanding and land planning. Unlike natural image change captioning tasks, remote sensing change captioning aims to capture the most significant changes, irrespective of various influential factors such as illumination, seasonal effects, and complex land covers. In this study, we highlight the significance of accurately describing changes in remote sensing images and present a comparison of the change captioning task for natural and synthetic images and remote sensing images. To address the challenge of generating accurate captions, we propose an attentive changes-to-captions network, called Chg2Cap for short, for bi-temporal remote sensing images. The network comprises three main components: 1) a Siamese CNN-based feature extractor to collect high-level representations for each image pair; 2) an attentive decoder that includes a hierarchical self-attention block to locate change-related features and a residual block to generate the image embedding; and 3) a transformer-based caption generator to decode the relationship between the image embedding and the word embedding into a description. The proposed Chg2Cap network is evaluated on two representative remote sensing datasets, and a comprehensive experimental analysis is provided. The code and pre-trained models will be available online at https://github.com/ShizhenChang/Chg2Cap. 

**Title:** DoctorGLM: Fine-tuning your Chinese Doctor is not a Herculean Task  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01097

**Abstract:** The recent progress of large language models (LLMs), including ChatGPT and GPT-4, in comprehending and responding to human instructions has been remarkable. Nevertheless, these models typically perform better in English and have not been explicitly trained for the medical domain, resulting in suboptimal precision in diagnoses, drug recommendations, and other medical advice. Additionally, training and deploying a dialogue model is still believed to be impossible for hospitals, hindering the promotion of LLMs. To tackle these challenges, we have collected databases of medical dialogues in Chinese with ChatGPT's help and adopted several techniques to train an easy-deploy LLM. Remarkably, we were able to fine-tune the ChatGLM-6B on a single A100 80G in 13 hours, which means having a healthcare-purpose LLM can be very affordable. DoctorGLM is currently an early-stage engineering attempt and contain various mistakes. We are sharing it with the broader community to invite feedback and suggestions to improve its healthcare-focused capabilities: https://github.com/xionghonglin/DoctorGLM. 

**Title:** Crossword: A Semantic Approach to Data Compression via Masking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01106

**Abstract:** The traditional methods for data compression are typically based on the symbol-level statistics, with the information source modeled as a long sequence of i.i.d. random variables or a stochastic process, thus establishing the fundamental limit as entropy for lossless compression and as mutual information for lossy compression. However, the source (including text, music, and speech) in the real world is often statistically ill-defined because of its close connection to human perception, and thus the model-driven approach can be quite suboptimal. This study places careful emphasis on English text and exploits its semantic aspect to enhance the compression efficiency further. The main idea stems from the puzzle crossword, observing that the hidden words can still be precisely reconstructed so long as some key letters are provided. The proposed masking-based strategy resembles the above game. In a nutshell, the encoder evaluates the semantic importance of each word according to the semantic loss and then masks the minor ones, while the decoder aims to recover the masked words from the semantic context by means of the Transformer. Our experiments show that the proposed semantic approach can achieve much higher compression efficiency than the traditional methods such as Huffman code and UTF-8 code, while preserving the meaning in the target text to a great extent. 

**Title:** AutoLabel: CLIP-based framework for Open-set Video Domain Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01110

**Abstract:** Open-set Unsupervised Video Domain Adaptation (OUVDA) deals with the task of adapting an action recognition model from a labelled source domain to an unlabelled target domain that contains "target-private" categories, which are present in the target but absent in the source. In this work we deviate from the prior work of training a specialized open-set classifier or weighted adversarial learning by proposing to use pre-trained Language and Vision Models (CLIP). The CLIP is well suited for OUVDA due to its rich representation and the zero-shot recognition capabilities. However, rejecting target-private instances with the CLIP's zero-shot protocol requires oracle knowledge about the target-private label names. To circumvent the impossibility of the knowledge of label names, we propose AutoLabel that automatically discovers and generates object-centric compositional candidate target-private class names. Despite its simplicity, we show that CLIP when equipped with AutoLabel can satisfactorily reject the target-private instances, thereby facilitating better alignment between the shared classes of the two domains. The code is available. 

**Title:** ReMoDiffuse: Retrieval-Augmented Motion Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01116

**Abstract:** 3D human motion generation is crucial for creative industry. Recent advances rely on generative models with domain knowledge for text-driven motion generation, leading to substantial progress in capturing common motions. However, the performance on more diverse motions remains unsatisfactory. In this work, we propose ReMoDiffuse, a diffusion-model-based motion generation framework that integrates a retrieval mechanism to refine the denoising process. ReMoDiffuse enhances the generalizability and diversity of text-driven motion generation with three key designs: 1) Hybrid Retrieval finds appropriate references from the database in terms of both semantic and kinematic similarities. 2) Semantic-Modulated Transformer selectively absorbs retrieval knowledge, adapting to the difference between retrieved samples and the target motion sequence. 3) Condition Mixture better utilizes the retrieval database during inference, overcoming the scale sensitivity in classifier-free guidance. Extensive experiments demonstrate that ReMoDiffuse outperforms state-of-the-art methods by balancing both text-motion consistency and motion quality, especially for more diverse motion generation. 

**Title:** Rethinking Context Aggregation in Natural Image Matting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01171

**Abstract:** For natural image matting, context information plays a crucial role in estimating alpha mattes especially when it is challenging to distinguish foreground from its background. Exiting deep learning-based methods exploit specifically designed context aggregation modules to refine encoder features. However, the effectiveness of these modules has not been thoroughly explored. In this paper, we conduct extensive experiments to reveal that the context aggregation modules are actually not as effective as expected. We also demonstrate that when learned on large image patches, basic encoder-decoder networks with a larger receptive field can effectively aggregate context to achieve better performance.Upon the above findings, we propose a simple yet effective matting network, named AEMatter, which enlarges the receptive field by incorporating an appearance-enhanced axis-wise learning block into the encoder and adopting a hybrid-transformer decoder. Experimental results on four datasets demonstrate that our AEMatter significantly outperforms state-of-the-art matting methods (e.g., on the Adobe Composition-1K dataset, \textbf{25\%} and \textbf{40\%} reduction in terms of SAD and MSE, respectively, compared against MatteFormer). The code and model are available at \url{https://github.com/QLYoo/AEMatter}. 

**Title:** Hate Speech Targets Detection in Parler using BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01179

**Abstract:** Online social networks have become a fundamental component of our everyday life. Unfortunately, these platforms are also a stage for hate speech. Popular social networks have regularized rules against hate speech. Consequently, social networks like Parler and Gab advocating and claiming to be free speech platforms have evolved. These platforms have become a district for hate speech against diverse targets. We present in our paper a pipeline for detecting hate speech and its targets and use it for creating Parler hate targets' distribution. The pipeline consists of two models; one for hate speech detection and the second for target classification, both based on BERT with Back-Translation and data pre-processing for improved results. The source code used in this work, as well as other relevant sources, are available at: https://github.com/NadavSc/HateRecognition.git 

**Title:** Learning to Read Braille: Bridging the Tactile Reality Gap with  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01182

**Abstract:** Simulating vision-based tactile sensors enables learning models for contact-rich tasks when collecting real world data at scale can be prohibitive. However, modeling the optical response of the gel deformation as well as incorporating the dynamics of the contact makes sim2real challenging. Prior works have explored data augmentation, fine-tuning, or learning generative models to reduce the sim2real gap. In this work, we present the first method to leverage probabilistic diffusion models for capturing complex illumination changes from gel deformations. Our tactile diffusion model is able to generate realistic tactile images from simulated contact depth bridging the reality gap for vision-based tactile sensing. On real braille reading task with a DIGIT sensor, a classifier trained with our diffusion model achieves 75.74% accuracy outperforming classifiers trained with simulation and other approaches. Project page: https://github.com/carolinahiguera/Tactile-Diffusion 

**Title:** WeakTr: Exploring Plain Vision Transformer for Weakly-supervised  Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01184

**Abstract:** This paper explores the properties of the plain Vision Transformer (ViT) for Weakly-supervised Semantic Segmentation (WSSS). The class activation map (CAM) is of critical importance for understanding a classification network and launching WSSS. We observe that different attention heads of ViT focus on different image areas. Thus a novel weight-based method is proposed to end-to-end estimate the importance of attention heads, while the self-attention maps are adaptively fused for high-quality CAM results that tend to have more complete objects. Besides, we propose a ViT-based gradient clipping decoder for online retraining with the CAM results to complete the WSSS task. We name this plain Transformer-based Weakly-supervised learning framework WeakTr. It achieves the state-of-the-art WSSS performance on standard benchmarks, i.e., 78.4% mIoU on the val set of PASCAL VOC 2012 and 50.3% mIoU on the val set of COCO 2014. Code is available at https://github.com/hustvl/WeakTr. 

**Title:** Burstormer: Burst Image Restoration and Enhancement Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01194

**Abstract:** On a shutter press, modern handheld cameras capture multiple images in rapid succession and merge them to generate a single image. However, individual frames in a burst are misaligned due to inevitable motions and contain multiple degradations. The challenge is to properly align the successive image shots and merge their complimentary information to achieve high-quality outputs. Towards this direction, we propose Burstormer: a novel transformer-based architecture for burst image restoration and enhancement. In comparison to existing works, our approach exploits multi-scale local and non-local features to achieve improved alignment and feature fusion. Our key idea is to enable inter-frame communication in the burst neighborhoods for information aggregation and progressive fusion while modeling the burst-wide context. However, the input burst frames need to be properly aligned before fusing their information. Therefore, we propose an enhanced deformable alignment module for aligning burst features with regards to the reference frame. Unlike existing methods, the proposed alignment module not only aligns burst features but also exchanges feature information and maintains focused communication with the reference frame through the proposed reference-based feature enrichment mechanism, which facilitates handling complex motions. After multi-level alignment and enrichment, we re-emphasize on inter-frame communication within burst using a cyclic burst sampling module. Finally, the inter-frame information is aggregated using the proposed burst feature fusion module followed by progressive upsampling. Our Burstormer outperforms state-of-the-art methods on burst super-resolution, burst denoising and burst low-light enhancement. Our codes and pretrained models are available at https:// github.com/akshaydudhane16/Burstormer 

**Title:** Not All Features Matter: Enhancing Few-shot CLIP with Adaptive Prior  Refinement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01195

**Abstract:** The popularity of Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has propelled its application to diverse downstream vision tasks. To improve its capacity on downstream tasks, few-shot learning has become a widely-adopted technique. However, existing methods either exhibit limited performance or suffer from excessive learnable parameters. In this paper, we propose APE, an Adaptive Prior rEfinement method for CLIP's pre-trained knowledge, which achieves superior accuracy with high computational efficiency. Via a prior refinement module, we analyze the inter-class disparity in the downstream data and decouple the domain-specific knowledge from the CLIP-extracted cache model. On top of that, we introduce two model variants, a training-free APE and a training-required APE-T. We explore the trilateral affinities between the test image, prior cache model, and textual representations, and only enable a lightweight category-residual module to be trained. For the average accuracy over 11 benchmarks, both APE and APE-T attain state-of-the-art and respectively outperform the second-best by +1.59% and +1.99% under 16 shots with x30 less learnable parameters. 

**Title:** Baize: An Open-Source Chat Model with Parameter-Efficient Tuning on  Self-Chat Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01196

**Abstract:** Chat models, such as ChatGPT, have shown impressive capabilities and have been rapidly adopted across numerous domains. However, these models are only accessible through a restricted API, creating barriers for new research and progress in the field. We propose a pipeline that can automatically generate a high-quality multi-turn chat corpus by leveraging ChatGPT to engage in a conversation with itself. Subsequently, we employ parameter-efficient tuning to enhance LLaMA, an open-source large language model. The resulting model, named Baize, demonstrates good performance in multi-turn dialogues with guardrails that minimize potential risks. 

**Title:** Abstractors: Transformer Modules for Symbolic Message Passing and  Relational Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00195

**Abstract:** A framework is proposed that casts relational learning in terms of transformers, implementing binding between sensory states and abstract states with relational cross attention mechanisms. 

**Title:** Diffusion map particle systems for generative modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00200

**Abstract:** We propose a novel diffusion map particle system (DMPS) for generative modeling, based on diffusion maps and Laplacian-adjusted Wasserstein gradient descent (LAWGD). Diffusion maps are used to approximate the generator of the Langevin diffusion process from samples, and hence to learn the underlying data-generating manifold. On the other hand, LAWGD enables efficient sampling from the target distribution given a suitable choice of kernel, which we construct here via a spectral approximation of the generator, computed with diffusion maps. Numerical experiments show that our method outperforms others on synthetic datasets, including examples with manifold structure. 

**Title:** Ideal Observer Computation by Use of Markov-Chain Monte Carlo with  Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00433

**Abstract:** Medical imaging systems are often evaluated and optimized via objective, or task-specific, measures of image quality (IQ) that quantify the performance of an observer on a specific clinically-relevant task. The performance of the Bayesian Ideal Observer (IO) sets an upper limit among all observers, numerical or human, and has been advocated for use as a figure-of-merit (FOM) for evaluating and optimizing medical imaging systems. However, the IO test statistic corresponds to the likelihood ratio that is intractable to compute in the majority of cases. A sampling-based method that employs Markov-Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques was previously proposed to estimate the IO performance. However, current applications of MCMC methods for IO approximation have been limited to a small number of situations where the considered distribution of to-be-imaged objects can be described by a relatively simple stochastic object model (SOM). As such, there remains an important need to extend the domain of applicability of MCMC methods to address a large variety of scenarios where IO-based assessments are needed but the associated SOMs have not been available. In this study, a novel MCMC method that employs a generative adversarial network (GAN)-based SOM, referred to as MCMC-GAN, is described and evaluated. The MCMC-GAN method was quantitatively validated by use of test-cases for which reference solutions were available. The results demonstrate that the MCMC-GAN method can extend the domain of applicability of MCMC methods for conducting IO analyses of medical imaging systems. 

**Title:** Diffusion Bridge Mixture Transports, Schrdinger Bridge Problems and  Generative Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00917

**Abstract:** The dynamic Schr\"odinger bridge problem seeks a stochastic process that defines a transport between two target probability measures, while optimally satisfying the criteria of being closest, in terms of Kullback-Leibler divergence, to a reference process. 

**Title:** Deep Learning-based Diffusion Tensor Cardiac Magnetic Resonance  Reconstruction: A Comparison Studies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.00996

**Abstract:** In vivo cardiac diffusion tensor imaging (cDTI) is a promising Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) technique for evaluating the micro-structure of myocardial tissue in the living heart, providing insights into cardiac function and enabling the development of innovative therapeutic strategies. However, the integration of cDTI into routine clinical practice is challenging due to the technical obstacles involved in the acquisition, such as low signal-to-noise ratio and long scanning times. In this paper, we investigate and implement three different types of deep learning-based MRI reconstruction models for cDTI reconstruction. We evaluate the performance of these models based on reconstruction quality assessment and diffusion tensor parameter assessment. Our results indicate that the models we discussed in this study can be applied for clinical use at an acceleration factor (AF) of $\times 2$ and $\times 4$, with the D5C5 model showing superior fidelity for reconstruction and the SwinMR model providing higher perceptual scores. There is no statistical difference with the reference for all diffusion tensor parameters at AF $\times 2$ or most DT parameters at AF $\times 4$, and the quality of most diffusion tensor parameter maps are visually acceptable. SwinMR is recommended as the optimal approach for reconstruction at AF $\times 2$ and AF $\times 4$. However, we believed the models discussed in this studies are not prepared for clinical use at a higher AF. At AF $\times 8$, the performance of all models discussed remains limited, with only half of the diffusion tensor parameters being recovered to a level with no statistical difference from the reference. Some diffusion tensor parameter maps even provide wrong and misleading information. 

