**Title:** Automatic Geo-alignment of Artwork in Children's Story Books  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01204

**Abstract:** A study was conducted to prove AI software could be used to translate and generate illustrations without any human intervention. This was done with the purpose of showing and distributing it to the external customer, Pratham Books. The project aligns with the company's vision by leveraging the generalisation and scalability of Machine Learning algorithms, offering significant cost efficiency increases to a wide range of literary audiences in varied geographical locations. A comparative study methodology was utilised to determine the best performant method out of the 3 devised, Prompt Augmentation using Keywords, CLIP Embedding Mask, and Cross Attention Control with Editorial Prompts. A thorough evaluation process was completed using both quantitative and qualitative measures. Each method had its own strengths and weaknesses, but through the evaluation, method 1 was found to have the best yielding results. Promising future advancements may be made to further increase image quality by incorporating Large Language Models and personalised stylistic models. The presented approach can also be adapted to Video and 3D sculpture generation for novel illustrations in digital webbooks. 

**Title:** NeuroDAVIS: A neural network model for data visualization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01222

**Abstract:** The task of dimensionality reduction and visualization of high-dimensional datasets remains a challenging problem since long. Modern high-throughput technologies produce newer high-dimensional datasets having multiple views with relatively new data types. Visualization of these datasets require proper methodology that can uncover hidden patterns in the data without affecting the local and global structures within the data. To this end, however, very few such methodology exist, which can realise this task. In this work, we have introduced a novel unsupervised deep neural network model, called NeuroDAVIS, for data visualization. NeuroDAVIS is capable of extracting important features from the data, without assuming any data distribution, and visualize effectively in lower dimension. It has been shown theoritically that neighbourhood relationship of the data in high dimension remains preserved in lower dimension. The performance of NeuroDAVIS has been evaluated on a wide variety of synthetic and real high-dimensional datasets including numeric, textual, image and biological data. NeuroDAVIS has been highly competitive against both t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE) and Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP) with respect to visualization quality, and preservation of data size, shape, and both local and global structure. It has outperformed Fast interpolation-based t-SNE (Fit-SNE), a variant of t-SNE, for most of the high-dimensional datasets as well. For the biological datasets, besides t-SNE, UMAP and Fit-SNE, NeuroDAVIS has also performed well compared to other state-of-the-art algorithms, like Potential of Heat-diffusion for Affinity-based Trajectory Embedding (PHATE) and the siamese neural network-based method, called IVIS. Downstream classification and clustering analyses have also revealed favourable results for NeuroDAVIS-generated embeddings. 

**Title:** Multi-Modal Perceiver Language Model for Outcome Prediction in Emergency  Department  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01233

**Abstract:** Language modeling have shown impressive progress in generating compelling text with good accuracy and high semantic coherence. An interesting research direction is to augment these powerful models for specific applications using contextual information. In this work, we explore multi-modal language modeling for healthcare applications. We are interested in outcome prediction and patient triage in hospital emergency department based on text information in chief complaints and vital signs recorded at triage. We adapt Perceiver - a modality-agnostic transformer-based model that has shown promising results in several applications. Since vital-sign modality is represented in tabular format, we modified Perceiver position encoding to ensure permutation invariance. We evaluated the multi-modal language model for the task of diagnosis code prediction using MIMIC-IV ED dataset on 120K visits. In the experimental analysis, we show that mutli-modality improves the prediction performance compared with models trained solely on text or vital signs. We identified disease categories for which multi-modality leads to performance improvement and show that for these categories, vital signs have added predictive power. By analyzing the cross-attention layer, we show how multi-modality contributes to model predictions. This work gives interesting insights on the development of multi-modal language models for healthcare applications. 

**Title:** Spam-T5: Benchmarking Large Language Models for Few-Shot Email Spam  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01238

**Abstract:** This paper investigates the effectiveness of large language models (LLMs) in email spam detection by comparing prominent models from three distinct families: BERT-like, Sentence Transformers, and Seq2Seq. Additionally, we examine well-established machine learning techniques for spam detection, such as Na\"ive Bayes and LightGBM, as baseline methods. We assess the performance of these models across four public datasets, utilizing different numbers of training samples (full training set and few-shot settings). Our findings reveal that, in the majority of cases, LLMs surpass the performance of the popular baseline techniques, particularly in few-shot scenarios. This adaptability renders LLMs uniquely suited to spam detection tasks, where labeled samples are limited in number and models require frequent updates. Additionally, we introduce Spam-T5, a Flan-T5 model that has been specifically adapted and fine-tuned for the purpose of detecting email spam. Our results demonstrate that Spam-T5 surpasses baseline models and other LLMs in the majority of scenarios, particularly when there are a limited number of training samples available. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/jpmorganchase/emailspamdetection. 

**Title:** Detection of Homophobia & Transphobia in Dravidian Languages: Exploring  Deep Learning Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01241

**Abstract:** The increase in abusive content on online social media platforms is impacting the social life of online users. Use of offensive and hate speech has been making so-cial media toxic. Homophobia and transphobia constitute offensive comments against LGBT+ community. It becomes imperative to detect and handle these comments, to timely flag or issue a warning to users indulging in such behaviour. However, automated detection of such content is a challenging task, more so in Dravidian languages which are identified as low resource languages. Motivated by this, the paper attempts to explore applicability of different deep learning mod-els for classification of the social media comments in Malayalam and Tamil lan-guages as homophobic, transphobic and non-anti-LGBT+content. The popularly used deep learning models- Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) using GloVe embedding and transformer-based learning models (Multilingual BERT and IndicBERT) are applied to the classification problem. Results obtained show that IndicBERT outperforms the other imple-mented models, with obtained weighted average F1-score of 0.86 and 0.77 for Malayalam and Tamil, respectively. Therefore, the present work confirms higher performance of IndicBERT on the given task in selected Dravidian languages. 

**Title:** Safety Analysis in the Era of Large Language Models: A Case Study of  STPA using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01246

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and BERT, are leading a new AI heatwave due to its human-like conversations with detailed and articulate answers across many domains of knowledge. While LLMs are being quickly applied to many AI application domains, we are interested in the following question: Can safety analysis for safety-critical systems make use of LLMs? To answer, we conduct a case study of Systems Theoretic Process Analysis (STPA) on Automatic Emergency Brake (AEB) systems using ChatGPT. STPA, one of the most prevalent techniques for hazard analysis, is known to have limitations such as high complexity and subjectivity, which this paper aims to explore the use of ChatGPT to address. Specifically, three ways of incorporating ChatGPT into STPA are investigated by considering its interaction with human experts: one-off simplex interaction, recurring simplex interaction, and recurring duplex interaction. Comparative results reveal that: (i) using ChatGPT without human experts' intervention can be inadequate due to reliability and accuracy issues of LLMs; (ii) more interactions between ChatGPT and human experts may yield better results; and (iii) using ChatGPT in STPA with extra care can outperform human safety experts alone, as demonstrated by reusing an existing comparison method with baselines. In addition to making the first attempt to apply LLMs in safety analysis, this paper also identifies key challenges (e.g., trustworthiness concern of LLMs, the need of standardisation) for future research in this direction. 

**Title:** Generative Diffusion Prior for Unified Image Restoration and Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01247

**Abstract:** Existing image restoration methods mostly leverage the posterior distribution of natural images. However, they often assume known degradation and also require supervised training, which restricts their adaptation to complex real applications. In this work, we propose the Generative Diffusion Prior (GDP) to effectively model the posterior distributions in an unsupervised sampling manner. GDP utilizes a pre-train denoising diffusion generative model (DDPM) for solving linear inverse, non-linear, or blind problems. Specifically, GDP systematically explores a protocol of conditional guidance, which is verified more practical than the commonly used guidance way. Furthermore, GDP is strength at optimizing the parameters of degradation model during the denoising process, achieving blind image restoration. Besides, we devise hierarchical guidance and patch-based methods, enabling the GDP to generate images of arbitrary resolutions. Experimentally, we demonstrate GDP's versatility on several image datasets for linear problems, such as super-resolution, deblurring, inpainting, and colorization, as well as non-linear and blind issues, such as low-light enhancement and HDR image recovery. GDP outperforms the current leading unsupervised methods on the diverse benchmarks in reconstruction quality and perceptual quality. Moreover, GDP also generalizes well for natural images or synthesized images with arbitrary sizes from various tasks out of the distribution of the ImageNet training set. 

**Title:** On the Prime Number Divisibility by Deep Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01333

**Abstract:** Certain tasks such as determining whether a given integer can be divided by 2, 3, or other prime numbers may be trivial for human beings, but can be less straightforward for computers in the absence of pre-specified algorithms. In this paper, we tested multiple deep learning architectures and feature engineering approaches, and evaluated the scenario of determining divisibility of large finite integers (up to $2^{32}$) by small prime numbers. It turns out that, regardless of the network frameworks or the complexity of the network structures (CNN, RNN, Transformer, etc.), the ability to predict the prime number divisibility critically depends on the feature space fed into the deep learning models. We also evaluated commercially available Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) pipelines from Amazon, Google and Microsoft, and demonstrated that they failed to address this issue unless appropriately engineered features were provided. We further proposed a closed form solution to the problem using the ordinary linear regression on Fourier series basis vectors, and showed its success. Finally, we evaluated prompt-based learning using ChatGPT and demonstrated its success on small primes and apparent failures on larger primes. We conclude that feature engineering remains an important task to improve the performance, increase the interpretability, and reduce the complexity of machine learning/deep learning models, even in the era of AutoML and large-language models (LLMs). 

**Title:** A Simple and Effective Method of Cross-Lingual Plagiarism Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01352

**Abstract:** We present a simple cross-lingual plagiarism detection method applicable to a large number of languages. The presented approach leverages open multilingual thesauri for candidate retrieval task and pre-trained multilingual BERT-based language models for detailed analysis. The method does not rely on machine translation and word sense disambiguation when in use, and therefore is suitable for a large number of languages, including under-resourced languages. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is demonstrated for several existing and new benchmarks, achieving state-of-the-art results for French, Russian, and Armenian languages. 

**Title:** The Interconnected Nature of Online Harm and Moderation: Investigating  the Cross-Platform Spread of Harmful Content between YouTube and Twitter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01371

**Abstract:** The proliferation of harmful content shared online poses a threat to online information integrity and the integrity of discussion across platforms. Despite various moderation interventions adopted by social media platforms, researchers and policymakers are calling for holistic solutions. This study explores how a target platform could leverage content that has been deemed harmful on a source platform by investigating the behavior and characteristics of Twitter users responsible for sharing moderated YouTube videos. Using a large-scale dataset of 600M tweets related to the 2020 U.S. election, we find that moderated Youtube videos are extensively shared on Twitter and that users who share these videos also endorse extreme and conspiratorial ideologies. A fraction of these users are eventually suspended by Twitter, but they do not appear to be involved in state-backed information operations. The findings of this study highlight the complex and interconnected nature of harmful cross-platform information diffusion, raising the need for cross-platform moderation strategies. 

**Title:** Integrating Commercial and Social Determinants of Health: A Unified  Ontology for Non-Clinical Determinants of Health  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01446

**Abstract:** The objectives of this research are 1) to develop an ontology for CDoH by utilizing PubMed articles and ChatGPT; 2) to foster ontology reuse by integrating CDoH with an existing SDoH ontology into a unified structure; 3) to devise an overarching conception for all non-clinical determinants of health and to create an initial ontology, called N-CODH, for them; 4) and to validate the degree of correspondence between concepts provided by ChatGPT with the existing SDoH ontology 

**Title:** Attention Map Guided Transformer Pruning for Edge Device  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01452

**Abstract:** Due to its significant capability of modeling long-range dependencies, vision transformer (ViT) has achieved promising success in both holistic and occluded person re-identification (Re-ID) tasks. However, the inherent problems of transformers such as the huge computational cost and memory footprint are still two unsolved issues that will block the deployment of ViT based person Re-ID models on resource-limited edge devices. Our goal is to reduce both the inference complexity and model size without sacrificing the comparable accuracy on person Re-ID, especially for tasks with occlusion. To this end, we propose a novel attention map guided (AMG) transformer pruning method, which removes both redundant tokens and heads with the guidance of the attention map in a hardware-friendly way. We first calculate the entropy in the key dimension and sum it up for the whole map, and the corresponding head parameters of maps with high entropy will be removed for model size reduction. Then we combine the similarity and first-order gradients of key tokens along the query dimension for token importance estimation and remove redundant key and value tokens to further reduce the inference complexity. Comprehensive experiments on Occluded DukeMTMC and Market-1501 demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposals. For example, our proposed pruning strategy on ViT-Base enjoys \textup{\textbf{29.4\%}} \textup{\textbf{FLOPs}} savings with \textup{\textbf{0.2\%}} drop on Rank-1 and \textup{\textbf{0.4\%}} improvement on mAP, respectively. 

**Title:** Exploring Vision-Language Models for Imbalanced Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01457

**Abstract:** Vision-Language models (VLMs) that use contrastive language-image pre-training have shown promising zero-shot classification performance. However, their performance on imbalanced dataset is relatively poor, where the distribution of classes in the training dataset is skewed, leading to poor performance in predicting minority classes. For instance, CLIP achieved only 5% accuracy on the iNaturalist18 dataset. We propose to add a lightweight decoder to VLMs to avoid OOM (out of memory) problem caused by large number of classes and capture nuanced features for tail classes. Then, we explore improvements of VLMs using prompt tuning, fine-tuning, and incorporating imbalanced algorithms such as Focal Loss, Balanced SoftMax and Distribution Alignment. Experiments demonstrate that the performance of VLMs can be further boosted when used with decoder and imbalanced methods. Specifically, our improved VLMs significantly outperforms zero-shot classification by an average accuracy of 6.58%, 69.82%, and 6.17%, on ImageNet-LT, iNaturalist18, and Places-LT, respectively. We further analyze the influence of pre-training data size, backbones, and training cost. Our study highlights the significance of imbalanced learning algorithms in face of VLMs pre-trained by huge data. We release our code at https://github.com/Imbalance-VLM/Imbalance-VLM. 

**Title:** Blockwise Compression of Transformer-based Models without Retraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01483

**Abstract:** Transformer-based models, represented by GPT-3, ChatGPT, and GPT-4, have recently attracted increasing interest, research enthusiasm, and business demand. However, their massive computation resources and huge memory footprint are inevitable challenges. To tackle this issue, we propose BCT, a framework of blockwise compression for transformers without retraining, to lower deployment thresholds. BCT achieves more fine-grained compression of the whole transformer, including embedding, matrix multiplication, GELU, Softmax, layer normalization, and all the intermediate results. As a case, we compress an efficient model with BCT and evaluate it on several General Language Understanding Evaluation (GLUE) datasets. The results show that BCT can achieve a less than 0.90% accuracy drop in most tasks. 

**Title:** To ChatGPT, or not to ChatGPT: That is the question!  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01487

**Abstract:** ChatGPT has become a global sensation. As ChatGPT and other Large Language Models (LLMs) emerge, concerns of misusing them in various ways increase, such as disseminating fake news, plagiarism, manipulating public opinion, cheating, and fraud. Hence, distinguishing AI-generated from human-generated becomes increasingly essential. Researchers have proposed various detection methodologies, ranging from basic binary classifiers to more complex deep-learning models. Some detection techniques rely on statistical characteristics or syntactic patterns, while others incorporate semantic or contextual information to improve accuracy. The primary objective of this study is to provide a comprehensive and contemporary assessment of the most recent techniques in ChatGPT detection. Additionally, we evaluated other AI-generated text detection tools that do not specifically claim to detect ChatGPT-generated content to assess their performance in detecting ChatGPT-generated content. For our evaluation, we have curated a benchmark dataset consisting of prompts from ChatGPT and humans, including diverse questions from medical, open Q&A, and finance domains and user-generated responses from popular social networking platforms. The dataset serves as a reference to assess the performance of various techniques in detecting ChatGPT-generated content. Our evaluation results demonstrate that none of the existing methods can effectively detect ChatGPT-generated content. 

**Title:** Improved Visual Fine-tuning with Natural Language Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01489

**Abstract:** Fine-tuning a pre-trained model can leverage the semantic information from large-scale pre-training data and mitigate the over-fitting problem on downstream tasks with limited training examples. While the problem of catastrophic forgetting in backbone has been extensively studied, the potential bias existing in a pre-trained model due to the corresponding pre-training task and data, attracts less attention. In this work, we investigate this problem by demonstrating that the obtained classifier after fine-tuning will be close to that induced by the pre-trained model. To reduce the bias in the classifier effectively, we introduce a reference distribution obtained from a fixed text classifier, which can help regularize the learned vision classifier. The proposed method, Text Supervised fine-tuning (TeS), is evaluated with diverse pre-trained vision models including ResNet and ViT, and text encoders including BERT and CLIP, on 11 downstream tasks. The consistent improvement with a clear margin over distinct scenarios confirms the effectiveness of our proposal. 

**Title:** GPT-4 to GPT-3.5: 'Hold My Scalpel' -- A Look at the Competency of  OpenAI's GPT on the Plastic Surgery In-Service Training Exam  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01503

**Abstract:** The Plastic Surgery In-Service Training Exam (PSITE) is an important indicator of resident proficiency and serves as a useful benchmark for evaluating OpenAI's GPT. Unlike many of the simulated tests or practice questions shown in the GPT-4 Technical Paper, the multiple-choice questions evaluated here are authentic PSITE questions. These questions offer realistic clinical vignettes that a plastic surgeon commonly encounters in practice and scores highly correlate with passing the written boards required to become a Board Certified Plastic Surgeon. Our evaluation shows dramatic improvement of GPT-4 (without vision) over GPT-3.5 with both the 2022 and 2021 exams respectively increasing the score from 8th to 88th percentile and 3rd to 99th percentile. The final results of the 2023 PSITE are set to be released on April 11, 2023, and this is an exciting moment to continue our research with a fresh exam. Our evaluation pipeline is ready for the moment that the exam is released so long as we have access via OpenAI to the GPT-4 API. With multimodal input, we may achieve superhuman performance on the 2023. 

**Title:** EPVT: Environment-aware Prompt Vision Transformer for Domain  Generalization in Skin Lesion Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01508

**Abstract:** Skin lesion recognition using deep learning has made remarkable progress, and there is an increasing need for deploying these systems in real-world scenarios. However, recent research has revealed that deep neural networks for skin lesion recognition may overly depend on disease-irrelevant image artifacts (i.e. dark corners, dense hairs), leading to poor generalization in unseen environments. To address this issue, we propose a novel domain generalization method called EPVT, which involves embedding prompts into the vision transformer to collaboratively learn knowledge from diverse domains. Concretely, EPVT leverages a set of domain prompts, each of which plays as a domain expert, to capture domain-specific knowledge; and a shared prompt for general knowledge over the entire dataset. To facilitate knowledge sharing and the interaction of different prompts, we introduce a domain prompt generator that enables low-rank multiplicative updates between domain prompts and the shared prompt. A domain mixup strategy is additionally devised to reduce the co-occurring artifacts in each domain, which allows for more flexible decision margins and mitigates the issue of incorrectly assigned domain labels. Experiments on four out-of-distribution datasets and six different biased ISIC datasets demonstrate the superior generalization ability of EPVT in skin lesion recognition across various environments. Our code and dataset will be released at https://github.com/SiyuanYan1/EPVT. 

**Title:** Text-Conditioned Sampling Framework for Text-to-Image Generation with  Masked Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01515

**Abstract:** Token-based masked generative models are gaining popularity for their fast inference time with parallel decoding. While recent token-based approaches achieve competitive performance to diffusion-based models, their generation performance is still suboptimal as they sample multiple tokens simultaneously without considering the dependence among them. We empirically investigate this problem and propose a learnable sampling model, Text-Conditioned Token Selection (TCTS), to select optimal tokens via localized supervision with text information. TCTS improves not only the image quality but also the semantic alignment of the generated images with the given texts. To further improve the image quality, we introduce a cohesive sampling strategy, Frequency Adaptive Sampling (FAS), to each group of tokens divided according to the self-attention maps. We validate the efficacy of TCTS combined with FAS with various generative tasks, demonstrating that it significantly outperforms the baselines in image-text alignment and image quality. Our text-conditioned sampling framework further reduces the original inference time by more than 50% without modifying the original generative model. 

**Title:** FedBEVT: Federated Learning Bird's Eye View Perception Transformer in  Road Traffic Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01534

**Abstract:** Bird's eye view (BEV) perception is becoming increasingly important in the field of autonomous driving. It uses multi-view camera data to learn a transformer model that directly projects the perception of the road environment onto the BEV perspective. However, training a transformer model often requires a large amount of data, and as camera data for road traffic is often private, it is typically not shared. Federated learning offers a solution that enables clients to collaborate and train models without exchanging data. In this paper, we propose FedBEVT, a federated transformer learning approach for BEV perception. We address two common data heterogeneity issues in FedBEVT: (i) diverse sensor poses and (ii) varying sensor numbers in perception systems. We present federated learning with camera-attentive personalization~(FedCaP) and adaptive multi-camera masking~(AMCM) to enhance the performance in real-world scenarios. To evaluate our method in real-world settings, we create a dataset consisting of four typical federated use cases. Our findings suggest that FedBEVT outperforms the baseline approaches in all four use cases, demonstrating the potential of our approach for improving BEV perception in autonomous driving. We will make all codes and data publicly available. 

**Title:** A Survey on Graph Diffusion Models: Generative AI in Science for  Molecule, Protein and Material  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01565

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have become a new SOTA generative modeling method in various fields, for which there are multiple survey works that provide an overall survey. With the number of articles on diffusion models increasing exponentially in the past few years, there is an increasing need for surveys of diffusion models on specific fields. In this work, we are committed to conducting a survey on the graph diffusion models. Even though our focus is to cover the progress of diffusion models in graphs, we first briefly summarize how other generative modeling methods are used for graphs. After that, we introduce the mechanism of diffusion models in various forms, which facilitates the discussion on the graph diffusion models. The applications of graph diffusion models mainly fall into the category of AI-generated content (AIGC) in science, for which we mainly focus on how graph diffusion models are utilized for generating molecules and proteins but also cover other cases, including materials design. Moreover, we discuss the issue of evaluating diffusion models in the graph domain and the existing challenges. 

**Title:** Q2ATransformer: Improving Medical VQA via an Answer Querying Decoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01611

**Abstract:** Medical Visual Question Answering (VQA) systems play a supporting role to understand clinic-relevant information carried by medical images. The questions to a medical image include two categories: close-end (such as Yes/No question) and open-end. To obtain answers, the majority of the existing medical VQA methods relies on classification approaches, while a few works attempt to use generation approaches or a mixture of the two. The classification approaches are relatively simple but perform poorly on long open-end questions. To bridge this gap, in this paper, we propose a new Transformer based framework for medical VQA (named as Q2ATransformer), which integrates the advantages of both the classification and the generation approaches and provides a unified treatment for the close-end and open-end questions. Specifically, we introduce an additional Transformer decoder with a set of learnable candidate answer embeddings to query the existence of each answer class to a given image-question pair. Through the Transformer attention, the candidate answer embeddings interact with the fused features of the image-question pair to make the decision. In this way, despite being a classification-based approach, our method provides a mechanism to interact with the answer information for prediction like the generation-based approaches. On the other hand, by classification, we mitigate the task difficulty by reducing the search space of answers. Our method achieves new state-of-the-art performance on two medical VQA benchmarks. Especially, for the open-end questions, we achieve 79.19% on VQA-RAD and 54.85% on PathVQA, with 16.09% and 41.45% absolute improvements, respectively. 

**Title:** Self-Supervised Image Denoising for Real-World Images with Context-aware  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01627

**Abstract:** In recent years, the development of deep learning has been pushing image denoising to a new level. Among them, self-supervised denoising is increasingly popular because it does not require any prior knowledge. Most of the existing self-supervised methods are based on convolutional neural networks (CNN), which are restricted by the locality of the receptive field and would cause color shifts or textures loss. In this paper, we propose a novel Denoise Transformer for real-world image denoising, which is mainly constructed with Context-aware Denoise Transformer (CADT) units and Secondary Noise Extractor (SNE) block. CADT is designed as a dual-branch structure, where the global branch uses a window-based Transformer encoder to extract the global information, while the local branch focuses on the extraction of local features with small receptive field. By incorporating CADT as basic components, we build a hierarchical network to directly learn the noise distribution information through residual learning and obtain the first stage denoised output. Then, we design SNE in low computation for secondary global noise extraction. Finally the blind spots are collected from the Denoise Transformer output and reconstructed, forming the final denoised image. Extensive experiments on the real-world SIDD benchmark achieve 50.62/0.990 for PSNR/SSIM, which is competitive with the current state-of-the-art method and only 0.17/0.001 lower. Visual comparisons on public sRGB, Raw-RGB and greyscale datasets prove that our proposed Denoise Transformer has a competitive performance, especially on blurred textures and low-light images, without using additional knowledge, e.g., noise level or noise type, regarding the underlying unknown noise. 

**Title:** Multidimensional Perceptron for Efficient and Explainable Long Text  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01638

**Abstract:** Because of the inevitable cost and complexity of transformer and pre-trained models, efficiency concerns are raised for long text classification. Meanwhile, in the highly sensitive domains, e.g., healthcare and legal long-text mining, potential model distrust, yet underrated and underexplored, may hatch vital apprehension. Existing methods generally segment the long text, encode each piece with the pre-trained model, and use attention or RNNs to obtain long text representation for classification. In this work, we propose a simple but effective model, Segment-aWare multIdimensional PErceptron (SWIPE), to replace attention/RNNs in the above framework. Unlike prior efforts, SWIPE can effectively learn the label of the entire text with supervised training, while perceive the labels of the segments and estimate their contributions to the long-text labeling in an unsupervised manner. As a general classifier, SWIPE can endorse different encoders, and it outperforms SOTA models in terms of classification accuracy and model efficiency. It is noteworthy that SWIPE achieves superior interpretability to transparentize long text classification results. 

**Title:** Can BERT eat RuCoLA? Topological Data Analysis to Explain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01680

**Abstract:** This paper investigates how Transformer language models (LMs) fine-tuned for acceptability classification capture linguistic features. Our approach uses the best practices of topological data analysis (TDA) in NLP: we construct directed attention graphs from attention matrices, derive topological features from them, and feed them to linear classifiers. We introduce two novel features, chordality, and the matching number, and show that TDA-based classifiers outperform fine-tuning baselines. We experiment with two datasets, CoLA and RuCoLA in English and Russian, typologically different languages. On top of that, we propose several black-box introspection techniques aimed at detecting changes in the attention mode of the LMs during fine-tuning, defining the LM's prediction confidences, and associating individual heads with fine-grained grammar phenomena. Our results contribute to understanding the behavior of monolingual LMs in the acceptability classification task, provide insights into the functional roles of attention heads, and highlight the advantages of TDA-based approaches for analyzing LMs. We release the code and the experimental results for further uptake. 

**Title:** Towards Open-Vocabulary Video Instance Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01715

**Abstract:** Video Instance Segmentation(VIS) aims at segmenting and categorizing objects in videos from a closed set of training categories, lacking the generalization ability to handle novel categories in real-world videos. To address this limitation, we make the following three contributions. First, we introduce the novel task of Open-Vocabulary Video Instance Segmentation, which aims to simultaneously segment, track, and classify objects in videos from open-set categories, including novel categories unseen during training. Second, to benchmark Open-Vocabulary VIS, we collect a Large-Vocabulary Video Instance Segmentation dataset(LV-VIS), that contains well-annotated objects from 1,212 diverse categories, significantly surpassing the category size of existing datasets by more than one order of magnitude. Third, we propose an efficient Memory-Induced Vision-Language Transformer, MindVLT, to first achieve Open-Vocabulary VIS in an end-to-end manner with near real-time inference speed. Extensive experiments on LV-VIS and four existing VIS datasets demonstrate the strong zero-shot generalization ability of MindVLT on novel categories. We will release the dataset and code to facilitate future endeavors. 

**Title:** Is ChatGPT a Highly Fluent Grammatical Error Correction System? A  Comprehensive Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01746

**Abstract:** ChatGPT, a large-scale language model based on the advanced GPT-3.5 architecture, has shown remarkable potential in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. However, there is currently a dearth of comprehensive study exploring its potential in the area of Grammatical Error Correction (GEC). To showcase its capabilities in GEC, we design zero-shot chain-of-thought (CoT) and few-shot CoT settings using in-context learning for ChatGPT. Our evaluation involves assessing ChatGPT's performance on five official test sets in three different languages, along with three document-level GEC test sets in English. Our experimental results and human evaluations demonstrate that ChatGPT has excellent error detection capabilities and can freely correct errors to make the corrected sentences very fluent, possibly due to its over-correction tendencies and not adhering to the principle of minimal edits. Additionally, its performance in non-English and low-resource settings highlights its potential in multilingual GEC tasks. However, further analysis of various types of errors at the document-level has shown that ChatGPT cannot effectively correct agreement, coreference, tense errors across sentences, and cross-sentence boundary errors. 

**Title:** Using Language Models For Knowledge Acquisition in Natural Language  Reasoning Problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01771

**Abstract:** For a natural language problem that requires some non-trivial reasoning to solve, there are at least two ways to do it using a large language model (LLM). One is to ask it to solve it directly. The other is to use it to extract the facts from the problem text and then use a theorem prover to solve it. In this note, we compare the two methods using ChatGPT and GPT4 on a series of logic word puzzles, and conclude that the latter is the right approach. 

**Title:** Summary of ChatGPT/GPT-4 Research and Perspective Towards the Future of  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01852

**Abstract:** This paper presents a comprehensive survey of ChatGPT and GPT-4, state-of-the-art large language models (LLM) from the GPT series, and their prospective applications across diverse domains. Indeed, key innovations such as large-scale pre-training that captures knowledge across the entire world wide web, instruction fine-tuning and Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) have played significant roles in enhancing LLMs' adaptability and performance. We performed an in-depth analysis of 194 relevant papers on arXiv, encompassing trend analysis, word cloud representation, and distribution analysis across various application domains. The findings reveal a significant and increasing interest in ChatGPT/GPT-4 research, predominantly centered on direct natural language processing applications, while also demonstrating considerable potential in areas ranging from education and history to mathematics, medicine, and physics. This study endeavors to furnish insights into ChatGPT's capabilities, potential implications, ethical concerns, and offer direction for future advancements in this field. 

**Title:** Trace and Pace: Controllable Pedestrian Animation via Guided Trajectory  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01893

**Abstract:** We introduce a method for generating realistic pedestrian trajectories and full-body animations that can be controlled to meet user-defined goals. We draw on recent advances in guided diffusion modeling to achieve test-time controllability of trajectories, which is normally only associated with rule-based systems. Our guided diffusion model allows users to constrain trajectories through target waypoints, speed, and specified social groups while accounting for the surrounding environment context. This trajectory diffusion model is integrated with a novel physics-based humanoid controller to form a closed-loop, full-body pedestrian animation system capable of placing large crowds in a simulated environment with varying terrains. We further propose utilizing the value function learned during RL training of the animation controller to guide diffusion to produce trajectories better suited for particular scenarios such as collision avoidance and traversing uneven terrain. Video results are available on the project page at https://nv-tlabs.github.io/trace-pace . 

**Title:** San-BERT: Extractive Summarization for Sanskrit Documents using BERT and  it's variants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01894

**Abstract:** In this work, we develop language models for the Sanskrit language, namely Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) and its variants: A Lite BERT (ALBERT), and Robustly Optimized BERT (RoBERTa) using Devanagari Sanskrit text corpus. Then we extracted the features for the given text from these models. We applied the dimensional reduction and clustering techniques on the features to generate an extractive summary for a given Sanskrit document. Along with the extractive text summarization techniques, we have also created and released a Sanskrit Devanagari text corpus publicly. 

**Title:** PODIA-3D: Domain Adaptation of 3D Generative Model Across Large Domain  Gap Using Pose-Preserved Text-to-Image Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01900

**Abstract:** Recently, significant advancements have been made in 3D generative models, however training these models across diverse domains is challenging and requires an huge amount of training data and knowledge of pose distribution. Text-guided domain adaptation methods have allowed the generator to be adapted to the target domains using text prompts, thereby obviating the need for assembling numerous data. Recently, DATID-3D presents impressive quality of samples in text-guided domain, preserving diversity in text by leveraging text-to-image diffusion. However, adapting 3D generators to domains with significant domain gaps from the source domain still remains challenging due to issues in current text-to-image diffusion models as following: 1) shape-pose trade-off in diffusion-based translation, 2) pose bias, and 3) instance bias in the target domain, resulting in inferior 3D shapes, low text-image correspondence, and low intra-domain diversity in the generated samples. To address these issues, we propose a novel pipeline called PODIA-3D, which uses pose-preserved text-to-image diffusion-based domain adaptation for 3D generative models. We construct a pose-preserved text-to-image diffusion model that allows the use of extremely high-level noise for significant domain changes. We also propose specialized-to-general sampling strategies to improve the details of the generated samples. Moreover, to overcome the instance bias, we introduce a text-guided debiasing method that improves intra-domain diversity. Consequently, our method successfully adapts 3D generators across significant domain gaps. Our qualitative results and user study demonstrates that our approach outperforms existing 3D text-guided domain adaptation methods in terms of text-image correspondence, realism, diversity of rendered images, and sense of depth of 3D shapes in the generated samples 

**Title:** REFINER: Reasoning Feedback on Intermediate Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01904

**Abstract:** Language models (LMs) have recently shown remarkable performance on reasoning tasks by explicitly generating intermediate inferences, e.g., chain-of-thought prompting. However, these intermediate inference steps may be inappropriate deductions from the initial context and lead to incorrect final predictions. Here we introduce REFINER, a framework for finetuning LMs to explicitly generate intermediate reasoning steps while interacting with a critic model that provides automated feedback on the reasoning. Specifically, the critic provides structured feedback that the reasoning LM uses to iteratively improve its intermediate arguments. Empirical evaluations of REFINER on three diverse reasoning tasks show significant improvements over baseline LMs of comparable scale. Furthermore, when using GPT3.5 as the reasoner, the trained critic significantly improves reasoning without finetuning the reasoner. Finally, our critic model is trained without expensive human-in-the-loop data but can be substituted with humans at inference time. 

**Title:** Strong Baselines for Parameter Efficient Few-Shot Fine-tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01917

**Abstract:** Few-shot classification (FSC) entails learning novel classes given only a few examples per class after a pre-training (or meta-training) phase on a set of base classes. Recent works have shown that simply fine-tuning a pre-trained Vision Transformer (ViT) on new test classes is a strong approach for FSC. Fine-tuning ViTs, however, is expensive in time, compute and storage. This has motivated the design of parameter efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods which fine-tune only a fraction of the Transformer's parameters. While these methods have shown promise, inconsistencies in experimental conditions make it difficult to disentangle their advantage from other experimental factors including the feature extractor architecture, pre-trained initialization and fine-tuning algorithm, amongst others. In our paper, we conduct a large-scale, experimentally consistent, empirical analysis to study PEFTs for few-shot image classification. Through a battery of over 1.8k controlled experiments on large-scale few-shot benchmarks including Meta-Dataset (MD) and ORBIT, we uncover novel insights on PEFTs that cast light on their efficacy in fine-tuning ViTs for few-shot classification. Through our controlled empirical study, we have two main findings: (i) Fine-tuning just the LayerNorm parameters (which we call LN-Tune) during few-shot adaptation is an extremely strong baseline across ViTs pre-trained with both self-supervised and supervised objectives, (ii) For self-supervised ViTs, we find that simply learning a set of scaling parameters for each attention matrix (which we call AttnScale) along with a domain-residual adapter (DRA) module leads to state-of-the-art performance (while being $\sim\!$ 9$\times$ more parameter-efficient) on MD. Our extensive empirical findings set strong baselines and call for rethinking the current design of PEFT methods for FSC. 

**Title:** viz2viz: Prompt-driven stylized visualization generation using a  diffusion model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01919

**Abstract:** Creating stylized visualization requires going beyond the limited, abstract, geometric marks produced by most tools. Rather, the designer builds stylized idioms where the marks are both transformed (e.g., photographs of candles instead of bars) and also synthesized into a 'scene' that pushes the boundaries of traditional visualizations. To support this, we introduce viz2viz, a system for transforming visualizations with a textual prompt to a stylized form. The system follows a high-level recipe that leverages various generative methods to produce new visualizations that retain the properties of the original dataset. While the base recipe is consistent across many visualization types, we demonstrate how it can be specifically adapted to the creation of different visualization types (bar charts, area charts, pie charts, and network visualizations). Our approach introduces techniques for using different prompts for different marks (i.e., each bar can be something completely different) while still retaining image "coherence." We conclude with an evaluation of the approach and discussion on extensions and limitations. 

**Title:** LLM-Adapters: An Adapter Family for Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning of  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01933

**Abstract:** The success of large language models (LLMs), like GPT-3 and ChatGPT, has led to the development of numerous cost-effective and accessible alternatives that are created by fine-tuning open-access LLMs with task-specific data (e.g., ChatDoctor) or instruction data (e.g., Alpaca). Among the various fine-tuning methods, adapter-based parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) is undoubtedly one of the most attractive topics, as it only requires fine-tuning a few external parameters instead of the entire LLMs while achieving comparable or even better performance. To enable further research on PEFT methods of LLMs, this paper presents LLM-Adapters, an easy-to-use framework that integrates various adapters into LLMs and can execute these adapter-based PEFT methods of LLMs for different tasks. The framework includes state-of-the-art open-access LLMs such as LLaMA, BLOOM, OPT, and GPT-J, as well as widely used adapters such as Series adapter, Parallel adapter, and LoRA. The framework is designed to be research-friendly, efficient, modular, and extendable, allowing the integration of new adapters and the evaluation of them with new and larger-scale LLMs. Furthermore, to evaluate the effectiveness of adapters in LLMs-Adapters, we conduct experiments on six math reasoning datasets. The results demonstrate that using adapter-based PEFT in smaller-scale LLMs (7B) with few extra trainable parameters yields comparable, and in some cases superior, performance to that of powerful LLMs (175B) in zero-shot inference on simple math reasoning datasets. Overall, we provide a promising framework for fine-tuning large LLMs on downstream tasks. We believe the proposed LLMs-Adapters will advance adapter-based PEFT research, facilitate the deployment of research pipelines, and enable practical applications to real-world systems. 

**Title:** Network Visualization of ChatGPT Research: a study based on term and  keyword co-occurrence network analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01948

**Abstract:** The main objective of this paper is to identify the major research areas of ChatGPT through term and keyword co-occurrence network mapping techniques. For conducting the present study, total of 577 publications were retrieved from the Lens database for the network visualization. The findings of the study showed that chatgpt occurrence in maximum number of times followed by its related terms such as artificial intelligence, large language model, gpt, study etc. This study will be helpful to library and information science as well as computer or information technology professionals. 

**Title:** Dialogue-Contextualized Re-ranking for Medical History-Taking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01974

**Abstract:** AI-driven medical history-taking is an important component in symptom checking, automated patient intake, triage, and other AI virtual care applications. As history-taking is extremely varied, machine learning models require a significant amount of data to train. To overcome this challenge, existing systems are developed using indirect data or expert knowledge. This leads to a training-inference gap as models are trained on different kinds of data than what they observe at inference time. In this work, we present a two-stage re-ranking approach that helps close the training-inference gap by re-ranking the first-stage question candidates using a dialogue-contextualized model. For this, we propose a new model, global re-ranker, which cross-encodes the dialogue with all questions simultaneously, and compare it with several existing neural baselines. We test both transformer and S4-based language model backbones. We find that relative to the expert system, the best performance is achieved by our proposed global re-ranker with a transformer backbone, resulting in a 30% higher normalized discount cumulative gain (nDCG) and a 77% higher mean average precision (mAP). 

**Title:** MonoHuman: Animatable Human Neural Field from Monocular Video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02001

**Abstract:** Animating virtual avatars with free-view control is crucial for various applications like virtual reality and digital entertainment. Previous studies have attempted to utilize the representation power of the neural radiance field (NeRF) to reconstruct the human body from monocular videos. Recent works propose to graft a deformation network into the NeRF to further model the dynamics of the human neural field for animating vivid human motions. However, such pipelines either rely on pose-dependent representations or fall short of motion coherency due to frame-independent optimization, making it difficult to generalize to unseen pose sequences realistically. In this paper, we propose a novel framework MonoHuman, which robustly renders view-consistent and high-fidelity avatars under arbitrary novel poses. Our key insight is to model the deformation field with bi-directional constraints and explicitly leverage the off-the-peg keyframe information to reason the feature correlations for coherent results. Specifically, we first propose a Shared Bidirectional Deformation module, which creates a pose-independent generalizable deformation field by disentangling backward and forward deformation correspondences into shared skeletal motion weight and separate non-rigid motions. Then, we devise a Forward Correspondence Search module, which queries the correspondence feature of keyframes to guide the rendering network. The rendered results are thus multi-view consistent with high fidelity, even under challenging novel pose settings. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed MonoHuman over state-of-the-art methods. 

**Title:** DoE2Vec: Deep-learning Based Features for Exploratory Landscape Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01219

**Abstract:** We propose DoE2Vec, a variational autoencoder (VAE)-based methodology to learn optimization landscape characteristics for downstream meta-learning tasks, e.g., automated selection of optimization algorithms. Principally, using large training data sets generated with a random function generator, DoE2Vec self-learns an informative latent representation for any design of experiments (DoE). Unlike the classical exploratory landscape analysis (ELA) method, our approach does not require any feature engineering and is easily applicable for high dimensional search spaces. For validation, we inspect the quality of latent reconstructions and analyze the latent representations using different experiments. The latent representations not only show promising potentials in identifying similar (cheap-to-evaluate) surrogate functions, but also can significantly boost performances when being used complementary to the classical ELA features in classification tasks. 

**Title:** U-Netmer: U-Net meets Transformer for medical image segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01401

**Abstract:** The combination of the U-Net based deep learning models and Transformer is a new trend for medical image segmentation. U-Net can extract the detailed local semantic and texture information and Transformer can learn the long-rang dependencies among pixels in the input image. However, directly adapting the Transformer for segmentation has ``token-flatten" problem (flattens the local patches into 1D tokens which losses the interaction among pixels within local patches) and ``scale-sensitivity" problem (uses a fixed scale to split the input image into local patches). Compared to directly combining U-Net and Transformer, we propose a new global-local fashion combination of U-Net and Transformer, named U-Netmer, to solve the two problems. The proposed U-Netmer splits an input image into local patches. The global-context information among local patches is learnt by the self-attention mechanism in Transformer and U-Net segments each local patch instead of flattening into tokens to solve the `token-flatten" problem. The U-Netmer can segment the input image with different patch sizes with the identical structure and the same parameter. Thus, the U-Netmer can be trained with different patch sizes to solve the ``scale-sensitivity" problem. We conduct extensive experiments in 7 public datasets on 7 organs (brain, heart, breast, lung, polyp, pancreas and prostate) and 4 imaging modalities (MRI, CT, ultrasound, and endoscopy) to show that the proposed U-Netmer can be generally applied to improve accuracy of medical image segmentation. These experimental results show that U-Netmer provides state-of-the-art performance compared to baselines and other models. In addition, the discrepancy among the outputs of U-Netmer with different scales is linearly correlated to the segmentation accuracy which can be considered as a confidence score to rank test images by difficulty without ground-truth. 

**Title:** Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models to Predict the Density of  Molecular Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01670

**Abstract:** We introduce the state-of-the-art deep learning Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model (DDPM) as a method to infer the volume or number density of giant molecular clouds (GMCs) from projected mass surface density maps. We adopt magnetohydrodynamic simulations with different global magnetic field strengths and large-scale dynamics, i.e., noncolliding and colliding GMCs. We train a diffusion model on both mass surface density maps and their corresponding mass-weighted number density maps from different viewing angles for all the simulations. We compare the diffusion model performance with a more traditional empirical two-component and three-component power-law fitting method and with a more traditional neural network machine learning approach (CASI-2D). We conclude that the diffusion model achieves an order of magnitude improvement on the accuracy of predicting number density compared to that by other methods. We apply the diffusion method to some example astronomical column density maps of Taurus and the Infrared Dark Clouds (IRDCs) G28.37+0.07 and G35.39-0.33 to produce maps of their mean volume densities. 

**Title:** Adaptive learning of effective dynamics: Adaptive real-time, online  modeling for complex systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01732

**Abstract:** Predictive simulations are essential for applications ranging from weather forecasting to material design. The veracity of these simulations hinges on their capacity to capture the effective system dynamics. Massively parallel simulations predict the systems dynamics by resolving all spatiotemporal scales, often at a cost that prevents experimentation. On the other hand, reduced order models are fast but often limited by the linearization of the system dynamics and the adopted heuristic closures. We propose a novel systematic framework that bridges large scale simulations and reduced order models to extract and forecast adaptively the effective dynamics (AdaLED) of multiscale systems. AdaLED employs an autoencoder to identify reduced-order representations of the system dynamics and an ensemble of probabilistic recurrent neural networks (RNNs) as the latent time-stepper. The framework alternates between the computational solver and the surrogate, accelerating learned dynamics while leaving yet-to-be-learned dynamics regimes to the original solver. AdaLED continuously adapts the surrogate to the new dynamics through online training. The transitions between the surrogate and the computational solver are determined by monitoring the prediction accuracy and uncertainty of the surrogate. The effectiveness of AdaLED is demonstrated on three different systems - a Van der Pol oscillator, a 2D reaction-diffusion equation, and a 2D Navier-Stokes flow past a cylinder for varying Reynolds numbers (400 up to 1200), showcasing its ability to learn effective dynamics online, detect unseen dynamics regimes, and provide net speed-ups. To the best of our knowledge, AdaLED is the first framework that couples a surrogate model with a computational solver to achieve online adaptive learning of effective dynamics. It constitutes a potent tool for applications requiring many expensive simulations. 

**Title:** CoreDiff: Contextual Error-Modulated Generalized Diffusion Model for  Low-Dose CT Denoising and Generalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01814

**Abstract:** Low-dose computed tomography (CT) images suffer from noise and artifacts due to photon starvation and electronic noise. Recently, some works have attempted to use diffusion models to address the over-smoothness and training instability encountered by previous deep-learning-based denoising models. However, diffusion models suffer from long inference times due to the large number of sampling steps involved. Very recently, cold diffusion model generalizes classical diffusion models and has greater flexibility. Inspired by the cold diffusion, this paper presents a novel COntextual eRror-modulated gEneralized Diffusion model for low-dose CT (LDCT) denoising, termed CoreDiff. First, CoreDiff utilizes LDCT images to displace the random Gaussian noise and employs a novel mean-preserving degradation operator to mimic the physical process of CT degradation, significantly reducing sampling steps thanks to the informative LDCT images as the starting point of the sampling process. Second, to alleviate the error accumulation problem caused by the imperfect restoration operator in the sampling process, we propose a novel ContextuaL Error-modulAted Restoration Network (CLEAR-Net), which can leverage contextual information to constrain the sampling process from structural distortion and modulate time step embedding features for better alignment with the input at the next time step. Third, to rapidly generalize to a new, unseen dose level with as few resources as possible, we devise a one-shot learning framework to make CoreDiff generalize faster and better using only a single LDCT image (un)paired with NDCT. Extensive experimental results on two datasets demonstrate that our CoreDiff outperforms competing methods in denoising and generalization performance, with a clinically acceptable inference time. 

**Title:** A Practical Framework for Unsupervised Structure Preservation Medical  Image Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01864

**Abstract:** Medical images are extremely valuable for supporting medical diagnoses. However, in practice, low-quality (LQ) medical images, such as images that are hazy/blurry, have uneven illumination, or are out of focus, among others, are often obtained during data acquisition. This leads to difficulties in the screening and diagnosis of medical diseases. Several generative adversarial networks (GAN)-based image enhancement methods have been proposed and have shown promising results. However, there is a quality-originality trade-off among these methods in the sense that they produce visually pleasing results but lose the ability to preserve originality, especially the structural inputs. Moreover, to our knowledge, there is no objective metric in evaluating the structure preservation of medical image enhancement methods in unsupervised settings due to the unavailability of paired ground-truth data. In this study, we propose a framework for practical unsupervised medical image enhancement that includes (1) a non-reference objective evaluation of structure preservation for medical image enhancement tasks called Laplacian structural similarity index measure (LaSSIM), which is based on SSIM and the Laplacian pyramid, and (2) a novel unsupervised GAN-based method called Laplacian medical image enhancement (LaMEGAN) to support the improvement of both originality and quality from LQ images. The LaSSIM metric does not require clean reference images and has been shown to be superior to SSIM in capturing image structural changes under image degradations, such as strong blurring on different datasets. The experiments demonstrated that our LaMEGAN achieves a satisfactory balance between quality and originality, with robust structure preservation performance while generating compelling visual results with very high image quality scores. The code will be made available at https://github.com/AillisInc/USPMIE. 

**Title:** Evaluating Large Language Models on a Highly-specialized Topic,  Radiation Oncology Physics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01938

**Abstract:** We present the first study to investigate Large Language Models (LLMs) in answering radiation oncology physics questions. Because popular exams like AP Physics, LSAT, and GRE have large test-taker populations and ample test preparation resources in circulation, they may not allow for accurately assessing the true potential of LLMs. This paper proposes evaluating LLMs on a highly-specialized topic, radiation oncology physics, which may be more pertinent to scientific and medical communities in addition to being a valuable benchmark of LLMs. We developed an exam consisting of 100 radiation oncology physics questions based on our expertise at Mayo Clinic. Four LLMs, ChatGPT (GPT-3.5), ChatGPT (GPT-4), Bard (LaMDA), and BLOOMZ, were evaluated against medical physicists and non-experts. ChatGPT (GPT-4) outperformed all other LLMs as well as medical physicists, on average. The performance of ChatGPT (GPT-4) was further improved when prompted to explain first, then answer. ChatGPT (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) showed a high level of consistency in its answer choices across a number of trials, whether correct or incorrect, a characteristic that was not observed in the human test groups. In evaluating ChatGPTs (GPT-4) deductive reasoning ability using a novel approach (substituting the correct answer with "None of the above choices is the correct answer."), ChatGPT (GPT-4) demonstrated surprising accuracy, suggesting the potential presence of an emergent ability. Finally, although ChatGPT (GPT-4) performed well overall, its intrinsic properties did not allow for further improvement when scoring based on a majority vote across trials. In contrast, a team of medical physicists were able to greatly outperform ChatGPT (GPT-4) using a majority vote. This study suggests a great potential for LLMs to work alongside radiation oncology experts as highly knowledgeable assistants. 

**Title:** Cross-modulated Few-shot Image Generation for Colorectal Tissue  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.01992

**Abstract:** In this work, we propose a few-shot colorectal tissue image generation method for addressing the scarcity of histopathological training data for rare cancer tissues. Our few-shot generation method, named XM-GAN, takes one base and a pair of reference tissue images as input and generates high-quality yet diverse images. Within our XM-GAN, a novel controllable fusion block densely aggregates local regions of reference images based on their similarity to those in the base image, resulting in locally consistent features. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to investigate few-shot generation in colorectal tissue images. We evaluate our few-shot colorectral tissue image generation by performing extensive qualitative, quantitative and subject specialist (pathologist) based evaluations. Specifically, in specialist-based evaluation, pathologists could differentiate between our XM-GAN generated tissue images and real images only 55% time. Moreover, we utilize these generated images as data augmentation to address the few-shot tissue image classification task, achieving a gain of 4.4% in terms of mean accuracy over the vanilla few-shot classifier. Code: \url{https://github.com/VIROBO-15/XM-GAN} 

