**Title:** How well do Large Language Models perform in Arithmetic tasks?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02015

**Abstract:** Large language models have emerged abilities including chain-of-thought to answer math word problems step by step. Solving math word problems not only requires abilities to disassemble problems via chain-of-thought but also needs to calculate arithmetic expressions correctly for each step. To the best of our knowledge, there is no work to focus on evaluating the arithmetic ability of large language models. In this work, we propose an arithmetic dataset MATH 401 to test the latest large language models including GPT-4, ChatGPT, InstrctGPT, Galactica, and LLaMA with various arithmetic expressions and provide a detailed analysis of the ability of large language models. MATH 401 and evaluation codes are released at \url{https://github.com/GanjinZero/math401-llm}. 

**Title:** The Multimodal And Modular Ai Chef: Complex Recipe Generation From  Imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02016

**Abstract:** The AI community has embraced multi-sensory or multi-modal approaches to advance this generation of AI models to resemble expected intelligent understanding. Combining language and imagery represents a familiar method for specific tasks like image captioning or generation from descriptions. This paper compares these monolithic approaches to a lightweight and specialized method based on employing image models to label objects, then serially submitting this resulting object list to a large language model (LLM). This use of multiple Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) enables better than 95% mean average precision for correct object lists, which serve as input to the latest Open AI text generator (GPT-4). To demonstrate the API as a modular alternative, we solve the problem of a user taking a picture of ingredients available in a refrigerator, then generating novel recipe cards tailored to complex constraints on cost, preparation time, dietary restrictions, portion sizes, and multiple meal plans. The research concludes that monolithic multimodal models currently lack the coherent memory to maintain context and format for this task and that until recently, the language models like GPT-2/3 struggled to format similar problems without degenerating into repetitive or non-sensical combinations of ingredients. For the first time, an AI chef or cook seems not only possible but offers some enhanced capabilities to augment human recipe libraries in pragmatic ways. The work generates a 100-page recipe book featuring the thirty top ingredients using over 2000 refrigerator images as initializing lists. 

**Title:** Unlocking the Potential of ChatGPT: A Comprehensive Exploration of its  Applications, Advantages, Limitations, and Future Directions in Natural  Language Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02017

**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a powerful tool in the field of artificial intelligence that has been widely used in various applications. ChatGPT has been applied successfully in chatbots, content generation, language translation, personalized recommendations, and medical diagnosis and treatment. Its versatility and accuracy make it a powerful tool for natural language processing (NLP). However, there are also limitations to ChatGPT, such as its tendency to produce biased responses and its potential to perpetuate harmful language patterns. This article provides a comprehensive overview of ChatGPT, its applications, advantages, and limitations. Additionally, the paper emphasizes the importance of ethical considerations when using this robust tool in real-world scenarios. Finally, This paper contributes to ongoing discussions surrounding artificial intelligence and its impact on vision and NLP domains by providing insights into prompt engineering techniques. 

**Title:** Multi-Class Explainable Unlearning for Image Classification via Weight  Filtering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02049

**Abstract:** Machine Unlearning has recently been emerging as a paradigm for selectively removing the impact of training datapoints from a network. While existing approaches have focused on unlearning either a small subset of the training data or a single class, in this paper we take a different path and devise a framework that can unlearn all classes of an image classification network in a single untraining round. Our proposed technique learns to modulate the inner components of an image classification network through memory matrices so that, after training, the same network can selectively exhibit an unlearning behavior over any of the classes. By discovering weights which are specific to each of the classes, our approach also recovers a representation of the classes which is explainable by-design. We test the proposed framework, which we name Weight Filtering network (WF-Net), on small-scale and medium-scale image classification datasets, with both CNN and Transformer-based backbones. Our work provides interesting insights in the development of explainable solutions for unlearning and could be easily extended to other vision tasks. 

**Title:** Multimodal Garment Designer: Human-Centric Latent Diffusion Models for  Fashion Image Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02051

**Abstract:** Fashion illustration is used by designers to communicate their vision and to bring the design idea from conceptualization to realization, showing how clothes interact with the human body. In this context, computer vision can thus be used to improve the fashion design process. Differently from previous works that mainly focused on the virtual try-on of garments, we propose the task of multimodal-conditioned fashion image editing, guiding the generation of human-centric fashion images by following multimodal prompts, such as text, human body poses, and garment sketches. We tackle this problem by proposing a new architecture based on latent diffusion models, an approach that has not been used before in the fashion domain. Given the lack of existing datasets suitable for the task, we also extend two existing fashion datasets, namely Dress Code and VITON-HD, with multimodal annotations collected in a semi-automatic manner. Experimental results on these new datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposal, both in terms of realism and coherence with the given multimodal inputs. Source code and collected multimodal annotations will be publicly released at: https://github.com/aimagelab/multimodal-garment-designer. 

**Title:** Geotechnical Parrot Tales (GPT): Overcoming GPT hallucinations with  prompt engineering for geotechnical applications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02138

**Abstract:** The widespread adoption of large language models (LLMs), such as OpenAI's ChatGPT, could revolutionized various industries, including geotechnical engineering. However, GPT models can sometimes generate plausible-sounding but false outputs, leading to hallucinations. In this article, we discuss the importance of prompt engineering in mitigating these risks and harnessing the full potential of GPT for geotechnical applications. We explore the challenges and pitfalls associated with LLMs and highlight the role of context in ensuring accurate and valuable responses. Furthermore, we examine the development of context-specific search engines and the potential of LLMs to become a natural interface for complex tasks, such as data analysis and design. We also develop a unified interface using natural language to handle complex geotechnical engineering tasks and data analysis. By integrating GPT into geotechnical engineering workflows, professionals can streamline their work and develop sustainable and resilient infrastructure systems for the future. 

**Title:** ConvFormer: Parameter Reduction in Transformer Models for 3D Human Pose  Estimation by Leveraging Dynamic Multi-Headed Convolutional Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02147

**Abstract:** Recently, fully-transformer architectures have replaced the defacto convolutional architecture for the 3D human pose estimation task. In this paper we propose \textbf{\textit{ConvFormer}}, a novel convolutional transformer that leverages a new \textbf{\textit{dynamic multi-headed convolutional self-attention}} mechanism for monocular 3D human pose estimation. We designed a spatial and temporal convolutional transformer to comprehensively model human joint relations within individual frames and globally across the motion sequence. Moreover, we introduce a novel notion of \textbf{\textit{temporal joints profile}} for our temporal ConvFormer that fuses complete temporal information immediately for a local neighborhood of joint features. We have quantitatively and qualitatively validated our method on three common benchmark datasets: Human3.6M, MPI-INF-3DHP, and HumanEva. Extensive experiments have been conducted to identify the optimal hyper-parameter set. These experiments demonstrated that we achieved a \textbf{significant parameter reduction relative to prior transformer models} while attaining State-of-the-Art (SOTA) or near SOTA on all three datasets. Additionally, we achieved SOTA for Protocol III on H36M for both GT and CPN detection inputs. Finally, we obtained SOTA on all three metrics for the MPI-INF-3DHP dataset and for all three subjects on HumanEva under Protocol II. 

**Title:** ChartReader: A Unified Framework for Chart Derendering and Comprehension  without Heuristic Rules  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02173

**Abstract:** Charts are a powerful tool for visually conveying complex data, but their comprehension poses a challenge due to the diverse chart types and intricate components. Existing chart comprehension methods suffer from either heuristic rules or an over-reliance on OCR systems, resulting in suboptimal performance. To address these issues, we present ChartReader, a unified framework that seamlessly integrates chart derendering and comprehension tasks. Our approach includes a transformer-based chart component detection module and an extended pre-trained vision-language model for chart-to-X tasks. By learning the rules of charts automatically from annotated datasets, our approach eliminates the need for manual rule-making, reducing effort and enhancing accuracy.~We also introduce a data variable replacement technique and extend the input and position embeddings of the pre-trained model for cross-task training. We evaluate ChartReader on Chart-to-Table, ChartQA, and Chart-to-Text tasks, demonstrating its superiority over existing methods. Our proposed framework can significantly reduce the manual effort involved in chart analysis, providing a step towards a universal chart understanding model. Moreover, our approach offers opportunities for plug-and-play integration with mainstream LLMs such as T5 and TaPas, extending their capability to chart comprehension tasks. The code is available at https://github.com/zhiqic/ChartReader. 

**Title:** Unleashing the Power of ChatGPT for Translation: An Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02182

**Abstract:** The recently released ChatGPT has demonstrated surprising abilities in natural language understanding and natural language generation. Machine translation is an important and extensively studied task in the field of natural language processing, which heavily relies on the abilities of language understanding and generation. Thus, in this paper, we explore how to assist machine translation with ChatGPT. We adopt several translation prompts on a wide range of translations. Our experimental results show that ChatGPT with designed translation prompts can achieve comparable or better performance over professional translation systems for high-resource language translations but lags behind significantly on low-resource translations. We further evaluate the translation quality using multiple references, and ChatGPT achieves superior performance compared to the professional systems. We also conduct experiments on domain-specific translations, the final results show that ChatGPT is able to comprehend the provided domain keyword and adjust accordingly to output proper translations. At last, we perform few-shot prompts that show consistent improvement across different base prompts. Our work provides empirical evidence that ChatGPT still has great potential in translations. 

**Title:** Training Strategies for Vision Transformers for Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02186

**Abstract:** Vision-based Transformer have shown huge application in the perception module of autonomous driving in terms of predicting accurate 3D bounding boxes, owing to their strong capability in modeling long-range dependencies between the visual features. However Transformers, initially designed for language models, have mostly focused on the performance accuracy, and not so much on the inference-time budget. For a safety critical system like autonomous driving, real-time inference at the on-board compute is an absolute necessity. This keeps our object detection algorithm under a very tight run-time budget. In this paper, we evaluated a variety of strategies to optimize on the inference-time of vision transformers based object detection methods keeping a close-watch on any performance variations. Our chosen metric for these strategies is accuracy-runtime joint optimization. Moreover, for actual inference-time analysis we profile our strategies with float32 and float16 precision with TensorRT module. This is the most common format used by the industry for deployment of their Machine Learning networks on the edge devices. We showed that our strategies are able to improve inference-time by 63% at the cost of performance drop of mere 3% for our problem-statement defined in evaluation section. These strategies brings down Vision Transformers detectors inference-time even less than traditional single-image based CNN detectors like FCOS. We recommend practitioners use these techniques to deploy Transformers based hefty multi-view networks on a budge-constrained robotic platform. 

**Title:** A Diffusion-based Method for Multi-turn Compositional Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02192

**Abstract:** Multi-turn compositional image generation (M-CIG) is a challenging task that aims to iteratively manipulate a reference image given a modification text. While most of the existing methods for M-CIG are based on generative adversarial networks (GANs), recent advances in image generation have demonstrated the superiority of diffusion models over GANs. In this paper, we propose a diffusion-based method for M-CIG named conditional denoising diffusion with image compositional matching (CDD-ICM). We leverage CLIP as the backbone of image and text encoders, and incorporate a gated fusion mechanism, originally proposed for question answering, to compositionally fuse the reference image and the modification text at each turn of M-CIG. We introduce a conditioning scheme to generate the target image based on the fusion results. To prioritize the semantic quality of the generated target image, we learn an auxiliary image compositional match (ICM) objective, along with the conditional denoising diffusion (CDD) objective in a multi-task learning framework. Additionally, we also perform ICM guidance and classifier-free guidance to improve performance. Experimental results show that CDD-ICM achieves state-of-the-art results on two benchmark datasets for M-CIG, i.e., CoDraw and i-CLEVR. 

**Title:** Algorithm and Hardness for Dynamic Attention Maintenance in Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02207

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have made fundamental changes in human life. The attention scheme is one of the key components over all the LLMs, such as BERT, GPT-1, Transformers, GPT-2, 3, 3.5 and 4. Inspired by previous theoretical study of static version of the attention multiplication problem [Zandieh, Han, Daliri, and Karbasi arXiv 2023, Alman and Song arXiv 2023]. In this work, we formally define a dynamic version of attention matrix multiplication problem. There are matrices $Q,K, V \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times d}$, they represent query, key and value in LLMs. In each iteration we update one entry in $K$ or $V$. In the query stage, we receive $(i,j) \in [n] \times [d]$ as input, and want to answer $(D^{-1} A V)_{i,j}$, where $A:=\exp(QK^\top) \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times n}$ is a square matrix and $D := \mathrm{diag}(A {\bf 1}_n) \in \mathbb{R}^{n \times n}$ is a diagonal matrix. Here ${\bf 1}_n$ denote a length-$n$ vector that all the entries are ones. 

**Title:** Document-Level Machine Translation with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02210

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as Chat-GPT can produce coherent, cohesive, relevant, and fluent answers for various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Taking document-level machine translation (MT) as a testbed, this paper provides an in-depth evaluation of LLMs' ability on discourse modeling. The study fo-cuses on three aspects: 1) Effects of Discourse-Aware Prompts, where we investigate the impact of different prompts on document-level translation quality and discourse phenomena; 2) Comparison of Translation Models, where we compare the translation performance of Chat-GPT with commercial MT systems and advanced document-level MT methods; 3) Analysis of Discourse Modelling Abilities, where we further probe discourse knowledge encoded in LLMs and examine the impact of training techniques on discourse modeling. By evaluating a number of benchmarks, we surprisingly find that 1) leveraging their powerful long-text mod-eling capabilities, ChatGPT outperforms commercial MT systems in terms of human evaluation. 2) GPT-4 demonstrates a strong ability to explain discourse knowledge, even through it may select incorrect translation candidates in contrastive testing. 3) ChatGPT and GPT-4 have demonstrated superior performance and show potential to become a new and promising paradigm for document-level translation. This work highlights the challenges and opportunities of discourse modeling for LLMs, which we hope can inspire the future design and evaluation of LLMs. 

**Title:** METransformer: Radiology Report Generation by Transformer with Multiple  Learnable Expert Tokens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02211

**Abstract:** In clinical scenarios, multi-specialist consultation could significantly benefit the diagnosis, especially for intricate cases. This inspires us to explore a "multi-expert joint diagnosis" mechanism to upgrade the existing "single expert" framework commonly seen in the current literature. To this end, we propose METransformer, a method to realize this idea with a transformer-based backbone. The key design of our method is the introduction of multiple learnable "expert" tokens into both the transformer encoder and decoder. In the encoder, each expert token interacts with both vision tokens and other expert tokens to learn to attend different image regions for image representation. These expert tokens are encouraged to capture complementary information by an orthogonal loss that minimizes their overlap. In the decoder, each attended expert token guides the cross-attention between input words and visual tokens, thus influencing the generated report. A metrics-based expert voting strategy is further developed to generate the final report. By the multi-experts concept, our model enjoys the merits of an ensemble-based approach but through a manner that is computationally more efficient and supports more sophisticated interactions among experts. Experimental results demonstrate the promising performance of our proposed model on two widely used benchmarks. Last but not least, the framework-level innovation makes our work ready to incorporate advances on existing "single-expert" models to further improve its performance. 

**Title:** Large Language Models as Master Key: Unlocking the Secrets of Materials  Science with GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02213

**Abstract:** This article presents a new NLP task called structured information inference (SIS) to address the complexities of information extraction at the device level in materials science. We accomplished this task by finetuning GPT-3 on a exsiting perovskite solar cell FAIR dataset with 91.8 F1-score and we updated the dataset with all related scientific papers up to now. The produced dataset is formatted and normalized, enabling its direct utilization as input in subsequent data analysis. This feature will enable materials scientists to develop their own models by selecting high-quality review papers within their domain. Furthermore, we designed experiments to predict PCE and reverse-predict parameters and obtained comparable performance with DFT, which demonstrates the potential of large language models to judge materials and design new materials like a materials scientist. 

**Title:** BiFormer: Learning Bilateral Motion Estimation via Bilateral Transformer  for 4K Video Frame Interpolation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02225

**Abstract:** A novel 4K video frame interpolator based on bilateral transformer (BiFormer) is proposed in this paper, which performs three steps: global motion estimation, local motion refinement, and frame synthesis. First, in global motion estimation, we predict symmetric bilateral motion fields at a coarse scale. To this end, we propose BiFormer, the first transformer-based bilateral motion estimator. Second, we refine the global motion fields efficiently using blockwise bilateral cost volumes (BBCVs). Third, we warp the input frames using the refined motion fields and blend them to synthesize an intermediate frame. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed BiFormer algorithm achieves excellent interpolation performance on 4K datasets. The source codes are available at https://github.com/JunHeum/BiFormer. 

**Title:** JPEG Compressed Images Can Bypass Protections Against AI Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02234

**Abstract:** Recently developed text-to-image diffusion models make it easy to edit or create high-quality images. Their ease of use has raised concerns about the potential for malicious editing or deepfake creation. Imperceptible perturbations have been proposed as a means of protecting images from malicious editing by preventing diffusion models from generating realistic images. However, we find that the aforementioned perturbations are not robust to JPEG compression, which poses a major weakness because of the common usage and availability of JPEG. We discuss the importance of robustness for additive imperceptible perturbations and encourage alternative approaches to protect images against editing. 

**Title:** Convergence of a TPFA scheme for a diffusion-convection equation with a  multiplicative stochastic noise  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02259

**Abstract:** The aim of this paper is to address the convergence analysis of a finite-volume scheme for the approximation of a stochastic non-linear parabolic problem set in a bounded domain of $\mathbb{R}^2$ and under homogeneous Neumann boundary conditions. The considered discretization is semi-implicit in time and TPFA in space. By adapting well-known methods for the time-discretization of stochastic PDEs, one shows that the associated finite-volume approximation converges towards the unique variational solution of the continuous problem strongly in $L^2(\Omega; L^2(0,T;L^2(\Lambda)))$. 

**Title:** Towards Efficient Task-Driven Model Reprogramming with Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02263

**Abstract:** Vision foundation models exhibit impressive power, benefiting from the extremely large model capacity and broad training data. However, in practice, downstream scenarios may only support a small model due to the limited computational resources or efficiency considerations. Moreover, the data used for pretraining foundation models are usually invisible and very different from the target data of downstream tasks. This brings a critical challenge for the real-world application of foundation models: one has to transfer the knowledge of a foundation model to the downstream task that has a quite different architecture with only downstream target data. Existing transfer learning or knowledge distillation methods depend on either the same model structure or finetuning of the foundation model. Thus, naively introducing these methods can be either infeasible or very inefficient. To address this, we propose a Task-Driven Model Reprogramming (TDMR) framework. Specifically, we reprogram the foundation model to project the knowledge into a proxy space, which alleviates the adverse effect of task mismatch and domain inconsistency. Then, we reprogram the target model via progressive distillation from the proxy space to efficiently learn the knowledge from the reprogrammed foundation model. TDMR is compatible with different pre-trained model types (CNN, transformer or their mix) and limited target data, and promotes the wide applications of vision foundation models to downstream tasks in a cost-effective manner. Extensive experiments on different downstream classification tasks and target model structures demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods with both CNNs and transformer foundation models. 

**Title:** Few-shot Semantic Image Synthesis with Class Affinity Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02321

**Abstract:** Semantic image synthesis aims to generate photo realistic images given a semantic segmentation map. Despite much recent progress, training them still requires large datasets of images annotated with per-pixel label maps that are extremely tedious to obtain. To alleviate the high annotation cost, we propose a transfer method that leverages a model trained on a large source dataset to improve the learning ability on small target datasets via estimated pairwise relations between source and target classes. The class affinity matrix is introduced as a first layer to the source model to make it compatible with the target label maps, and the source model is then further finetuned for the target domain. To estimate the class affinities we consider different approaches to leverage prior knowledge: semantic segmentation on the source domain, textual label embeddings, and self-supervised vision features. We apply our approach to GAN-based and diffusion-based architectures for semantic synthesis. Our experiments show that the different ways to estimate class affinity can be effectively combined, and that our approach significantly improves over existing state-of-the-art transfer approaches for generative image models. 

**Title:** What's in a Name? Beyond Class Indices for Image Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02364

**Abstract:** Existing machine learning models demonstrate excellent performance in image object recognition after training on a large-scale dataset under full supervision. However, these models only learn to map an image to a predefined class index, without revealing the actual semantic meaning of the object in the image. In contrast, vision-language models like CLIP are able to assign semantic class names to unseen objects in a `zero-shot' manner, although they still rely on a predefined set of candidate names at test time. In this paper, we reconsider the recognition problem and task a vision-language model to assign class names to images given only a large and essentially unconstrained vocabulary of categories as prior information. We use non-parametric methods to establish relationships between images which allow the model to automatically narrow down the set of possible candidate names. Specifically, we propose iteratively clustering the data and voting on class names within them, showing that this enables a roughly 50\% improvement over the baseline on ImageNet. Furthermore, we tackle this problem both in unsupervised and partially supervised settings, as well as with a coarse-grained and fine-grained search space as the unconstrained dictionary. 

**Title:** TM2D: Bimodality Driven 3D Dance Generation via Music-Text Integration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02419

**Abstract:** We propose a novel task for generating 3D dance movements that simultaneously incorporate both text and music modalities. Unlike existing works that generate dance movements using a single modality such as music, our goal is to produce richer dance movements guided by the instructive information provided by the text. However, the lack of paired motion data with both music and text modalities limits the ability to generate dance movements that integrate both. To alleviate this challenge, we propose to utilize a 3D human motion VQ-VAE to project the motions of the two datasets into a latent space consisting of quantized vectors, which effectively mix the motion tokens from the two datasets with different distributions for training. Additionally, we propose a cross-modal transformer to integrate text instructions into motion generation architecture for generating 3D dance movements without degrading the performance of music-conditioned dance generation. To better evaluate the quality of the generated motion, we introduce two novel metrics, namely Motion Prediction Distance (MPD) and Freezing Score, to measure the coherence and freezing percentage of the generated motion. Extensive experiments show that our approach can generate realistic and coherent dance movements conditioned on both text and music while maintaining comparable performance with the two single modalities. Code will be available at: https://garfield-kh.github.io/TM2D/. 

**Title:** ParroT: Translating During Chat Using Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02426

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and GPT-4 have exhibited remarkable abilities on a wide range of natural language processing (NLP) tasks, including various machine translation abilities accomplished during chat. However, these models are only accessible through restricted APIs, which creates barriers to new research and advancements in the field. Therefore, we propose the $\mathbf{ParroT}$ framework to enhance and regulate the translation abilities during chat based on open-sourced LLMs (i.e., LLaMA-7b) and human written translation and evaluation data. Specifically, ParroT reformulates translation data into the instruction-following style, and introduces a "Hint" field for incorporating extra requirements to regulate the translation process. Accordingly, we propose three instruction types for finetuning ParroT models, including translation instruction, contrastive instruction, and error-guided instruction. Experiments on two Flores subsets and WMT22 test sets suggest that translation instruction improves the translation performance of vanilla LLMs significantly while error-guided instruction can lead to a further improvement, which demonstrates the importance of learning from low-quality translations annotated by human. Meanwhile, the ParroT models can also preserve the ability on general tasks with the Alpaca multi-task dataset involved in finetuning. Codes: https://github.com/wxjiao/ParroT 

**Title:** Comparative Analysis of CHATGPT and the evolution of language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02468

**Abstract:** Interest in Large Language Models (LLMs) has increased drastically since the emergence of ChatGPT and the outstanding positive societal response to the ease with which it performs tasks in Natural Language Processing (NLP). The triumph of ChatGPT, however, is how it seamlessly bridges the divide between language generation and knowledge models. In some cases, it provides anecdotal evidence of a framework for replicating human intuition over a knowledge domain. This paper highlights the prevailing ideas in NLP, including machine translation, machine summarization, question-answering, and language generation, and compares the performance of ChatGPT with the major algorithms in each of these categories using the Spontaneous Quality (SQ) score. A strategy for validating the arguments and results of ChatGPT is presented summarily as an example of safe, large-scale adoption of LLMs. 

**Title:** Evaluation of ChatGPT Family of Models for Biomedical Reasoning and  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02496

**Abstract:** Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have shown impressive ability in biomedical question-answering, but have not been adequately investigated for more specific biomedical applications. This study investigates the performance of LLMs such as the ChatGPT family of models (GPT-3.5s, GPT-4) in biomedical tasks beyond question-answering. Because no patient data can be passed to the OpenAI API public interface, we evaluated model performance with over 10000 samples as proxies for two fundamental tasks in the clinical domain - classification and reasoning. The first task is classifying whether statements of clinical and policy recommendations in scientific literature constitute health advice. The second task is causal relation detection from the biomedical literature. We compared LLMs with simpler models, such as bag-of-words (BoW) with logistic regression, and fine-tuned BioBERT models. Despite the excitement around viral ChatGPT, we found that fine-tuning for two fundamental NLP tasks remained the best strategy. The simple BoW model performed on par with the most complex LLM prompting. Prompt engineering required significant investment. 

**Title:** Face Transformer: Towards High Fidelity and Accurate Face Swapping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02530

**Abstract:** Face swapping aims to generate swapped images that fuse the identity of source faces and the attributes of target faces. Most existing works address this challenging task through 3D modelling or generation using generative adversarial networks (GANs), but 3D modelling suffers from limited reconstruction accuracy and GANs often struggle in preserving subtle yet important identity details of source faces (e.g., skin colors, face features) and structural attributes of target faces (e.g., face shapes, facial expressions). This paper presents Face Transformer, a novel face swapping network that can accurately preserve source identities and target attributes simultaneously in the swapped face images. We introduce a transformer network for the face swapping task, which learns high-quality semantic-aware correspondence between source and target faces and maps identity features of source faces to the corresponding region in target faces. The high-quality semantic-aware correspondence enables smooth and accurate transfer of source identity information with minimal modification of target shapes and expressions. In addition, our Face Transformer incorporates a multi-scale transformation mechanism for preserving the rich fine facial details. Extensive experiments show that our Face Transformer achieves superior face swapping performance qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**Title:** Goal-Conditioned Imitation Learning using Score-based Diffusion Policies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02532

**Abstract:** We propose a new policy representation based on score-based diffusion models (SDMs). We apply our new policy representation in the domain of Goal-Conditioned Imitation Learning (GCIL) to learn general-purpose goal-specified policies from large uncurated datasets without rewards. Our new goal-conditioned policy architecture "$\textbf{BE}$havior generation with $\textbf{S}$c$\textbf{O}$re-based Diffusion Policies" (BESO) leverages a generative, score-based diffusion model as its policy. BESO decouples the learning of the score model from the inference sampling process, and, hence allows for fast sampling strategies to generate goal-specified behavior in just 3 denoising steps, compared to 30+ steps of other diffusion based policies. Furthermore, BESO is highly expressive and can effectively capture multi-modality present in the solution space of the play data. Unlike previous methods such as Latent Plans or C-Bet, BESO does not rely on complex hierarchical policies or additional clustering for effective goal-conditioned behavior learning. Finally, we show how BESO can even be used to learn a goal-independent policy from play-data using classifier-free guidance. To the best of our knowledge this is the first work that a) represents a behavior policy based on such a decoupled SDM b) learns an SDM based policy in the domain of GCIL and c) provides a way to simultaneously learn a goal-dependent and a goal-independent policy from play-data. We evaluate BESO through detailed simulation and show that it consistently outperforms several state-of-the-art goal-conditioned imitation learning methods on challenging benchmarks. We additionally provide extensive ablation studies and experiments to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for effective goal-conditioned behavior generation. 

**Title:** Human-like Summarization Evaluation with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02554

**Abstract:** Evaluating text summarization is a challenging problem, and existing evaluation metrics are far from satisfactory. In this study, we explored ChatGPT's ability to perform human-like summarization evaluation using four human evaluation methods on five datasets. We found that ChatGPT was able to complete annotations relatively smoothly using Likert scale scoring, pairwise comparison, Pyramid, and binary factuality evaluation. Additionally, it outperformed commonly used automatic evaluation metrics on some datasets. Furthermore, we discussed the impact of different prompts, compared its performance with that of human evaluation, and analyzed the generated explanations and invalid responses. 

**Title:** Generative Novel View Synthesis with 3D-Aware Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02602

**Abstract:** We present a diffusion-based model for 3D-aware generative novel view synthesis from as few as a single input image. Our model samples from the distribution of possible renderings consistent with the input and, even in the presence of ambiguity, is capable of rendering diverse and plausible novel views. To achieve this, our method makes use of existing 2D diffusion backbones but, crucially, incorporates geometry priors in the form of a 3D feature volume. This latent feature field captures the distribution over possible scene representations and improves our method's ability to generate view-consistent novel renderings. In addition to generating novel views, our method has the ability to autoregressively synthesize 3D-consistent sequences. We demonstrate state-of-the-art results on synthetic renderings and room-scale scenes; we also show compelling results for challenging, real-world objects. 

**Title:** GenPhys: From Physical Processes to Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02637

**Abstract:** Since diffusion models (DM) and the more recent Poisson flow generative models (PFGM) are inspired by physical processes, it is reasonable to ask: Can physical processes offer additional new generative models? We show that the answer is yes. We introduce a general family, Generative Models from Physical Processes (GenPhys), where we translate partial differential equations (PDEs) describing physical processes to generative models. We show that generative models can be constructed from s-generative PDEs (s for smooth). GenPhys subsume the two existing generative models (DM and PFGM) and even give rise to new families of generative models, e.g., "Yukawa Generative Models" inspired from weak interactions. On the other hand, some physical processes by default do not belong to the GenPhys family, e.g., the wave equation and the Schr\"{o}dinger equation, but could be made into the GenPhys family with some modifications. Our goal with GenPhys is to explore and expand the design space of generative models. 

**Title:** Taming Encoder for Zero Fine-tuning Image Customization with  Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02642

**Abstract:** This paper proposes a method for generating images of customized objects specified by users. The method is based on a general framework that bypasses the lengthy optimization required by previous approaches, which often employ a per-object optimization paradigm. Our framework adopts an encoder to capture high-level identifiable semantics of objects, producing an object-specific embedding with only a single feed-forward pass. The acquired object embedding is then passed to a text-to-image synthesis model for subsequent generation. To effectively blend a object-aware embedding space into a well developed text-to-image model under the same generation context, we investigate different network designs and training strategies, and propose a simple yet effective regularized joint training scheme with an object identity preservation loss. Additionally, we propose a caption generation scheme that become a critical piece in fostering object specific embedding faithfully reflected into the generation process, while keeping control and editing abilities. Once trained, the network is able to produce diverse content and styles, conditioned on both texts and objects. We demonstrate through experiments that our proposed method is able to synthesize images with compelling output quality, appearance diversity, and object fidelity, without the need of test-time optimization. Systematic studies are also conducted to analyze our models, providing insights for future work. 

**Title:** Deep learning for diffusion in porous media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02104

**Abstract:** We adopt convolutional neural networks (CNN) to predict the basic properties of the porous media. Two different media types are considered: one mimics the sandstone, and the other mimics the systems derived from the extracellular space of biological tissues. The Lattice Boltzmann Method is used to obtain the labeled data necessary for performing supervised learning. We distinguish two tasks. In the first, networks based on the analysis of the system's geometry predict porosity and effective diffusion coefficient. In the second, networks reconstruct the system's geometry and concentration map. In the first task, we propose two types of CNN models: the C-Net and the encoder part of the U-Net. Both networks are modified by adding a self-normalization module. The models predict with reasonable accuracy but only within the data type, they are trained on. For instance, the model trained on sandstone-like samples overshoots or undershoots for biological-like samples. In the second task, we propose the usage of the U-Net architecture. It accurately reconstructs the concentration fields. Moreover, the network trained on one data type works well for the other. For instance, the model trained on sandstone-like samples works perfectly on biological-like samples. 

**Title:** EigenFold: Generative Protein Structure Prediction with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02198

**Abstract:** Protein structure prediction has reached revolutionary levels of accuracy on single structures, yet distributional modeling paradigms are needed to capture the conformational ensembles and flexibility that underlie biological function. Towards this goal, we develop EigenFold, a diffusion generative modeling framework for sampling a distribution of structures from a given protein sequence. We define a diffusion process that models the structure as a system of harmonic oscillators and which naturally induces a cascading-resolution generative process along the eigenmodes of the system. On recent CAMEO targets, EigenFold achieves a median TMScore of 0.84, while providing a more comprehensive picture of model uncertainty via the ensemble of sampled structures relative to existing methods. We then assess EigenFold's ability to model and predict conformational heterogeneity for fold-switching proteins and ligand-induced conformational change. Code is available at https://github.com/bjing2016/EigenFold. 

