**Title:** Recovering Continuous Scene Dynamics from A Single Blurry Image with  Events  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02695

**Abstract:** This paper aims at demystifying a single motion-blurred image with events and revealing temporally continuous scene dynamics encrypted behind motion blurs. To achieve this end, an Implicit Video Function (IVF) is learned to represent a single motion blurred image with concurrent events, enabling the latent sharp image restoration of arbitrary timestamps in the range of imaging exposures. Specifically, a dual attention transformer is proposed to efficiently leverage merits from both modalities, i.e., the high temporal resolution of event features and the smoothness of image features, alleviating temporal ambiguities while suppressing the event noise. The proposed network is trained only with the supervision of ground-truth images of limited referenced timestamps. Motion- and texture-guided supervisions are employed simultaneously to enhance restorations of the non-referenced timestamps and improve the overall sharpness. Experiments on synthetic, semi-synthetic, and real-world datasets demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a large margin in terms of both objective PSNR and SSIM measurements and subjective evaluations. 

**Title:** Learning Stage-wise GANs for Whistle Extraction in Time-Frequency  Spectrograms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02714

**Abstract:** Whistle contour extraction aims to derive animal whistles from time-frequency spectrograms as polylines. For toothed whales, whistle extraction results can serve as the basis for analyzing animal abundance, species identity, and social activities. During the last few decades, as long-term recording systems have become affordable, automated whistle extraction algorithms were proposed to process large volumes of recording data. Recently, a deep learning-based method demonstrated superior performance in extracting whistles under varying noise conditions. However, training such networks requires a large amount of labor-intensive annotation, which is not available for many species. To overcome this limitation, we present a framework of stage-wise generative adversarial networks (GANs), which compile new whistle data suitable for deep model training via three stages: generation of background noise in the spectrogram, generation of whistle contours, and generation of whistle signals. By separating the generation of different components in the samples, our framework composes visually promising whistle data and labels even when few expert annotated data are available. Regardless of the amount of human-annotated data, the proposed data augmentation framework leads to a consistent improvement in performance of the whistle extraction model, with a maximum increase of 1.69 in the whistle extraction mean F1-score. Our stage-wise GAN also surpasses one single GAN in improving whistle extraction models with augmented data. The data and code will be available at https://github.com/Paul-LiPu/CompositeGAN\_WhistleAugment. 

**Title:** Image Stabilization for Hololens Camera in Remote Collaboration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02736

**Abstract:** With the advent of new technologies, Augmented Reality (AR) has become an effective tool in remote collaboration. Narrow field-of-view (FoV) and motion blur can offer an unpleasant experience with limited cognition for remote viewers of AR headsets. In this article, we propose a two-stage pipeline to tackle this issue and ensure a stable viewing experience with a larger FoV. The solution involves an offline 3D reconstruction of the indoor environment, followed by enhanced rendering using only the live poses of AR device. We experiment with and evaluate the two different 3D reconstruction methods, RGB-D geometric approach and Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF), based on their data requirements, reconstruction quality, rendering, and training times. The generated sequences from these methods had smoother transitions and provided a better perspective of the environment. The geometry-based enhanced FoV method had better renderings as it lacked blurry outputs making it better than the other attempted approaches. Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) and Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR) metrics were used to quantitatively show that the rendering quality using the geometry-based enhanced FoV method is better. Link to the code repository - https://github.com/MixedRealityETHZ/ImageStabilization. 

**Title:** Bengali Fake Review Detection using Semi-supervised Generative  Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02739

**Abstract:** This paper investigates the potential of semi-supervised Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to fine-tune pretrained language models in order to classify Bengali fake reviews from real reviews with a few annotated data. With the rise of social media and e-commerce, the ability to detect fake or deceptive reviews is becoming increasingly important in order to protect consumers from being misled by false information. Any machine learning model will have trouble identifying a fake review, especially for a low resource language like Bengali. We have demonstrated that the proposed semi-supervised GAN-LM architecture (generative adversarial network on top of a pretrained language model) is a viable solution in classifying Bengali fake reviews as the experimental results suggest that even with only 1024 annotated samples, BanglaBERT with semi-supervised GAN (SSGAN) achieved an accuracy of 83.59% and a f1-score of 84.89% outperforming other pretrained language models - BanglaBERT generator, Bangla BERT Base and Bangla-Electra by almost 3%, 4% and 10% respectively in terms of accuracy. The experiments were conducted on a manually labeled food review dataset consisting of total 6014 real and fake reviews collected from various social media groups. Researchers that are experiencing difficulty recognizing not just fake reviews but other classification issues owing to a lack of labeled data may find a solution in our proposed methodology. 

**Title:** StyleGAN Salon: Multi-View Latent Optimization for Pose-Invariant  Hairstyle Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02744

**Abstract:** Our paper seeks to transfer the hairstyle of a reference image to an input photo for virtual hair try-on. We target a variety of challenges scenarios, such as transforming a long hairstyle with bangs to a pixie cut, which requires removing the existing hair and inferring how the forehead would look, or transferring partially visible hair from a hat-wearing person in a different pose. Past solutions leverage StyleGAN for hallucinating any missing parts and producing a seamless face-hair composite through so-called GAN inversion or projection. However, there remains a challenge in controlling the hallucinations to accurately transfer hairstyle and preserve the face shape and identity of the input. To overcome this, we propose a multi-view optimization framework that uses "two different views" of reference composites to semantically guide occluded or ambiguous regions. Our optimization shares information between two poses, which allows us to produce high fidelity and realistic results from incomplete references. Our framework produces high-quality results and outperforms prior work in a user study that consists of significantly more challenging hair transfer scenarios than previously studied. Project page: https://stylegan-salon.github.io/. 

**Title:** Behavioral estimates of conceptual structure are robust across tasks in  humans but not large language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02754

**Abstract:** Neural network models of language have long been used as a tool for developing hypotheses about conceptual representation in the mind and brain. For many years, such use involved extracting vector-space representations of words and using distances among these to predict or understand human behavior in various semantic tasks. In contemporary language AIs, however, it is possible to interrogate the latent structure of conceptual representations using methods nearly identical to those commonly used with human participants. The current work uses two common techniques borrowed from cognitive psychology to estimate and compare lexical-semantic structure in both humans and a well-known AI, the DaVinci variant of GPT-3. In humans, we show that conceptual structure is robust to differences in culture, language, and method of estimation. Structures estimated from AI behavior, while individually fairly consistent with those estimated from human behavior, depend much more upon the particular task used to generate behavior responses--responses generated by the very same model in the two tasks yield estimates of conceptual structure that cohere less with one another than do human structure estimates. The results suggest one important way that knowledge inhering in contemporary AIs can differ from human cognition. 

**Title:** Application of Transformers based methods in Electronic Medical Records:  A Systematic Literature Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02768

**Abstract:** The combined growth of available data and their unstructured nature has received increased interest in natural language processing (NLP) techniques to make value of these data assets since this format is not suitable for statistical analysis. This work presents a systematic literature review of state-of-the-art advances using transformer-based methods on electronic medical records (EMRs) in different NLP tasks. To the best of our knowledge, this work is unique in providing a comprehensive review of research on transformer-based methods for NLP applied to the EMR field. In the initial query, 99 articles were selected from three public databases and filtered into 65 articles for detailed analysis. The papers were analyzed with respect to the business problem, NLP task, models and techniques, availability of datasets, reproducibility of modeling, language, and exchange format. The paper presents some limitations of current research and some recommendations for further research. 

**Title:** A Transformer-Based Deep Learning Approach for Fairly Predicting  Post-Liver Transplant Risk Factors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02780

**Abstract:** Liver transplantation is a life-saving procedure for patients with end-stage liver disease. There are two main challenges in liver transplant: finding the best matching patient for a donor and ensuring transplant equity among different subpopulations. The current MELD scoring system evaluates a patient's mortality risk if not receiving an organ within 90 days. However, the donor-patient matching should also take into consideration post-transplant risk factors, such as cardiovascular disease, chronic rejection, etc., which are all common complications after transplant. Accurate prediction of these risk scores remains a significant challenge. In this study, we will use predictive models to solve the above challenge. We propose a deep learning framework model to predict multiple risk factors after a liver transplant. By formulating it as a multi-task learning problem, the proposed deep neural network was trained on this data to simultaneously predict the five post-transplant risks and achieve equally good performance by leveraging task balancing techniques. We also propose a novel fairness achieving algorithm and to ensure prediction fairness across different subpopulations. We used electronic health records of 160,360 liver transplant patients, including demographic information, clinical variables, and laboratory values, collected from the liver transplant records of the United States from 1987 to 2018. The performance of the model was evaluated using various performance metrics such as AUROC, AURPC, and accuracy. The results of our experiments demonstrate that the proposed multitask prediction model achieved high accuracy and good balance in predicting all five post-transplant risk factors, with a maximum accuracy discrepancy of only 2.7%. The fairness-achieving algorithm significantly reduced the fairness disparity compared to the baseline model. 

**Title:** Context-Aware Classification of Legal Document Pages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02787

**Abstract:** For many business applications that require the processing, indexing, and retrieval of professional documents such as legal briefs (in PDF format etc.), it is often essential to classify the pages of any given document into their corresponding types beforehand. Most existing studies in the field of document image classification either focus on single-page documents or treat multiple pages in a document independently. Although in recent years a few techniques have been proposed to exploit the context information from neighboring pages to enhance document page classification, they typically cannot be utilized with large pre-trained language models due to the constraint on input length. In this paper, we present a simple but effective approach that overcomes the above limitation. Specifically, we enhance the input with extra tokens carrying sequential information about previous pages - introducing recurrence - which enables the usage of pre-trained Transformer models like BERT for context-aware page classification. Our experiments conducted on two legal datasets in English and Portuguese respectively show that the proposed approach can significantly improve the performance of document page classification compared to the non-recurrent setup as well as the other context-aware baselines. 

**Title:** Opportunities and challenges of ChatGPT for design knowledge management  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02796

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Natural Language Processing have opened up new possibilities for the development of large language models like ChatGPT, which can facilitate knowledge management in the design process by providing designers with access to a vast array of relevant information. However, integrating ChatGPT into the design process also presents new challenges. In this paper, we provide a concise review of the classification and representation of design knowledge, and past efforts to support designers in acquiring knowledge. We analyze the opportunities and challenges that ChatGPT presents for knowledge management in design and propose promising future research directions. A case study is conducted to validate the advantages and drawbacks of ChatGPT, showing that designers can acquire targeted knowledge from various domains, but the quality of the acquired knowledge is highly dependent on the prompt. 

**Title:** DeLiRa: Self-Supervised Depth, Light, and Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02797

**Abstract:** Differentiable volumetric rendering is a powerful paradigm for 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, standard volume rendering approaches struggle with degenerate geometries in the case of limited viewpoint diversity, a common scenario in robotics applications. In this work, we propose to use the multi-view photometric objective from the self-supervised depth estimation literature as a geometric regularizer for volumetric rendering, significantly improving novel view synthesis without requiring additional information. Building upon this insight, we explore the explicit modeling of scene geometry using a generalist Transformer, jointly learning a radiance field as well as depth and light fields with a set of shared latent codes. We demonstrate that sharing geometric information across tasks is mutually beneficial, leading to improvements over single-task learning without an increase in network complexity. Our DeLiRa architecture achieves state-of-the-art results on the ScanNet benchmark, enabling high quality volumetric rendering as well as real-time novel view and depth synthesis in the limited viewpoint diversity setting. 

**Title:** GPT detectors are biased against non-native English writers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02819

**Abstract:** The rapid adoption of generative language models has brought about substantial advancements in digital communication, while simultaneously raising concerns regarding the potential misuse of AI-generated content. Although numerous detection methods have been proposed to differentiate between AI and human-generated content, the fairness and robustness of these detectors remain underexplored. In this study, we evaluate the performance of several widely-used GPT detectors using writing samples from native and non-native English writers. Our findings reveal that these detectors consistently misclassify non-native English writing samples as AI-generated, whereas native writing samples are accurately identified. Furthermore, we demonstrate that simple prompting strategies can not only mitigate this bias but also effectively bypass GPT detectors, suggesting that GPT detectors may unintentionally penalize writers with constrained linguistic expressions. Our results call for a broader conversation about the ethical implications of deploying ChatGPT content detectors and caution against their use in evaluative or educational settings, particularly when they may inadvertently penalize or exclude non-native English speakers from the global discourse. 

**Title:** DITTO-NeRF: Diffusion-based Iterative Text To Omni-directional 3D Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02827

**Abstract:** The increasing demand for high-quality 3D content creation has motivated the development of automated methods for creating 3D object models from a single image and/or from a text prompt. However, the reconstructed 3D objects using state-of-the-art image-to-3D methods still exhibit low correspondence to the given image and low multi-view consistency. Recent state-of-the-art text-to-3D methods are also limited, yielding 3D samples with low diversity per prompt with long synthesis time. To address these challenges, we propose DITTO-NeRF, a novel pipeline to generate a high-quality 3D NeRF model from a text prompt or a single image. Our DITTO-NeRF consists of constructing high-quality partial 3D object for limited in-boundary (IB) angles using the given or text-generated 2D image from the frontal view and then iteratively reconstructing the remaining 3D NeRF using inpainting latent diffusion model. We propose progressive 3D object reconstruction schemes in terms of scales (low to high resolution), angles (IB angles initially to outer-boundary (OB) later), and masks (object to background boundary) in our DITTO-NeRF so that high-quality information on IB can be propagated into OB. Our DITTO-NeRF outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of fidelity and diversity qualitatively and quantitatively with much faster training times than prior arts on image/text-to-3D such as DreamFusion, and NeuralLift-360. 

**Title:** Uncurated Image-Text Datasets: Shedding Light on Demographic Bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02828

**Abstract:** The increasing tendency to collect large and uncurated datasets to train vision-and-language models has raised concerns about fair representations. It is known that even small but manually annotated datasets, such as MSCOCO, are affected by societal bias. This problem, far from being solved, may be getting worse with data crawled from the Internet without much control. In addition, the lack of tools to analyze societal bias in big collections of images makes addressing the problem extremely challenging. Our first contribution is to annotate part of the Google Conceptual Captions dataset, widely used for training vision-and-language models, with four demographic and two contextual attributes. Our second contribution is to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the annotations, focusing on how different demographic groups are represented. Our last contribution lies in evaluating three prevailing vision-and-language tasks: image captioning, text-image CLIP embeddings, and text-to-image generation, showing that societal bias is a persistent problem in all of them. 

**Title:** TBDetector:Transformer-Based Detector for Advanced Persistent Threats  with Provenance Graph  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02838

**Abstract:** APT detection is difficult to detect due to the long-term latency, covert and slow multistage attack patterns of Advanced Persistent Threat (APT). To tackle these issues, we propose TBDetector, a transformer-based advanced persistent threat detection method for APT attack detection. Considering that provenance graphs provide rich historical information and have the powerful attacks historic correlation ability to identify anomalous activities, TBDetector employs provenance analysis for APT detection, which summarizes long-running system execution with space efficiency and utilizes transformer with self-attention based encoder-decoder to extract long-term contextual features of system states to detect slow-acting attacks. Furthermore, we further introduce anomaly scores to investigate the anomaly of different system states, where each state is calculated with an anomaly score corresponding to its similarity score and isolation score. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we have conducted experiments on five public datasets, i.e., streamspot, cadets, shellshock, clearscope, and wget_baseline. Experimental results and comparisons with state-of-the-art methods have exhibited better performance of our proposed method. 

**Title:** Synthetic Sample Selection for Generalized Zero-Shot Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02846

**Abstract:** Generalized Zero-Shot Learning (GZSL) has emerged as a pivotal research domain in computer vision, owing to its capability to recognize objects that have not been seen during training. Despite the significant progress achieved by generative techniques in converting traditional GZSL to fully supervised learning, they tend to generate a large number of synthetic features that are often redundant, thereby increasing training time and decreasing accuracy. To address this issue, this paper proposes a novel approach for synthetic feature selection using reinforcement learning. In particular, we propose a transformer-based selector that is trained through proximal policy optimization (PPO) to select synthetic features based on the validation classification accuracy of the seen classes, which serves as a reward. The proposed method is model-agnostic and data-agnostic, making it applicable to both images and videos and versatile for diverse applications. Our experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our approach over existing feature-generating methods, yielding improved overall performance on multiple benchmarks. 

**Title:** MULLER: Multilayer Laplacian Resizer for Vision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02859

**Abstract:** Image resizing operation is a fundamental preprocessing module in modern computer vision. Throughout the deep learning revolution, researchers have overlooked the potential of alternative resizing methods beyond the commonly used resizers that are readily available, such as nearest-neighbors, bilinear, and bicubic. The key question of our interest is whether the front-end resizer affects the performance of deep vision models? In this paper, we present an extremely lightweight multilayer Laplacian resizer with only a handful of trainable parameters, dubbed MULLER resizer. MULLER has a bandpass nature in that it learns to boost details in certain frequency subbands that benefit the downstream recognition models. We show that MULLER can be easily plugged into various training pipelines, and it effectively boosts the performance of the underlying vision task with little to no extra cost. Specifically, we select a state-of-the-art vision Transformer, MaxViT, as the baseline, and show that, if trained with MULLER, MaxViT gains up to 0.6% top-1 accuracy, and meanwhile enjoys 36% inference cost saving to achieve similar top-1 accuracy on ImageNet-1k, as compared to the standard training scheme. Notably, MULLER's performance also scales with model size and training data size such as ImageNet-21k and JFT, and it is widely applicable to multiple vision tasks, including image classification, object detection and segmentation, as well as image quality assessment. 

**Title:** Towards an Effective and Efficient Transformer for Rain-by-snow Weather  Removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02860

**Abstract:** Rain-by-snow weather removal is a specialized task in weather-degraded image restoration aiming to eliminate coexisting rain streaks and snow particles. In this paper, we propose RSFormer, an efficient and effective Transformer that addresses this challenge. Initially, we explore the proximity of convolution networks (ConvNets) and vision Transformers (ViTs) in hierarchical architectures and experimentally find they perform approximately at intra-stage feature learning. On this basis, we utilize a Transformer-like convolution block (TCB) that replaces the computationally expensive self-attention while preserving attention characteristics for adapting to input content. We also demonstrate that cross-stage progression is critical for performance improvement, and propose a global-local self-attention sampling mechanism (GLASM) that down-/up-samples features while capturing both global and local dependencies. Finally, we synthesize two novel rain-by-snow datasets, RSCityScape and RS100K, to evaluate our proposed RSFormer. Extensive experiments verify that RSFormer achieves the best trade-off between performance and time-consumption compared to other restoration methods. For instance, it outperforms Restormer with a 1.53% reduction in the number of parameters and a 15.6% reduction in inference time. Datasets, source code and pre-trained models are available at \url{https://github.com/chdwyb/RSFormer}. 

**Title:** Can Large Language Models Play Text Games Well? Current State-of-the-Art  and Open Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02868

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 have recently demonstrated their remarkable abilities of communicating with human users. In this technical report, we take an initiative to investigate their capacities of playing text games, in which a player has to understand the environment and respond to situations by having dialogues with the game world. Our experiments show that ChatGPT performs competitively compared to all the existing systems but still exhibits a low level of intelligence. Precisely, ChatGPT can not construct the world model by playing the game or even reading the game manual; it may fail to leverage the world knowledge that it already has; it cannot infer the goal of each step as the game progresses. Our results open up new research questions at the intersection of artificial intelligence, machine learning, and natural language processing. 

**Title:** MemeFier: Dual-stage Modality Fusion for Image Meme Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02906

**Abstract:** Hate speech is a societal problem that has significantly grown through the Internet. New forms of digital content such as image memes have given rise to spread of hate using multimodal means, being far more difficult to analyse and detect compared to the unimodal case. Accurate automatic processing, analysis and understanding of this kind of content will facilitate the endeavor of hindering hate speech proliferation through the digital world. To this end, we propose MemeFier, a deep learning-based architecture for fine-grained classification of Internet image memes, utilizing a dual-stage modality fusion module. The first fusion stage produces feature vectors containing modality alignment information that captures non-trivial connections between the text and image of a meme. The second fusion stage leverages the power of a Transformer encoder to learn inter-modality correlations at the token level and yield an informative representation. Additionally, we consider external knowledge as an additional input, and background image caption supervision as a regularizing component. Extensive experiments on three widely adopted benchmarks, i.e., Facebook Hateful Memes, Memotion7k and MultiOFF, indicate that our approach competes and in some cases surpasses state-of-the-art. Our code is available on GitHub https://github.com/ckoutlis/memefier. 

**Title:** Efficient Audio Captioning Transformer with Patchout and Text Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02916

**Abstract:** Automated audio captioning is multi-modal translation task that aim to generate textual descriptions for a given audio clip. In this paper we propose a full Transformer architecture that utilizes Patchout as proposed in [1], significantly reducing the computational complexity and avoiding overfitting. The caption generation is partly conditioned on textual AudioSet tags extracted by a pre-trained classification model which is fine-tuned to maximize the semantic similarity between AudioSet labels and ground truth captions. To mitigate the data scarcity problem of Automated Audio Captioning we introduce transfer learning from an upstream audio-related task and an enlarged in-domain dataset. Moreover, we propose a method to apply Mixup augmentation for AAC. Ablation studies are carried out to investigate how Patchout and text guidance contribute to the final performance. The results show that the proposed techniques improve the performance of our system and while reducing the computational complexity. Our proposed method received the Judges Award at the Task6A of DCASE Challenge 2022. 

**Title:** All Keypoints You Need: Detecting Arbitrary Keypoints on the Body of  Triple, High, and Long Jump Athletes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02939

**Abstract:** Performance analyses based on videos are commonly used by coaches of athletes in various sports disciplines. In individual sports, these analyses mainly comprise the body posture. This paper focuses on the disciplines of triple, high, and long jump, which require fine-grained locations of the athlete's body. Typical human pose estimation datasets provide only a very limited set of keypoints, which is not sufficient in this case. Therefore, we propose a method to detect arbitrary keypoints on the whole body of the athlete by leveraging the limited set of annotated keypoints and auto-generated segmentation masks of body parts. Evaluations show that our model is capable of detecting keypoints on the head, torso, hands, feet, arms, and legs, including also bent elbows and knees. We analyze and compare different techniques to encode desired keypoints as the model's input and their embedding for the Transformer backbone. 

**Title:** InterFormer: Real-time Interactive Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02942

**Abstract:** Interactive image segmentation enables annotators to efficiently perform pixel-level annotation for segmentation tasks. However, the existing interactive segmentation pipeline suffers from inefficient computations of interactive models because of the following two issues. First, annotators' later click is based on models' feedback of annotators' former click. This serial interaction is unable to utilize model's parallelism capabilities. Second, the model has to repeatedly process the image, the annotator's current click, and the model's feedback of the annotator's former clicks at each step of interaction, resulting in redundant computations. For efficient computation, we propose a method named InterFormer that follows a new pipeline to address these issues. InterFormer extracts and preprocesses the computationally time-consuming part i.e. image processing from the existing process. Specifically, InterFormer employs a large vision transformer (ViT) on high-performance devices to preprocess images in parallel, and then uses a lightweight module called interactive multi-head self attention (I-MSA) for interactive segmentation. Furthermore, the I-MSA module's deployment on low-power devices extends the practical application of interactive segmentation. The I-MSA module utilizes the preprocessed features to efficiently response to the annotator inputs in real-time. The experiments on several datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of InterFormer, which outperforms previous interactive segmentation models in terms of computational efficiency and segmentation quality, achieve real-time high-quality interactive segmentation on CPU-only devices. 

**Title:** FengWu: Pushing the Skillful Global Medium-range Weather Forecast beyond  10 Days Lead  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02948

**Abstract:** We present FengWu, an advanced data-driven global medium-range weather forecast system based on Artificial Intelligence (AI). Different from existing data-driven weather forecast methods, FengWu solves the medium-range forecast problem from a multi-modal and multi-task perspective. Specifically, a deep learning architecture equipped with model-specific encoder-decoders and cross-modal fusion Transformer is elaborately designed, which is learned under the supervision of an uncertainty loss to balance the optimization of different predictors in a region-adaptive manner. Besides this, a replay buffer mechanism is introduced to improve medium-range forecast performance. With 39-year data training based on the ERA5 reanalysis, FengWu is able to accurately reproduce the atmospheric dynamics and predict the future land and atmosphere states at 37 vertical levels on a 0.25{\deg} latitude-longitude resolution. Hindcasts of 6-hourly weather in 2018 based on ERA5 demonstrate that FengWu performs better than GraphCast in predicting 80\% of the 880 reported predictands, e.g., reducing the root mean square error (RMSE) of 10-day lead global z500 prediction from 733 to 651 $m^{2}/s^2$. In addition, the inference cost of each iteration is merely 600ms on NVIDIA Tesla A100 hardware. The results suggest that FengWu can significantly improve the forecast skill and extend the skillful global medium-range weather forecast out to 10.75 days lead (with ACC of z500 > 0.6) for the first time. 

**Title:** Benchmarking Robustness to Text-Guided Corruptions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02963

**Abstract:** This study investigates the robustness of image classifiers to text-guided corruptions. We utilize diffusion models to edit images to different domains. Unlike other works that use synthetic or hand-picked data for benchmarking, we use diffusion models as they are generative models capable of learning to edit images while preserving their semantic content. Thus, the corruptions will be more realistic and the comparison will be more informative. Also, there is no need for manual labeling and we can create large-scale benchmarks with less effort. We define a prompt hierarchy based on the original ImageNet hierarchy to apply edits in different domains. As well as introducing a new benchmark we try to investigate the robustness of different vision models. The results of this study demonstrate that the performance of image classifiers decreases significantly in different language-based corruptions and edit domains. We also observe that convolutional models are more robust than transformer architectures. Additionally, we see that common data augmentation techniques can improve the performance on both the original data and the edited images. The findings of this research can help improve the design of image classifiers and contribute to the development of more robust machine learning systems. The code for generating the benchmark will be made available online upon publication. 

**Title:** PointCAT: Cross-Attention Transformer for point cloud  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03012

**Abstract:** Transformer-based models have significantly advanced natural language processing and computer vision in recent years. However, due to the irregular and disordered structure of point cloud data, transformer-based models for 3D deep learning are still in their infancy compared to other methods. In this paper we present Point Cross-Attention Transformer (PointCAT), a novel end-to-end network architecture using cross-attentions mechanism for point cloud representing. Our approach combines multi-scale features via two seprate cross-attention transformer branches. To reduce the computational increase brought by multi-branch structure, we further introduce an efficient model for shape classification, which only process single class token of one branch as a query to calculate attention map with the other. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms or achieves comparable performance to several approaches in shape classification, part segmentation and semantic segmentation tasks. 

**Title:** TagGPT: Large Language Models are Zero-shot Multimodal Taggers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03022

**Abstract:** Tags are pivotal in facilitating the effective distribution of multimedia content in various applications in the contemporary Internet era, such as search engines and recommendation systems. Recently, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across a wide range of tasks. In this work, we propose TagGPT, a fully automated system capable of tag extraction and multimodal tagging in a completely zero-shot fashion. Our core insight is that, through elaborate prompt engineering, LLMs are able to extract and reason about proper tags given textual clues of multimodal data, e.g., OCR, ASR, title, etc. Specifically, to automatically build a high-quality tag set that reflects user intent and interests for a specific application, TagGPT predicts large-scale candidate tags from a series of raw data via prompting LLMs, filtered with frequency and semantics. Given a new entity that needs tagging for distribution, TagGPT introduces two alternative options for zero-shot tagging, i.e., a generative method with late semantic matching with the tag set, and another selective method with early matching in prompts. It is well noticed that TagGPT provides a system-level solution based on a modular framework equipped with a pre-trained LLM (GPT-3.5 used here) and a sentence embedding model (SimCSE used here), which can be seamlessly replaced with any more advanced one you want. TagGPT is applicable for various modalities of data in modern social media and showcases strong generalization ability to a wide range of applications. We evaluate TagGPT on publicly available datasets, i.e., Kuaishou and Food.com, and demonstrate the effectiveness of TagGPT compared to existing hashtags and off-the-shelf taggers. Project page: https://github.com/TencentARC/TagGPT. 

**Title:** ETPNav: Evolving Topological Planning for Vision-Language Navigation in  Continuous Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03047

**Abstract:** Vision-language navigation is a task that requires an agent to follow instructions to navigate in environments. It becomes increasingly crucial in the field of embodied AI, with potential applications in autonomous navigation, search and rescue, and human-robot interaction. In this paper, we propose to address a more practical yet challenging counterpart setting - vision-language navigation in continuous environments (VLN-CE). To develop a robust VLN-CE agent, we propose a new navigation framework, ETPNav, which focuses on two critical skills: 1) the capability to abstract environments and generate long-range navigation plans, and 2) the ability of obstacle-avoiding control in continuous environments. ETPNav performs online topological mapping of environments by self-organizing predicted waypoints along a traversed path, without prior environmental experience. It privileges the agent to break down the navigation procedure into high-level planning and low-level control. Concurrently, ETPNav utilizes a transformer-based cross-modal planner to generate navigation plans based on topological maps and instructions. The plan is then performed through an obstacle-avoiding controller that leverages a trial-and-error heuristic to prevent navigation from getting stuck in obstacles. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. ETPNav yields more than 10% and 20% improvements over prior state-of-the-art on R2R-CE and RxR-CE datasets, respectively. Our code is available at https://github.com/MarSaKi/ETPNav. 

**Title:** ChatGPT for Shaping the Future of Dentistry: The Potential of  Multi-Modal Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03086

**Abstract:** The ChatGPT, as a lite and conversational variant of Generative Pretrained Transformer 4 (GPT-4) developed by OpenAI, is one of the milestone Large Language Models (LLMs) with billions of parameters. LLMs, in fact, have stirred up a lot of interest among researchers and practitioners by their impressive skills in natural language processing tasks, which have a profound impact on a wide range of fields. This paper mainly discusses the future applications of LLMs in dentistry. We introduce two primary LLM deployment methods in dentistry, including automated dental diagnosis and cross-modal dental diagnosis, and examine their potential applications. Especially, equipped with a cross-modal encoder, a single LLM can manage multi-source data and conduct advanced natural language reasoning to perform complex clinical operations. A use case is presented to demonstrate the potential of a fully automatic Multi-Modal LLM AI system for dentistry clinical application. While LLMs offer significant potential benefits, the challenges, such as data privacy, data quality, and model bias, need further study. Overall, LLMs have the potential to revolutionize dental diagnosis and treatment, which indicates a promising avenue for clinical application and research in dentistry. 

**Title:** Investigating Chain-of-thought with ChatGPT for Stance Detection on  Social Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03087

**Abstract:** Stance detection predicts attitudes towards targets in texts and has gained attention with the rise of social media. Traditional approaches include conventional machine learning, early deep neural networks, and pre-trained fine-tuning models. However, with the evolution of very large pre-trained language models (VLPLMs) like ChatGPT (GPT-3.5), traditional methods face deployment challenges. The parameter-free Chain-of-Thought (CoT) approach, not requiring backpropagation training, has emerged as a promising alternative. This paper examines CoT's effectiveness in stance detection tasks, demonstrating its superior accuracy and discussing associated challenges. 

**Title:** Continual Detection Transformer for Incremental Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03110

**Abstract:** Incremental object detection (IOD) aims to train an object detector in phases, each with annotations for new object categories. As other incremental settings, IOD is subject to catastrophic forgetting, which is often addressed by techniques such as knowledge distillation (KD) and exemplar replay (ER). However, KD and ER do not work well if applied directly to state-of-the-art transformer-based object detectors such as Deformable DETR and UP-DETR. In this paper, we solve these issues by proposing a ContinuaL DEtection TRansformer (CL-DETR), a new method for transformer-based IOD which enables effective usage of KD and ER in this context. First, we introduce a Detector Knowledge Distillation (DKD) loss, focusing on the most informative and reliable predictions from old versions of the model, ignoring redundant background predictions, and ensuring compatibility with the available ground-truth labels. We also improve ER by proposing a calibration strategy to preserve the label distribution of the training set, therefore better matching training and testing statistics. We conduct extensive experiments on COCO 2017 and demonstrate that CL-DETR achieves state-of-the-art results in the IOD setting. 

**Title:** DreamFace: Progressive Generation of Animatable 3D Faces under Text  Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03117

**Abstract:** Emerging Metaverse applications demand accessible, accurate, and easy-to-use tools for 3D digital human creations in order to depict different cultures and societies as if in the physical world. Recent large-scale vision-language advances pave the way to for novices to conveniently customize 3D content. However, the generated CG-friendly assets still cannot represent the desired facial traits for human characteristics. In this paper, we present DreamFace, a progressive scheme to generate personalized 3D faces under text guidance. It enables layman users to naturally customize 3D facial assets that are compatible with CG pipelines, with desired shapes, textures, and fine-grained animation capabilities. From a text input to describe the facial traits, we first introduce a coarse-to-fine scheme to generate the neutral facial geometry with a unified topology. We employ a selection strategy in the CLIP embedding space, and subsequently optimize both the details displacements and normals using Score Distillation Sampling from generic Latent Diffusion Model. Then, for neutral appearance generation, we introduce a dual-path mechanism, which combines the generic LDM with a novel texture LDM to ensure both the diversity and textural specification in the UV space. We also employ a two-stage optimization to perform SDS in both the latent and image spaces to significantly provides compact priors for fine-grained synthesis. Our generated neutral assets naturally support blendshapes-based facial animations. We further improve the animation ability with personalized deformation characteristics by learning the universal expression prior using the cross-identity hypernetwork. Notably, DreamFace can generate of realistic 3D facial assets with physically-based rendering quality and rich animation ability from video footage, even for fashion icons or exotic characters in cartoons and fiction movies. 

**Title:** Zero-shot Generative Model Adaptation via Image-specific Prompt Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03119

**Abstract:** Recently, CLIP-guided image synthesis has shown appealing performance on adapting a pre-trained source-domain generator to an unseen target domain. It does not require any target-domain samples but only the textual domain labels. The training is highly efficient, e.g., a few minutes. However, existing methods still have some limitations in the quality of generated images and may suffer from the mode collapse issue. A key reason is that a fixed adaptation direction is applied for all cross-domain image pairs, which leads to identical supervision signals. To address this issue, we propose an Image-specific Prompt Learning (IPL) method, which learns specific prompt vectors for each source-domain image. This produces a more precise adaptation direction for every cross-domain image pair, endowing the target-domain generator with greatly enhanced flexibility. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations on various domains demonstrate that IPL effectively improves the quality and diversity of synthesized images and alleviates the mode collapse. Moreover, IPL is independent of the structure of the generative model, such as generative adversarial networks or diffusion models. Code is available at https://github.com/Picsart-AI-Research/IPL-Zero-Shot-Generative-Model-Adaptation. 

**Title:** From Saliency to DINO: Saliency-guided Vision Transformer for Few-shot  Keypoint Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03140

**Abstract:** Unlike current deep keypoint detectors that are trained to recognize limited number of body parts, few-shot keypoint detection (FSKD) attempts to localize any keypoints, including novel or base keypoints, depending on the reference samples. FSKD requires the semantically meaningful relations for keypoint similarity learning to overcome the ubiquitous noise and ambiguous local patterns. One rescue comes with vision transformer (ViT) as it captures long-range relations well. However, ViT may model irrelevant features outside of the region of interest due to the global attention matrix, thus degrading similarity learning between support and query features. In this paper, we present a novel saliency-guided vision transformer, dubbed SalViT, for few-shot keypoint detection. Our SalViT enjoys a uniquely designed masked self-attention and a morphology learner, where the former introduces saliency map as a soft mask to constrain the self-attention on foregrounds, while the latter leverages the so-called power normalization to adjust morphology of saliency map, realizing ``dynamically changing receptive field''. Moreover, as salinecy detectors add computations, we show that attentive masks of DINO transformer can replace saliency. On top of SalViT, we also investigate i) transductive FSKD that enhances keypoint representations with unlabelled data and ii) FSKD under occlusions. We show that our model performs well on five public datasets and achieves ~10% PCK higher than the normally trained model under severe occlusions. 

**Title:** Zero-Shot Next-Item Recommendation using Large Pretrained Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03153

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive zero-shot performance in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, demonstrating their capabilities for inference without training examples. Despite their success, no research has yet explored the potential of LLMs to perform next-item recommendations in the zero-shot setting. We have identified two major challenges that must be addressed to enable LLMs to act effectively as recommenders. First, the recommendation space can be extremely large for LLMs, and LLMs do not know about the target user's past interacted items and preferences. To address this gap, we propose a prompting strategy called Zero-Shot Next-Item Recommendation (NIR) prompting that directs LLMs to make next-item recommendations. Specifically, the NIR-based strategy involves using an external module to generate candidate items based on user-filtering or item-filtering. Our strategy incorporates a 3-step prompting that guides GPT-3 to carry subtasks that capture the user's preferences, select representative previously watched movies, and recommend a ranked list of 10 movies. We evaluate the proposed approach using GPT-3 on MovieLens 100K dataset and show that it achieves strong zero-shot performance, even outperforming some strong sequential recommendation models trained on the entire training dataset. These promising results highlight the ample research opportunities to use LLMs as recommenders. The code can be found at https://github.com/AGI-Edgerunners/LLM-Next-Item-Rec. 

**Title:** CoT-MAE v2: Contextual Masked Auto-Encoder with Multi-view Modeling for  Passage Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03158

**Abstract:** Growing techniques have been emerging to improve the performance of passage retrieval. As an effective representation bottleneck pretraining technique, the contextual masked auto-encoder utilizes contextual embedding to assist in the reconstruction of passages. However, it only uses a single auto-encoding pre-task for dense representation pre-training. This study brings multi-view modeling to the contextual masked auto-encoder. Firstly, multi-view representation utilizes both dense and sparse vectors as multi-view representations, aiming to capture sentence semantics from different aspects. Moreover, multiview decoding paradigm utilizes both autoencoding and auto-regressive decoders in representation bottleneck pre-training, aiming to provide both reconstructive and generative signals for better contextual representation pretraining. We refer to this multi-view pretraining method as CoT-MAE v2. Through extensive experiments, we show that CoT-MAE v2 is effective and robust on large-scale passage retrieval benchmarks and out-of-domain zero-shot benchmarks. 

**Title:** SketchFFusion: Sketch-guided image editing with diffusion model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03174

**Abstract:** Sketch-guided image editing aims to achieve local fine-tuning of the image based on the sketch information provided by the user, while maintaining the original status of the unedited areas. Due to the high cost of acquiring human sketches, previous works mostly relied on edge maps as a substitute for sketches, but sketches possess more rich structural information. In this paper, we propose a sketch generation scheme that can preserve the main contours of an image and closely adhere to the actual sketch style drawn by the user. Simultaneously, current image editing methods often face challenges such as image distortion, training cost, and loss of fine details in the sketch. To address these limitations, We propose a conditional diffusion model (SketchFFusion) based on the sketch structure vector. We evaluate the generative performance of our model and demonstrate that it outperforms existing methods. 

**Title:** Micron-BERT: BERT-based Facial Micro-Expression Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03195

**Abstract:** Micro-expression recognition is one of the most challenging topics in affective computing. It aims to recognize tiny facial movements difficult for humans to perceive in a brief period, i.e., 0.25 to 0.5 seconds. Recent advances in pre-training deep Bidirectional Transformers (BERT) have significantly improved self-supervised learning tasks in computer vision. However, the standard BERT in vision problems is designed to learn only from full images or videos, and the architecture cannot accurately detect details of facial micro-expressions. This paper presents Micron-BERT ($\mu$-BERT), a novel approach to facial micro-expression recognition. The proposed method can automatically capture these movements in an unsupervised manner based on two key ideas. First, we employ Diagonal Micro-Attention (DMA) to detect tiny differences between two frames. Second, we introduce a new Patch of Interest (PoI) module to localize and highlight micro-expression interest regions and simultaneously reduce noisy backgrounds and distractions. By incorporating these components into an end-to-end deep network, the proposed $\mu$-BERT significantly outperforms all previous work in various micro-expression tasks. $\mu$-BERT can be trained on a large-scale unlabeled dataset, i.e., up to 8 million images, and achieves high accuracy on new unseen facial micro-expression datasets. Empirical experiments show $\mu$-BERT consistently outperforms state-of-the-art performance on four micro-expression benchmarks, including SAMM, CASME II, SMIC, and CASME3, by significant margins. Code will be available at \url{https://github.com/uark-cviu/Micron-BERT} 

**Title:** Face Animation with an Attribute-Guided Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03199

**Abstract:** Face animation has achieved much progress in computer vision. However, prevailing GAN-based methods suffer from unnatural distortions and artifacts due to sophisticated motion deformation. In this paper, we propose a Face Animation framework with an attribute-guided Diffusion Model (FADM), which is the first work to exploit the superior modeling capacity of diffusion models for photo-realistic talking-head generation. To mitigate the uncontrollable synthesis effect of the diffusion model, we design an Attribute-Guided Conditioning Network (AGCN) to adaptively combine the coarse animation features and 3D face reconstruction results, which can incorporate appearance and motion conditions into the diffusion process. These specific designs help FADM rectify unnatural artifacts and distortions, and also enrich high-fidelity facial details through iterative diffusion refinements with accurate animation attributes. FADM can flexibly and effectively improve existing animation videos. Extensive experiments on widely used talking-head benchmarks validate the effectiveness of FADM over prior arts. 

**Title:** Cerebras-GPT: Open Compute-Optimal Language Models Trained on the  Cerebras Wafer-Scale Cluster  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03208

**Abstract:** We study recent research advances that improve large language models through efficient pre-training and scaling, and open datasets and tools. We combine these advances to introduce Cerebras-GPT, a family of open compute-optimal language models scaled from 111M to 13B parameters. We train Cerebras-GPT models on the Eleuther Pile dataset following DeepMind Chinchilla scaling rules for efficient pre-training (highest accuracy for a given compute budget). We characterize the predictable power-law scaling and compare Cerebras-GPT with other publicly-available models to show all Cerebras-GPT models have state-of-the-art training efficiency on both pre-training and downstream objectives. We describe our learnings including how Maximal Update Parameterization ($\mu$P) can further improve large model scaling, improving accuracy and hyperparameter predictability at scale. We release our pre-trained models and code, making this paper the first open and reproducible work comparing compute-optimal model scaling to models trained on fixed dataset sizes. Cerebras-GPT models are available on HuggingFace: https://huggingface.co/cerebras. 

**Title:** FedBot: Enhancing Privacy in Chatbots with Federated Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03228

**Abstract:** Chatbots are mainly data-driven and usually based on utterances that might be sensitive. However, training deep learning models on shared data can violate user privacy. Such issues have commonly existed in chatbots since their inception. In the literature, there have been many approaches to deal with privacy, such as differential privacy and secure multi-party computation, but most of them need to have access to users' data. In this context, Federated Learning (FL) aims to protect data privacy through distributed learning methods that keep the data in its location. This paper presents Fedbot, a proof-of-concept (POC) privacy-preserving chatbot that leverages large-scale customer support data. The POC combines Deep Bidirectional Transformer models and federated learning algorithms to protect customer data privacy during collaborative model training. The results of the proof-of-concept showcase the potential for privacy-preserving chatbots to transform the customer support industry by delivering personalized and efficient customer service that meets data privacy regulations and legal requirements. Furthermore, the system is specifically designed to improve its performance and accuracy over time by leveraging its ability to learn from previous interactions. 

**Title:** Inst-Inpaint: Instructing to Remove Objects with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03246

**Abstract:** Image inpainting task refers to erasing unwanted pixels from images and filling them in a semantically consistent and realistic way. Traditionally, the pixels that are wished to be erased are defined with binary masks. From the application point of view, a user needs to generate the masks for the objects they would like to remove which can be time-consuming and prone to errors. In this work, we are interested in an image inpainting algorithm that estimates which object to be removed based on natural language input and also removes it, simultaneously. For this purpose, first, we construct a dataset named GQA-Inpaint for this task which will be released soon. Second, we present a novel inpainting framework, Inst-Inpaint, that can remove objects from images based on the instructions given as text prompts. We set various GAN and diffusion-based baselines and run experiments on synthetic and real image datasets. We compare methods with different evaluation metrics that measure the quality and accuracy of the models and show significant quantitative and qualitative improvements. 

**Title:** When do you need Chain-of-Thought Prompting for ChatGPT?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03262

**Abstract:** Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting can effectively elicit complex multi-step reasoning from Large Language Models~(LLMs). For example, by simply adding CoT instruction ``Let's think step-by-step'' to each input query of MultiArith dataset, GPT-3's accuracy can be improved from 17.7\% to 78.7\%. However, it is not clear whether CoT is still effective on more recent instruction finetuned (IFT) LLMs such as ChatGPT. Surprisingly, on ChatGPT, CoT is no longer effective for certain tasks such as arithmetic reasoning while still keeping effective on other reasoning tasks. Moreover, on the former tasks, ChatGPT usually achieves the best performance and can generate CoT even without being instructed to do so. Hence, it is plausible that ChatGPT has already been trained on these tasks with CoT and thus memorized the instruction so it implicitly follows such an instruction when applied to the same queries, even without CoT. Our analysis reflects a potential risk of overfitting/bias toward instructions introduced in IFT, which becomes more common in training LLMs. In addition, it indicates possible leakage of the pretraining recipe, e.g., one can verify whether a dataset and instruction were used in training ChatGPT. Our experiments report new baseline results of ChatGPT on a variety of reasoning tasks and shed novel insights into LLM's profiling, instruction memorization, and pretraining dataset leakage. 

**Title:** Neural Fields meet Explicit Geometric Representation for Inverse  Rendering of Urban Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03266

**Abstract:** Reconstruction and intrinsic decomposition of scenes from captured imagery would enable many applications such as relighting and virtual object insertion. Recent NeRF based methods achieve impressive fidelity of 3D reconstruction, but bake the lighting and shadows into the radiance field, while mesh-based methods that facilitate intrinsic decomposition through differentiable rendering have not yet scaled to the complexity and scale of outdoor scenes. We present a novel inverse rendering framework for large urban scenes capable of jointly reconstructing the scene geometry, spatially-varying materials, and HDR lighting from a set of posed RGB images with optional depth. Specifically, we use a neural field to account for the primary rays, and use an explicit mesh (reconstructed from the underlying neural field) for modeling secondary rays that produce higher-order lighting effects such as cast shadows. By faithfully disentangling complex geometry and materials from lighting effects, our method enables photorealistic relighting with specular and shadow effects on several outdoor datasets. Moreover, it supports physics-based scene manipulations such as virtual object insertion with ray-traced shadow casting. 

**Title:** Making AI Less "Thirsty": Uncovering and Addressing the Secret Water  Footprint of AI Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03271

**Abstract:** The growing carbon footprint of artificial intelligence (AI) models, especially large ones such as GPT-3 and GPT-4, has been undergoing public scrutiny. Unfortunately, however, the equally important and enormous water footprint of AI models has remained under the radar. For example, training GPT-3 in Microsoft's state-of-the-art U.S. data centers can directly consume 700,000 liters of clean freshwater (enough for producing 370 BMW cars or 320 Tesla electric vehicles) and the water consumption would have been tripled if training were done in Microsoft's Asian data centers, but such information has been kept as a secret. This is extremely concerning, as freshwater scarcity has become one of the most pressing challenges shared by all of us in the wake of the rapidly growing population, depleting water resources, and aging water infrastructures. To respond to the global water challenges, AI models can, and also should, take social responsibility and lead by example by addressing their own water footprint. In this paper, we provide a principled methodology to estimate fine-grained water footprint of AI models, and also discuss the unique spatial-temporal diversities of AI models' runtime water efficiency. Finally, we highlight the necessity of holistically addressing water footprint along with carbon footprint to enable truly sustainable AI. 

**Title:** Instruction Tuning with GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03277

**Abstract:** Prior work has shown that finetuning large language models (LLMs) using machine-generated instruction-following data enables such models to achieve remarkable zero-shot capabilities on new tasks, and no human-written instructions are needed. In this paper, we present the first attempt to use GPT-4 to generate instruction-following data for LLM finetuning. Our early experiments on instruction-tuned LLaMA models show that the 52K English and Chinese instruction-following data generated by GPT-4 leads to superior zero-shot performance on new tasks to the instruction-following data generated by previous state-of-the-art models. We also collect feedback and comparison data from GPT-4 to enable a comprehensive evaluation and reward model training. We make our data generated using GPT-4 as well as our codebase publicly available. 

**Title:** Do the Rewards Justify the Means? Measuring Trade-Offs Between Rewards  and Ethical Behavior in the MACHIAVELLI Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03279

**Abstract:** Artificial agents have traditionally been trained to maximize reward, which may incentivize power-seeking and deception, analogous to how next-token prediction in language models (LMs) may incentivize toxicity. So do agents naturally learn to be Machiavellian? And how do we measure these behaviors in general-purpose models such as GPT-4? Towards answering these questions, we introduce MACHIAVELLI, a benchmark of 134 Choose-Your-Own-Adventure games containing over half a million rich, diverse scenarios that center on social decision-making. Scenario labeling is automated with LMs, which are more performant than human annotators. We mathematize dozens of harmful behaviors and use our annotations to evaluate agents' tendencies to be power-seeking, cause disutility, and commit ethical violations. We observe some tension between maximizing reward and behaving ethically. To improve this trade-off, we investigate LM-based methods to steer agents' towards less harmful behaviors. Our results show that agents can both act competently and morally, so concrete progress can currently be made in machine ethics--designing agents that are Pareto improvements in both safety and capabilities. 

**Title:** LANe: Lighting-Aware Neural Fields for Compositional Scene Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03280

**Abstract:** Neural fields have recently enjoyed great success in representing and rendering 3D scenes. However, most state-of-the-art implicit representations model static or dynamic scenes as a whole, with minor variations. Existing work on learning disentangled world and object neural fields do not consider the problem of composing objects into different world neural fields in a lighting-aware manner. We present Lighting-Aware Neural Field (LANe) for the compositional synthesis of driving scenes in a physically consistent manner. Specifically, we learn a scene representation that disentangles the static background and transient elements into a world-NeRF and class-specific object-NeRFs to allow compositional synthesis of multiple objects in the scene. Furthermore, we explicitly designed both the world and object models to handle lighting variation, which allows us to compose objects into scenes with spatially varying lighting. This is achieved by constructing a light field of the scene and using it in conjunction with a learned shader to modulate the appearance of the object NeRFs. We demonstrate the performance of our model on a synthetic dataset of diverse lighting conditions rendered with the CARLA simulator, as well as a novel real-world dataset of cars collected at different times of the day. Our approach shows that it outperforms state-of-the-art compositional scene synthesis on the challenging dataset setup, via composing object-NeRFs learned from one scene into an entirely different scene whilst still respecting the lighting variations in the novel scene. For more results, please visit our project website https://lane-composition.github.io/. 

**Title:** Diffusion Models as Masked Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03283

**Abstract:** There has been a longstanding belief that generation can facilitate a true understanding of visual data. In line with this, we revisit generatively pre-training visual representations in light of recent interest in denoising diffusion models. While directly pre-training with diffusion models does not produce strong representations, we condition diffusion models on masked input and formulate diffusion models as masked autoencoders (DiffMAE). Our approach is capable of (i) serving as a strong initialization for downstream recognition tasks, (ii) conducting high-quality image inpainting, and (iii) being effortlessly extended to video where it produces state-of-the-art classification accuracy. We further perform a comprehensive study on the pros and cons of design choices and build connections between diffusion models and masked autoencoders. 

**Title:** Revolutionizing Single Cell Analysis: The Power of Large Language Models  for Cell Type Annotation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02697

**Abstract:** In recent years, single cell RNA sequencing has become a widely used technique to study cellular diversity and function. However, accurately annotating cell types from single cell data has been a challenging task, as it requires extensive knowledge of cell biology and gene function. The emergence of large language models such as ChatGPT and New Bing in 2023 has revolutionized this process by integrating the scientific literature and providing accurate annotations of cell types. This breakthrough enables researchers to conduct literature reviews more efficiently and accurately, and can potentially uncover new insights into cell type annotation. By using ChatGPT to annotate single cell data, we can relate rare cell type to their function and reveal specific differentiation trajectories of cell subtypes that were previously overlooked. This can have important applications in understanding cancer progression, mammalian development, and stem cell differentiation, and can potentially lead to the discovery of key cells that interrupt the differentiation pathway and solve key problems in the life sciences. Overall, the future of cell type annotation in single cell data looks promising and the Large Language model will be an important milestone in the history of single cell analysis. 

**Title:** Zero-shot Medical Image Translation via Frequency-Guided Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02742

**Abstract:** Recently, the diffusion model has emerged as a superior generative model that can produce high-quality images with excellent realism. There is a growing interest in applying diffusion models to image translation tasks. However, for medical image translation, the existing diffusion models are deficient in accurately retaining structural information since the structure details of source domain images are lost during the forward diffusion process and cannot be fully recovered through learned reverse diffusion, while the integrity of anatomical structures is extremely important in medical images. Training and conditioning diffusion models using paired source and target images with matching anatomy can help. However, such paired data are very difficult and costly to obtain, and may also reduce the robustness of the developed model to out-of-distribution testing data. We propose a frequency-guided diffusion model (FGDM) that employs frequency-domain filters to guide the diffusion model for structure-preserving image translation. Based on its design, FGDM allows zero-shot learning, as it can be trained solely on the data from the target domain, and used directly for source-to-target domain translation without any exposure to the source-domain data during training. We trained FGDM solely on the head-and-neck CT data, and evaluated it on both head-and-neck and lung cone-beam CT (CBCT)-to-CT translation tasks. FGDM outperformed the state-of-the-art methods (GAN-based, VAE-based, and diffusion-based) in all metrics, showing its significant advantages in zero-shot medical image translation. 

**Title:** MethaneMapper: Spectral Absorption aware Hyperspectral Transformer for  Methane Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02767

**Abstract:** Methane (CH$_4$) is the chief contributor to global climate change. Recent Airborne Visible-Infrared Imaging Spectrometer-Next Generation (AVIRIS-NG) has been very useful in quantitative mapping of methane emissions. Existing methods for analyzing this data are sensitive to local terrain conditions, often require manual inspection from domain experts, prone to significant error and hence are not scalable. To address these challenges, we propose a novel end-to-end spectral absorption wavelength aware transformer network, MethaneMapper, to detect and quantify the emissions. MethaneMapper introduces two novel modules that help to locate the most relevant methane plume regions in the spectral domain and uses them to localize these accurately. Thorough evaluation shows that MethaneMapper achieves 0.63 mAP in detection and reduces the model size (by 5x) compared to the current state of the art. In addition, we also introduce a large-scale dataset of methane plume segmentation mask for over 1200 AVIRIS-NG flight lines from 2015-2022. It contains over 4000 methane plume sites. Our dataset will provide researchers the opportunity to develop and advance new methods for tackling this challenging green-house gas detection problem with significant broader social impact. Dataset and source code are public 

**Title:** Longitudinal Multimodal Transformer Integrating Imaging and Latent  Clinical Signatures From Routine EHRs for Pulmonary Nodule Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02836

**Abstract:** The accuracy of predictive models for solitary pulmonary nodule (SPN) diagnosis can be greatly increased by incorporating repeat imaging and medical context, such as electronic health records (EHRs). However, clinically routine modalities such as imaging and diagnostic codes can be asynchronous and irregularly sampled over different time scales which are obstacles to longitudinal multimodal learning. In this work, we propose a transformer-based multimodal strategy to integrate repeat imaging with longitudinal clinical signatures from routinely collected EHRs for SPN classification. We perform unsupervised disentanglement of latent clinical signatures and leverage time-distance scaled self-attention to jointly learn from clinical signatures expressions and chest computed tomography (CT) scans. Our classifier is pretrained on 2,668 scans from a public dataset and 1,149 subjects with longitudinal chest CTs, billing codes, medications, and laboratory tests from EHRs of our home institution. Evaluation on 227 subjects with challenging SPNs revealed a significant AUC improvement over a longitudinal multimodal baseline (0.824 vs 0.752 AUC), as well as improvements over a single cross-section multimodal scenario (0.809 AUC) and a longitudinal imaging-only scenario (0.741 AUC). This work demonstrates significant advantages with a novel approach for co-learning longitudinal imaging and non-imaging phenotypes with transformers. 

**Title:** GA-HQS: MRI reconstruction via a generically accelerated unfolding  approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02883

**Abstract:** Deep unfolding networks (DUNs) are the foremost methods in the realm of compressed sensing MRI, as they can employ learnable networks to facilitate interpretable forward-inference operators. However, several daunting issues still exist, including the heavy dependency on the first-order optimization algorithms, the insufficient information fusion mechanisms, and the limitation of capturing long-range relationships. To address the issues, we propose a Generically Accelerated Half-Quadratic Splitting (GA-HQS) algorithm that incorporates second-order gradient information and pyramid attention modules for the delicate fusion of inputs at the pixel level. Moreover, a multi-scale split transformer is also designed to enhance the global feature representation. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that our method surpasses previous ones on single-coil MRI acceleration tasks. 

**Title:** Multi-label classification of open-ended questions with BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.02945

**Abstract:** Open-ended questions in surveys are valuable because they do not constrain the respondent's answer, thereby avoiding biases. However, answers to open-ended questions are text data which are harder to analyze. Traditionally, answers were manually classified as specified in the coding manual. Most of the effort to automate coding has gone into the easier problem of single label prediction, where answers are classified into a single code. However, open-ends that require multi-label classification, i.e., that are assigned multiple codes, occur frequently. This paper focuses on multi-label classification of text answers to open-ended survey questions in social science surveys. We evaluate the performance of the transformer-based architecture BERT for the German language in comparison to traditional multi-label algorithms (Binary Relevance, Label Powerset, ECC) in a German social science survey, the GLES Panel (N=17,584, 55 labels). We find that classification with BERT (forcing at least one label) has the smallest 0/1 loss (13.1%) among methods considered (18.9%-21.6%). As expected, it is much easier to correctly predict answer texts that correspond to a single label (7.1% loss) than those that correspond to multiple labels ($\sim$50% loss). Because BERT predicts zero labels for only 1.5% of the answers, forcing at least one label, while recommended, ultimately does not lower the 0/1 loss by much. Our work has important implications for social scientists: 1) We have shown multi-label classification with BERT works in the German language for open-ends. 2) For mildly multi-label classification tasks, the loss now appears small enough to allow for fully automatic classification (as compared to semi-automatic approaches). 3) Multi-label classification with BERT requires only a single model. The leading competitor, ECC, iterates through individual single label predictions. 

