<html>
        <body>
        <p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: AI model GPT-3 (dis)informs us better than humans<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.11924<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Artificial intelligence is changing the way we create and evaluate information, and this is happening during an infodemic, which has been having dramatic effects on global health. In this paper we evaluate whether recruited individuals can distinguish disinformation from accurate information, structured in the form of tweets, and determine whether a tweet is organic or synthetic, i.e., whether it has been written by a Twitter user or by the AI model GPT-3. Our results show that GPT-3 is a double-edge sword, which, in comparison with humans, can produce accurate information that is easier to understand, but can also produce more compelling disinformation. We also show that humans cannot distinguish tweets generated by GPT-3 and real Twitter users. Starting from our results, we reflect on the dangers of AI for disinformation, and on how we can improve information campaigns to benefit global health. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: On the Connection Between MPNN and Graph Transformer<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.11956<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Graph Transformer (GT) recently has emerged as a new paradigm of graph learning algorithms, outperforming the previously popular Message Passing Neural Network (MPNN) on multiple benchmarks. Previous work (Kim et al., 2022) shows that with proper position embedding, GT can approximate MPNN arbitrarily well, implying that GT is at least as powerful as MPNN. In this paper, we study the inverse connection and show that MPNN with virtual node (VN), a commonly used heuristic with little theoretical understanding, is powerful enough to arbitrarily approximate the self-attention layer of GT. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: FRA: A novel Face Representation Augmentation algorithm for face  recognition<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.11986<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: A low amount of training data for many state-of-the-art deep learning-based Face Recognition (FR) systems causes a marked deterioration in their performance. Although a considerable amount of research has addressed this issue by inventing new data augmentation techniques, using either input space transformations or Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) for feature space augmentations, these techniques have yet to satisfy expectations. In this paper, we propose a novel method, named the Face Representation Augmentation (FRA) algorithm, for augmenting face datasets. To the best of our knowledge, FRA is the first method that shifts its focus towards manipulating the face embeddings generated by any face representation learning algorithm in order to generate new embeddings representing the same identity and facial emotion but with an altered posture. Extensive experiments conducted in this study convince the efficacy of our methodology and its power to provide noiseless, completely new facial representations to improve the training procedure of any FR algorithm. Therefore, FRA is able to help the recent state-of-the-art FR methods by providing more data for training FR systems. The proposed method, using experiments conducted on the Karolinska Directed Emotional Faces (KDEF) dataset, improves the identity classification accuracies by 9.52 %, 10.04 %, and 16.60 %, in comparison with the base models of MagFace, ArcFace, and CosFace, respectively. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Minimizing Trajectory Curvature of ODE-based Generative Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12003<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recent ODE/SDE-based generative models, such as diffusion models and flow matching, define a generative process as a time reversal of a fixed forward process. Even though these models show impressive performance on large-scale datasets, numerical simulation requires multiple evaluations of a neural network, leading to a slow sampling speed. We attribute the reason to the high curvature of the learned generative trajectories, as it is directly related to the truncation error of a numerical solver. Based on the relationship between the forward process and the curvature, here we present an efficient method of training the forward process to minimize the curvature of generative trajectories without any ODE/SDE simulation. Experiments show that our method achieves a lower curvature than previous models and, therefore, decreased sampling costs while maintaining competitive performance. Code is available at https://github.com/sangyun884/fast-ode. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Understanding the Effectiveness of Very Large Language Models on Dialog  Evaluation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12004<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Language models have steadily increased in size over the past few years. They achieve a high level of performance on various natural language processing (NLP) tasks such as question answering and summarization. Large language models (LLMs) have been used for generation and can now output human-like text. Due to this, there are other downstream tasks in the realm of dialog that can now harness the LLMs' language understanding capabilities. Dialog evaluation is one task that this paper will explore. It concentrates on prompting with LLMs: BLOOM, OPT, GPT-3, Flan-T5, InstructDial and TNLGv2. The paper shows that the choice of datasets used for training a model contributes to how well it performs on a task as well as on how the prompt should be structured. Specifically, the more diverse and relevant the group of datasets that a model is trained on, the better dialog evaluation performs. This paper also investigates how the number of examples in the prompt and the type of example selection used affect the model's performance. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Understanding INT4 Quantization for Transformer Models: Latency Speedup,  Composability, and Failure Cases<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12017<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Improving the deployment efficiency of transformer-based language models has been challenging given their high computation and memory cost. While INT8 quantization has recently been shown to be effective in reducing both the memory cost and latency while preserving model accuracy, it remains unclear whether we can leverage INT4 (which doubles peak hardware throughput) to achieve further latency improvement. In this work, we fully investigate the feasibility of using INT4 quantization for language models, and show that using INT4 introduces no or negligible accuracy degradation for encoder-only and encoder-decoder models, but causes a significant accuracy drop for decoder-only models. To materialize the performance gain using INT4, we develop a highly-optimized end-to-end INT4 encoder inference pipeline supporting different quantization strategies. Our INT4 pipeline is $8.5\times$ faster for latency-oriented scenarios and up to $3\times$ for throughput-oriented scenarios compared to the inference of FP16, and improves the SOTA BERT INT8 performance from FasterTransformer by up to $1.7\times$. We also provide insights into the failure cases when applying INT4 to decoder-only models, and further explore the compatibility of INT4 quantization with other compression techniques, like pruning and layer reduction. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Cross-Architectural Positive Pairs improve the effectiveness of  Self-Supervised Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12025<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Existing self-supervised techniques have extreme computational requirements and suffer a substantial drop in performance with a reduction in batch size or pretraining epochs. This paper presents Cross Architectural - Self Supervision (CASS), a novel self-supervised learning approach that leverages Transformer and CNN simultaneously. Compared to the existing state-of-the-art self-supervised learning approaches, we empirically show that CASS-trained CNNs and Transformers across four diverse datasets gained an average of 3.8% with 1% labeled data, 5.9% with 10% labeled data, and 10.13% with 100% labeled data while taking 69% less time. We also show that CASS is much more robust to changes in batch size and training epochs than existing state-of-the-art self-supervised learning approaches. We have open-sourced our code at https://github.com/pranavsinghps1/CASS. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Context Matters: A Strategy to Pre-train Language Model for Science  Education<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12031<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: This study aims at improving the performance of scoring student responses in science education automatically. BERT-based language models have shown significant superiority over traditional NLP models in various language-related tasks. However, science writing of students, including argumentation and explanation, is domain-specific. In addition, the language used by students is different from the language in journals and Wikipedia, which are training sources of BERT and its existing variants. All these suggest that a domain-specific model pre-trained using science education data may improve model performance. However, the ideal type of data to contextualize pre-trained language model and improve the performance in automatically scoring student written responses remains unclear. Therefore, we employ different data in this study to contextualize both BERT and SciBERT models and compare their performance on automatic scoring of assessment tasks for scientific argumentation. We use three datasets to pre-train the model: 1) journal articles in science education, 2) a large dataset of students' written responses (sample size over 50,000), and 3) a small dataset of students' written responses of scientific argumentation tasks. Our experimental results show that in-domain training corpora constructed from science questions and responses improve language model performance on a wide variety of downstream tasks. Our study confirms the effectiveness of continual pre-training on domain-specific data in the education domain and demonstrates a generalizable strategy for automating science education tasks with high accuracy. We plan to release our data and SciEdBERT models for public use and community engagement. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Making Reconstruction-based Method Great Again for Video Anomaly  Detection<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12048<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Anomaly detection in videos is a significant yet challenging problem. Previous approaches based on deep neural networks employ either reconstruction-based or prediction-based approaches. Nevertheless, existing reconstruction-based methods 1) rely on old-fashioned convolutional autoencoders and are poor at modeling temporal dependency; 2) are prone to overfit the training samples, leading to indistinguishable reconstruction errors of normal and abnormal frames during the inference phase. To address such issues, firstly, we get inspiration from transformer and propose ${\textbf S}$patio-${\textbf T}$emporal ${\textbf A}$uto-${\textbf T}$rans-${\textbf E}$ncoder, dubbed as $\textbf{STATE}$, as a new autoencoder model for enhanced consecutive frame reconstruction. Our STATE is equipped with a specifically designed learnable convolutional attention module for efficient temporal learning and reasoning. Secondly, we put forward a novel reconstruction-based input perturbation technique during testing to further differentiate anomalous frames. With the same perturbation magnitude, the testing reconstruction error of the normal frames lowers more than that of the abnormal frames, which contributes to mitigating the overfitting problem of reconstruction. Owing to the high relevance of the frame abnormality and the objects in the frame, we conduct object-level reconstruction using both the raw frame and the corresponding optical flow patches. Finally, the anomaly score is designed based on the combination of the raw and motion reconstruction errors using perturbed inputs. Extensive experiments on benchmark video anomaly detection datasets demonstrate that our approach outperforms previous reconstruction-based methods by a notable margin, and achieves state-of-the-art anomaly detection performance consistently. The code is available at https://github.com/wyzjack/MRMGA4VAD. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Aerial Image Object Detection With Vision Transformer Detector (ViTDet)<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12058<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The past few years have seen an increased interest in aerial image object detection due to its critical value to large-scale geo-scientific research like environmental studies, urban planning, and intelligence monitoring. However, the task is very challenging due to the birds-eye view perspective, complex backgrounds, large and various image sizes, different appearances of objects, and the scarcity of well-annotated datasets. Recent advances in computer vision have shown promise tackling the challenge. Specifically, Vision Transformer Detector (ViTDet) was proposed to extract multi-scale features for object detection. The empirical study shows that ViTDet's simple design achieves good performance on natural scene images and can be easily embedded into any detector architecture. To date, ViTDet's potential benefit to challenging aerial image object detection has not been explored. Therefore, in our study, 25 experiments were carried out to evaluate the effectiveness of ViTDet for aerial image object detection on three well-known datasets: Airbus Aircraft, RarePlanes, and Dataset of Object DeTection in Aerial images (DOTA). Our results show that ViTDet can consistently outperform its convolutional neural network counterparts on horizontal bounding box (HBB) object detection by a large margin (up to 17% on average precision) and that it achieves the competitive performance for oriented bounding box (OBB) object detection. Our results also establish a baseline for future research. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Truth Machines: Synthesizing Veracity in AI Language Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12066<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: As AI technologies are rolled out into healthcare, academia, human resources, law, and a multitude of other domains, they become de-facto arbiters of truth. But truth is highly contested, with many different definitions and approaches. This article discusses the struggle for truth in AI systems and the general responses to date. It then investigates the production of truth in InstructGPT, a large language model, highlighting how data harvesting, model architectures, and social feedback mechanisms weave together disparate understandings of veracity. It conceptualizes this performance as an operationalization of truth, where distinct, often conflicting claims are smoothly synthesized and confidently presented into truth-statements. We argue that these same logics and inconsistencies play out in Instruct's successor, ChatGPT, reiterating truth as a non-trivial problem. We suggest that enriching sociality and thickening "reality" are two promising vectors for enhancing the truth-evaluating capacities of future language models. We conclude, however, by stepping back to consider AI truth-telling as a social practice: what kind of "truth" do we as listeners desire? <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Physics-Inspired Protein Encoder Pre-Training via Siamese  Sequence-Structure Diffusion Trajectory Prediction<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12068<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Pre-training methods on proteins are recently gaining interest, leveraging either protein sequences or structures, while modeling their joint energy landscape is largely unexplored. In this work, inspired by the success of denoising diffusion models, we propose the DiffPreT approach to pre-train a protein encoder by sequence-structure multimodal diffusion modeling. DiffPreT guides the encoder to recover the native protein sequences and structures from the perturbed ones along the multimodal diffusion trajectory, which acquires the joint distribution of sequences and structures. Considering the essential protein conformational variations, we enhance DiffPreT by a physics-inspired method called Siamese Diffusion Trajectory Prediction (SiamDiff) to capture the correlation between different conformers of a protein. SiamDiff attains this goal by maximizing the mutual information between representations of diffusion trajectories of structurally-correlated conformers. We study the effectiveness of DiffPreT and SiamDiff on both atom- and residue-level structure-based protein understanding tasks. Experimental results show that the performance of DiffPreT is consistently competitive on all tasks, and SiamDiff achieves new state-of-the-art performance, considering the mean ranks on all tasks. The source code will be released upon acceptance. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Towards Equitable Representation in Text-to-Image Synthesis Models with  the Cross-Cultural Understanding Benchmark (CCUB) Dataset<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12073<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: It has been shown that accurate representation in media improves the well-being of the people who consume it. By contrast, inaccurate representations can negatively affect viewers and lead to harmful perceptions of other cultures. To achieve inclusive representation in generated images, we propose a culturally-aware priming approach for text-to-image synthesis using a small but culturally curated dataset that we collected, known here as Cross-Cultural Understanding Benchmark (CCUB) Dataset, to fight the bias prevalent in giant datasets. Our proposed approach is comprised of two fine-tuning techniques: (1) Adding visual context via fine-tuning a pre-trained text-to-image synthesis model, Stable Diffusion, on the CCUB text-image pairs, and (2) Adding semantic context via automated prompt engineering using the fine-tuned large language model, GPT-3, trained on our CCUB culturally-aware text data. CCUB dataset is curated and our approach is evaluated by people who have a personal relationship with that particular culture. Our experiments indicate that priming using both text and image is effective in improving the cultural relevance and decreasing the offensiveness of generated images while maintaining quality. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: APAC: Authorized Probability-controlled Actor-Critic For Offline  Reinforcement Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12130<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Due to the inability to interact with the environment, offline reinforcement learning (RL) methods face the challenge of estimating the Out-of-Distribution (OOD) points. Most existing methods exclude the OOD areas or restrict the value of $Q$ function. However, these methods either are over-conservative or suffer from model uncertainty prediction. In this paper, we propose an authorized probabilistic-control policy learning (APAC) method. The proposed method learns the distribution characteristics of the feasible states/actions by utilizing the flow-GAN model. Specifically, APAC avoids taking action in the low probability density region of behavior policy, while allows exploration in the authorized high probability density region. Theoretical proofs are provided to justify the advantage of APAC. Empirically, APAC outperforms existing alternatives on a variety of simulated tasks, and yields higher expected returns. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Multilingual Sentence Transformer as A Multilingual Word Aligner<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12140<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Multilingual pretrained language models (mPLMs) have shown their effectiveness in multilingual word alignment induction. However, these methods usually start from mBERT or XLM-R. In this paper, we investigate whether multilingual sentence Transformer LaBSE is a strong multilingual word aligner. This idea is non-trivial as LaBSE is trained to learn language-agnostic sentence-level embeddings, while the alignment extraction task requires the more fine-grained word-level embeddings to be language-agnostic. We demonstrate that the vanilla LaBSE outperforms other mPLMs currently used in the alignment task, and then propose to finetune LaBSE on parallel corpus for further improvement. Experiment results on seven language pairs show that our best aligner outperforms previous state-of-the-art models of all varieties. In addition, our aligner supports different language pairs in a single model, and even achieves new state-of-the-art on zero-shot language pairs that does not appear in the finetuning process. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: What Decreases Editing Capability? Domain-Specific Hybrid Refinement for  Improved GAN Inversion<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12141<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recently, inversion methods have focused on additional high-rate information in the generator (e.g., weights or intermediate features) to refine inversion and editing results from embedded latent codes. Although these techniques gain reasonable improvement in reconstruction, they decrease editing capability, especially on complex images (e.g., containing occlusions, detailed backgrounds, and artifacts). A vital crux is refining inversion results, avoiding editing capability degradation. To tackle this problem, we introduce Domain-Specific Hybrid Refinement (DHR), which draws on the advantages and disadvantages of two mainstream refinement techniques to maintain editing ability with fidelity improvement. Specifically, we first propose Domain-Specific Segmentation to segment images into two parts: in-domain and out-of-domain parts. The refinement process aims to maintain the editability for in-domain areas and improve two domains' fidelity. We refine these two parts by weight modulation and feature modulation, which we call Hybrid Modulation Refinement. Our proposed method is compatible with all latent code embedding methods. Extension experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art in real image inversion and editing. Code is available at https://github.com/caopulan/Domain-Specific_Hybrid_Refinement_Inversion. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Navigating Complexity in Software Engineering: A Prototype for Comparing  GPT-n Solutions<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12169<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Navigating the diverse solution spaces of non-trivial software engineering tasks requires a combination of technical knowledge, problem-solving skills, and creativity. With multiple possible solutions available, each with its own set of trade-offs, it is essential for programmers to evaluate the various options and select the one that best suits the specific requirements and constraints of a project. Whether it is choosing from a range of libraries, weighing the pros and cons of different architecture and design solutions, or finding unique ways to fulfill user requirements, the ability to think creatively is crucial for making informed decisions that will result in efficient and effective software. However, the interfaces of current chatbot tools for programmers, such as OpenAI's ChatGPT or GitHub Copilot, are optimized for presenting a single solution, even for complex queries. While other solutions can be requested, they are not displayed by default and are not intuitive to access. In this paper, we present our work-in-progress prototype "GPTCompare", which allows programmers to visually compare multiple source code solutions generated by GPT-n models for the same programming-related query by highlighting their similarities and differences. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: ZegOT: Zero-shot Segmentation Through Optimal Transport of Text Prompts<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12171<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recent success of large-scale Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has led to great promise in zero-shot semantic segmentation by transferring image-text aligned knowledge to pixel-level classification. However, existing methods usually require an additional image encoder or retraining/tuning the CLIP module. Here, we present a cost-effective strategy using text-prompt learning that keeps the entire CLIP module frozen while fully leveraging its rich information. Specifically, we propose a novel Zero-shot segmentation with Optimal Transport (ZegOT) method that matches multiple text prompts with frozen image embeddings through optimal transport, which allows each text prompt to efficiently focus on specific semantic attributes. Additionally, we propose Deep Local Feature Alignment (DLFA) that deeply aligns the text prompts with intermediate local feature of the frozen image encoder layers, which significantly boosts the zero-shot segmentation performance. Through extensive experiments on benchmark datasets, we show that our method achieves the state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance with only x7 lighter parameters compared to previous SOTA approaches. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Semantic Tagging with LSTM-CRF<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12206<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In the present paper, two models are presented namely LSTM-CRF and BERT-LSTM-CRF for semantic tagging of universal semantic tag dataset. The experiments show that the first model is much easier to converge while the second model that leverages BERT embedding, takes a long time to converge and needs a big dataset for semtagging to be effective. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Machine Learning Methods for Cancer Classification Using Gene Expression  Data: A Review<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12222<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Cancer is a term that denotes a group of diseases caused by abnormal growth of cells that can spread in different parts of the body. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), cancer is the second major cause of death after cardiovascular diseases. Gene expression can play a fundamental role in the early detection of cancer, as it is indicative of the biochemical processes in tissue and cells, as well as the genetic characteristics of an organism. Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) microarrays and Ribonucleic Acid (RNA)- sequencing methods for gene expression data allow quantifying the expression levels of genes and produce valuable data for computational analysis. This study reviews recent progress in gene expression analysis for cancer classification using machine learning methods. Both conventional and deep learning-based approaches are reviewed, with an emphasis on the ap-plication of deep learning models due to their comparative advantages for identifying gene patterns that are distinctive for various types of cancers. Relevant works that employ the most commonly used deep neural network architectures are covered, including multi-layer perceptrons, convolutional, recurrent, graph, and transformer networks. This survey also presents an overview of the data collection methods for gene expression analysis and lists important datasets that are commonly used for supervised machine learning for this task. Furthermore, reviewed are pertinent techniques for feature engineering and data preprocessing that are typically used to handle the high dimensionality of gene expression data, caused by a large number of genes present in data samples. The paper concludes with a discussion of future research directions for machine learning-based gene expression analysis for cancer classification. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: SEGA: Instructing Diffusion using Semantic Dimensions<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12247<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Text-to-image diffusion models have recently received a lot of interest for their astonishing ability to produce high-fidelity images from text only. However, achieving one-shot generation that aligns with the user's intent is nearly impossible, yet small changes to the input prompt often result in very different images. This leaves the user with little semantic control. To put the user in control, we show how to interact with the diffusion process to flexibly steer it along semantic directions. This semantic guidance (SEGA) allows for subtle and extensive edits, changes in composition and style, as well as optimizing the overall artistic conception. We demonstrate SEGA's effectiveness on a variety of tasks and provide evidence for its versatility and flexibility. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Few-shot Face Image Translation via GAN Prior Distillation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12257<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Face image translation has made notable progress in recent years. However, when training on limited data, the performance of existing approaches significantly declines. Although some studies have attempted to tackle this problem, they either failed to achieve the few-shot setting (less than 10) or can only get suboptimal results. In this paper, we propose GAN Prior Distillation (GPD) to enable effective few-shot face image translation. GPD contains two models: a teacher network with GAN Prior and a student network that fulfills end-to-end translation. Specifically, we adapt the teacher network trained on large-scale data in the source domain to the target domain with only a few samples, where it can learn the target domain's knowledge. Then, we can achieve few-shot augmentation by generating source domain and target domain images simultaneously with the same latent codes. We propose an anchor-based knowledge distillation module that can fully use the difference between the training and the augmented data to distill the knowledge of the teacher network into the student network. The trained student network achieves excellent generalization performance with the absorption of additional knowledge. Qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate that our method achieves superior results than state-of-the-art approaches in a few-shot setting. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Controlling Steering with Energy-Based Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12264<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: So-called implicit behavioral cloning with energy-based models has shown promising results in robotic manipulation tasks. We tested if the method's advantages carry on to controlling the steering of a real self-driving car with an end-to-end driving model. We performed an extensive comparison of the implicit behavioral cloning approach with explicit baseline approaches, all sharing the same neural network backbone architecture. Baseline explicit models were trained with regression (MAE) loss, classification loss (softmax and cross-entropy on a discretization), or as mixture density networks (MDN). While models using the energy-based formulation performed comparably to baseline approaches in terms of safety driver interventions, they had a higher whiteness measure, indicating higher jerk. To alleviate this, we show two methods that can be used to improve the smoothness of steering. We confirmed that energy-based models handle multimodalities slightly better than simple regression, but this did not translate to significantly better driving ability. We argue that the steering-only road-following task has too few multimodalities to benefit from energy-based models. This shows that applying implicit behavioral cloning to real-world tasks can be challenging, and further investigation is needed to bring out the theoretical advantages of energy-based models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Predicting Visit Cost of Obstructive Sleep Apnea using Electronic  Healthcare Records with Transformer<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12289<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Background: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is growing increasingly prevalent in many countries as obesity rises. Sufficient, effective treatment of OSA entails high social and financial costs for healthcare. Objective: For treatment purposes, predicting OSA patients' visit expenses for the coming year is crucial. Reliable estimates enable healthcare decision-makers to perform careful fiscal management and budget well for effective distribution of resources to hospitals. The challenges created by scarcity of high-quality patient data are exacerbated by the fact that just a third of those data from OSA patients can be used to train analytics models: only OSA patients with more than 365 days of follow-up are relevant for predicting a year's expenditures. Methods and procedures: The authors propose a method applying two Transformer models, one for augmenting the input via data from shorter visit histories and the other predicting the costs by considering both the material thus enriched and cases with more than a year's follow-up. Results: The two-model solution permits putting the limited body of OSA patient data to productive use. Relative to a single-Transformer solution using only a third of the high-quality patient data, the solution with two models improved the prediction performance's $R^{2}$ from 88.8% to 97.5%. Even using baseline models with the model-augmented data improved the $R^{2}$ considerably, from 61.6% to 81.9%. Conclusion: The proposed method makes prediction with the most of the available high-quality data by carefully exploiting details, which are not directly relevant for answering the question of the next year's likely expenditure. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Time out of Mind: Generating Emotionally Conditioned Rate of Speech<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12331<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Voice synthesis has seen significant improvements in the past decade resulting in highly intelligible voices. Further investigations have resulted in models that can produce variable speech, including conditional emotional expression. The problem lies, however, in a focus on phrase level modifications and prosodic vocal features. Using the CREMA-D dataset we have trained a GAN conditioned on emotion to generate worth lengths for a given input text. These word lengths are relative to neutral speech and can be provided, through speech synthesis markup language (SSML) to a text to speech (TTS) system to generate more expressive speech. We were able to achieve better performances on objective measures for neutral speech, and better time alignment for happy speech when compared to an out of box model. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Towards Vision Transformer Unrolling Fixed-Point Algorithm: a Case Study  on Image Restoration<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12332<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The great success of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) has inspired the algorithmic development of DNN-based Fixed-Point (DNN-FP) for computer vision tasks. DNN-FP methods, trained by Back-Propagation Through Time or computing the inaccurate inversion of the Jacobian, suffer from inferior representation ability. Motivated by the representation power of the Transformer, we propose a framework to unroll the FP and approximate each unrolled process via Transformer blocks, called FPformer. To reduce the high consumption of memory and computation, we come up with FPRformer by sharing parameters between the successive blocks. We further design a module to adapt Anderson acceleration to FPRformer to enlarge the unrolled iterations and improve the performance, called FPAformer. In order to fully exploit the capability of the Transformer, we apply the proposed model to image restoration, using self-supervised pre-training and supervised fine-tuning. 161 tasks from 4 categories of image restoration problems are used in the pre-training phase. Hereafter, the pre-trained FPformer, FPRformer, and FPAformer are further fine-tuned for the comparison scenarios. Using self-supervised pre-training and supervised fine-tuning, the proposed FPformer, FPRformer, and FPAformer achieve competitive performance with state-of-the-art image restoration methods and better training efficiency. FPAformer employs only 29.82% parameters used in SwinIR models, and provides superior performance after fine-tuning. To train these comparison models, it takes only 26.9% time used for training SwinIR models. It provides a promising way to introduce the Transformer in low-level vision tasks. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Don't Play Favorites: Minority Guidance for Diffusion Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12334<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We explore the problem of generating minority samples using diffusion models. The minority samples are instances that lie on low-density regions of a data manifold. Generating sufficient numbers of such minority instances is important, since they often contain some unique attributes of the data. However, the conventional generation process of the diffusion models mostly yields majority samples (that lie on high-density regions of the manifold) due to their high likelihoods, making themselves highly ineffective and time-consuming for the task. In this work, we present a novel framework that can make the generation process of the diffusion models focus on the minority samples. We first provide a new insight on the majority-focused nature of the diffusion models: they denoise in favor of the majority samples. The observation motivates us to introduce a metric that describes the uniqueness of a given sample. To address the inherent preference of the diffusion models w.r.t. the majority samples, we further develop minority guidance, a sampling technique that can guide the generation process toward regions with desired likelihood levels. Experiments on benchmark real datasets demonstrate that our minority guidance can greatly improve the capability of generating the low-likelihood minority samples over existing generative frameworks including the standard diffusion sampler. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Encoding Node Diffusion Competence and Role Significance for Network  Dismantling<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12349<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Percolation theory shows that removing a small fraction of critical nodes can lead to the disintegration of a large network into many disconnected tiny subnetworks. The network dismantling task focuses on how to efficiently select the least such critical nodes. Most existing approaches focus on measuring nodes' importance from either functional or topological viewpoint. Different from theirs, we argue that nodes' importance can be measured from both of the two complementary aspects: The functional importance can be based on the nodes' competence in relaying network information; While the topological importance can be measured from nodes' regional structural patterns. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised learning framework for network dismantling, called DCRS, which encodes and fuses both node diffusion competence and role significance. Specifically, we propose a graph diffusion neural network which emulates information diffusion for competence encoding; We divide nodes with similar egonet structural patterns into a few roles, and construct a role graph on which to encode node role significance. The DCRS converts and fuses the two encodings to output a final ranking score for selecting critical nodes. Experiments on both real-world networks and synthetic networks demonstrate that our scheme significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art competitors for its mostly requiring much fewer nodes to dismantle a network. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Antithetic Multilevel Particle Filters<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12371<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In this paper we consider the filtering of partially observed multi-dimensional diffusion processes that are observed regularly at discrete times. This is a challenging problem which requires the use of advanced numerical schemes based upon time-discretization of the diffusion process and then the application of particle filters. Perhaps the state-of-the-art method for moderate dimensional problems is the multilevel particle filter of \cite{mlpf}. This is a method that combines multilevel Monte Carlo and particle filters. The approach in that article is based intrinsically upon an Euler discretization method. We develop a new particle filter based upon the antithetic truncated Milstein scheme of \cite{ml_anti}. We show that for a class of diffusion problems, for $\epsilon&gt;0$ given, that the cost to produce a mean square error (MSE) in estimation of the filter, of $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^2)$ is $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^{-2}\log(\epsilon)^2)$. In the case of multidimensional diffusions with non-constant diffusion coefficient, the method of \cite{mlpf} has a cost of $\mathcal{O}(\epsilon^{-2.5})$ to achieve the same MSE. We support our theory with numerical results in several examples. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: All-speed numerical methods for the Euler equations via a sequential  explicit time integration<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12423<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: This paper presents a new strategy to deal with the excessive diffusion that standard finite volume methods for compressible Euler equations display in the limit of low Mach number. The strategy can be understood as using centered discretizations for the acoustic part of the Euler equations and stabilizing them with a leap-frog-type ("sequential explicit") time integration, a fully explicit method. This time integration takes inspiration from time-explicit staggered grid numerical methods. In this way, advantages of staggered methods carry over to collocated methods. The paper provides a number of new collocated schemes for linear acoustic/Maxwell equations that are inspired by the Yee scheme. They are then extended to an all-speed method for the full Euler equations on Cartesian grids. By taking the opposite view and taking inspiration from collocated methods, the paper also suggests a new way of staggering the variables which increases the stability as compared to the traditional Yee scheme. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Exploring Attention Map Reuse for Efficient Transformer Neural Networks<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12444<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Transformer-based deep neural networks have achieved great success in various sequence applications due to their powerful ability to model long-range dependency. The key module of Transformer is self-attention (SA) which extracts features from the entire sequence regardless of the distance between positions. Although SA helps Transformer performs particularly well on long-range tasks, SA requires quadratic computation and memory complexity with the input sequence length. Recently, attention map reuse, which groups multiple SA layers to share one attention map, has been proposed and achieved significant speedup for speech recognition models. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive study on attention map reuse focusing on its ability to accelerate inference. We compare the method with other SA compression techniques and conduct a breakdown analysis of its advantages for a long sequence. We demonstrate the effectiveness of attention map reuse by measuring the latency on both CPU and GPU platforms. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Boosting Automated Patch Correctness Prediction via Pre-trained Language  Model<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12453<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Automated program repair (APR) aims to fix software bugs automatically without human debugging efforts and plays a crucial role in software development and maintenance. Despite the recent significant progress, APR is still challenged by a long-standing overfitting problem (i.e., the generated patch is plausible but overfitting). Various techniques have thus been proposed to address the overfitting problem. Among them, leveraging deep learning approaches to predict patch correctness is emerging along with the available large-scale patch benchmarks recently. However, existing learning-based techniques mainly rely on manually-designed code features, which can be extremely costly and challenging to construct in practice. In this paper, we propose APPT, a pre-trained model-based automated patch correctness assessment technique, which treats the source code as token sequences without extra overhead to design hand-crafted features. In particular, APPT adopts a pre-trained model as the encoder stack, followed by an LSTM stack and a deep learning classifier. Although our idea is general and can be built on various pre-trained models, we implemente APPT based on the BERT model. We conduct an extensive experiment on 1,183 Defects4J patches and the results show that APPT achieves prediction accuracy of 79.0% and recall of 81.3%, outperforming the state-of-the-art technique CACHE by 3.6% and 4.8%. Our additional investigation on 49,694 real-world patches shows that APPT achieves the optimum performance (exceeding 99% in five common metrics for assessing patch classification techniques) compared with existing representation learning techniques. We also prove that adopting code pre-trained models can further provide substantial advancement (e.g., GraphCodeBERT-based APPT improves BERT-based APPT by 3.0% and 2.6% in precision and recall, respectively), highlighting the generalizability of APPT. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: 6-DoF Robotic Grasping with Transformer<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12476<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Robotic grasping aims to detect graspable points and their corresponding gripper configurations in a particular scene, and is fundamental for robot manipulation. Existing research works have demonstrated the potential of using a transformer model for robotic grasping, which can efficiently learn both global and local features. However, such methods are still limited in grasp detection on a 2D plane. In this paper, we extend a transformer model for 6-Degree-of-Freedom (6-DoF) robotic grasping, which makes it more flexible and suitable for tasks that concern safety. The key designs of our method are a serialization module that turns a 3D voxelized space into a sequence of feature tokens that a transformer model can consume and skip-connections that merge multiscale features effectively. In particular, our method takes a Truncated Signed Distance Function (TSDF) as input. After serializing the TSDF, a transformer model is utilized to encode the sequence, which can obtain a set of aggregated hidden feature vectors through multi-head attention. We then decode the hidden features to obtain per-voxel feature vectors through deconvolution and skip-connections. Voxel feature vectors are then used to regress parameters for executing grasping actions. On a recently proposed pile and packed grasping dataset, we showcase that our transformer-based method can surpass existing methods by about 5% in terms of success rates and declutter rates. We further evaluate the running time and generalization ability to demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Graph Mixer Networks<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12493<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In recent years, the attention mechanism has demonstrated superior performance in various tasks, leading to the emergence of GAT and Graph Transformer models that utilize this mechanism to extract relational information from graph-structured data. However, the high computational cost associated with the Transformer block, as seen in Vision Transformers, has motivated the development of alternative architectures such as MLP-Mixers, which have been shown to improve performance in image tasks while reducing the computational cost. Despite the effectiveness of Transformers in graph-based tasks, their computational efficiency remains a concern. The logic behind MLP-Mixers, which addresses this issue in image tasks, has the potential to be applied to graph-structured data as well. In this paper, we propose the Graph Mixer Network (GMN), also referred to as Graph Nasreddin Nets (GNasNets), a framework that incorporates the principles of MLP-Mixers for graph-structured data. Using a PNA model with multiple aggregators as the foundation, our proposed GMN has demonstrated improved performance compared to Graph Transformers. The source code is available publicly at https://github.com/asarigun/GraphMixerNetworks. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: BERT-based Authorship Attribution on the Romanian Dataset called ROST<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12500<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Being around for decades, the problem of Authorship Attribution is still very much in focus currently. Some of the more recent instruments used are the pre-trained language models, the most prevalent being BERT. Here we used such a model to detect the authorship of texts written in the Romanian language. The dataset used is highly unbalanced, i.e., significant differences in the number of texts per author, the sources from which the texts were collected, the time period in which the authors lived and wrote these texts, the medium intended to be read (i.e., paper or online), and the type of writing (i.e., stories, short stories, fairy tales, novels, literary articles, and sketches). The results are better than expected, sometimes exceeding 87\% macro-accuracy. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: AudioLDM: Text-to-Audio Generation with Latent Diffusion Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12503<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Text-to-audio (TTA) system has recently gained attention for its ability to synthesize general audio based on text descriptions. However, previous studies in TTA have limited generation quality with high computational costs. In this study, we propose AudioLDM, a TTA system that is built on a latent space to learn the continuous audio representations from contrastive language-audio pretraining (CLAP) latents. The pretrained CLAP models enable us to train LDMs with audio embedding while providing text embedding as a condition during sampling. By learning the latent representations of audio signals and their compositions without modeling the cross-modal relationship, AudioLDM is advantageous in both generation quality and computational efficiency. Trained on AudioCaps with a single GPU, AudioLDM achieves state-of-the-art TTA performance measured by both objective and subjective metrics (e.g., frechet distance). Moreover, AudioLDM is the first TTA system that enables various text-guided audio manipulations (e.g., style transfer) in a zero-shot fashion. Our implementation and demos are available at https://audioldm.github.io. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Fast-BEV: A Fast and Strong Bird's-Eye View Perception Baseline<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12511<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recently, perception task based on Bird's-Eye View (BEV) representation has drawn more and more attention, and BEV representation is promising as the foundation for next-generation Autonomous Vehicle (AV) perception. However, most existing BEV solutions either require considerable resources to execute on-vehicle inference or suffer from modest performance. This paper proposes a simple yet effective framework, termed Fast-BEV , which is capable of performing faster BEV perception on the on-vehicle chips. Towards this goal, we first empirically find that the BEV representation can be sufficiently powerful without expensive transformer based transformation nor depth representation. Our Fast-BEV consists of five parts, We novelly propose (1) a lightweight deployment-friendly view transformation which fast transfers 2D image feature to 3D voxel space, (2) an multi-scale image encoder which leverages multi-scale information for better performance, (3) an efficient BEV encoder which is particularly designed to speed up on-vehicle inference. We further introduce (4) a strong data augmentation strategy for both image and BEV space to avoid over-fitting, (5) a multi-frame feature fusion mechanism to leverage the temporal information. Through experiments, on 2080Ti platform, our R50 model can run 52.6 FPS with 47.3% NDS on the nuScenes validation set, exceeding the 41.3 FPS and 47.5% NDS of the BEVDepth-R50 model and 30.2 FPS and 45.7% NDS of the BEVDet4D-R50 model. Our largest model (R101@900x1600) establishes a competitive 53.5% NDS on the nuScenes validation set. We further develop a benchmark with considerable accuracy and efficiency on current popular on-vehicle chips. The code is released at: https://github.com/Sense-GVT/Fast-BEV. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Simplifying Subgraph Representation Learning for Scalable Link  Prediction<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12562<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Link prediction on graphs is a fundamental problem in graph representation learning. Subgraph representation learning approaches (SGRLs), by transforming link prediction to graph classification on the subgraphs around the target links, have advanced the learning capability of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) for link prediction. Despite their state-of-the-art performance, SGRLs are computationally expensive, and not scalable to large-scale graphs due to their expensive subgraph-level operations for each target link. To unlock the scalability of SGRLs, we propose a new class of SGRLs, that we call Scalable Simplified SGRL (S3GRL). Aimed at faster training and inference, S3GRL simplifies the message passing and aggregation operations in each link's subgraph. S3GRL, as a scalability framework, flexibly accommodates various subgraph sampling strategies and diffusion operators to emulate computationally-expensive SGRLs. We further propose and empirically study multiple instances of S3GRL. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed S3GRL models scale up SGRLs without any significant performance compromise (even with considerable gains in some cases), while offering substantially lower computational footprints (e.g., multi-fold inference and training speedup). <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: A Discerning Several Thousand Judgments: GPT-3 Rates the Article +  Adjective + Numeral + Noun Construction<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12564<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Knowledge of syntax includes knowledge of rare, idiosyncratic constructions. LLMs must overcome frequency biases in order to master such constructions. In this study, I prompt GPT-3 to give acceptability judgments on the English-language Article + Adjective + Numeral + Noun construction (e.g., "a lovely five days"). I validate the prompt using the CoLA corpus of acceptability judgments and then zero in on the AANN construction. I compare GPT- 3's judgments to crowdsourced human judgments on a subset of sentences. GPT-3's judgments are broadly similar to human judgments and generally align with proposed constraints in the literature but, in some cases, GPT-3's judgments and human judgments diverge from the literature and from each other. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Improving Cross-lingual Information Retrieval on Low-Resource Languages  via Optimal Transport Distillation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12566<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Benefiting from transformer-based pre-trained language models, neural ranking models have made significant progress. More recently, the advent of multilingual pre-trained language models provides great support for designing neural cross-lingual retrieval models. However, due to unbalanced pre-training data in different languages, multilingual language models have already shown a performance gap between high and low-resource languages in many downstream tasks. And cross-lingual retrieval models built on such pre-trained models can inherit language bias, leading to suboptimal result for low-resource languages. Moreover, unlike the English-to-English retrieval task, where large-scale training collections for document ranking such as MS MARCO are available, the lack of cross-lingual retrieval data for low-resource language makes it more challenging for training cross-lingual retrieval models. In this work, we propose OPTICAL: Optimal Transport distillation for low-resource Cross-lingual information retrieval. To transfer a model from high to low resource languages, OPTICAL forms the cross-lingual token alignment task as an optimal transport problem to learn from a well-trained monolingual retrieval model. By separating the cross-lingual knowledge from knowledge of query document matching, OPTICAL only needs bitext data for distillation training, which is more feasible for low-resource languages. Experimental results show that, with minimal training data, OPTICAL significantly outperforms strong baselines on low-resource languages, including neural machine translation. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: BLIP-2: Bootstrapping Language-Image Pre-training with Frozen Image  Encoders and Large Language Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12597<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The cost of vision-and-language pre-training has become increasingly prohibitive due to end-to-end training of large-scale models. This paper proposes BLIP-2, a generic and efficient pre-training strategy that bootstraps vision-language pre-training from off-the-shelf frozen pre-trained image encoders and frozen large language models. BLIP-2 bridges the modality gap with a lightweight Querying Transformer, which is pre-trained in two stages. The first stage bootstraps vision-language representation learning from a frozen image encoder. The second stage bootstraps vision-to-language generative learning from a frozen language model. BLIP-2 achieves state-of-the-art performance on various vision-language tasks, despite having significantly fewer trainable parameters than existing methods. For example, our model outperforms Flamingo80B by 8.7% on zero-shot VQAv2 with 54x fewer trainable parameters. We also demonstrate the model's emerging capabilities of zero-shot image-to-text generation that can follow natural language instructions. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Reweighted Interacting Langevin Diffusions: an Accelerated Sampling  Methodfor Optimization<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12640<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We proposed a new technique to accelerate sampling methods for solving difficult optimization problems. Our method investigates the intrinsic connection between posterior distribution sampling and optimization with Langevin dynamics, and then we propose an interacting particle scheme that approximates a Reweighted Interacting Langevin Diffusion system (RILD). The underlying system is designed by adding a multiplicative source term into the classical Langevin operator, leading to a higher convergence rate and a more concentrated invariant measure. We analyze the convergence rate of our algorithm and the improvement compared to existing results in the asymptotic situation. We also design various tests to verify our theoretical results, showing the advantages of accelerating convergence and breaking through barriers of suspicious local minimums, especially in high-dimensional non-convex settings. Our algorithms and analysis shed some light on combining gradient and genetic algorithms using Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) with provable guarantees. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: REPLUG: Retrieval-Augmented Black-Box Language Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12652<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We introduce REPLUG, a retrieval-augmented language modeling framework that treats the language model (LM) as a black box and augments it with a tuneable retrieval model. Unlike prior retrieval-augmented LMs that train language models with special cross attention mechanisms to encode the retrieved text, REPLUG simply prepends retrieved documents to the input for the frozen black-box LM. This simple design be can easily applied to any existing retrieval and language models. Furthermore, we show that the LM can be used to supervise the retrieval model, which can then find documents that help the LM make better predictions. Our experiments demonstrate that REPLUG with the tuned retriever significantly improves the performance of GPT-3 (175B) on language modeling by 6.3%, as well as the performance of Codex on five-shot MMLU by 5.1%. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Make-An-Audio: Text-To-Audio Generation with Prompt-Enhanced Diffusion  Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12661<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Large-scale multimodal generative modeling has created milestones in text-to-image and text-to-video generation. Its application to audio still lags behind for two main reasons: the lack of large-scale datasets with high-quality text-audio pairs, and the complexity of modeling long continuous audio data. In this work, we propose Make-An-Audio with a prompt-enhanced diffusion model that addresses these gaps by 1) introducing pseudo prompt enhancement with a distill-then-reprogram approach, it alleviates data scarcity with orders of magnitude concept compositions by using language-free audios; 2) leveraging spectrogram autoencoder to predict the self-supervised audio representation instead of waveforms. Together with robust contrastive language-audio pretraining (CLAP) representations, Make-An-Audio achieves state-of-the-art results in both objective and subjective benchmark evaluation. Moreover, we present its controllability and generalization for X-to-Audio with "No Modality Left Behind", for the first time unlocking the ability to generate high-definition, high-fidelity audios given a user-defined modality input. Audio samples are available at https://Text-to-Audio.github.io <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: GibbsDDRM: A Partially Collapsed Gibbs Sampler for Solving Blind Inverse  Problems with Denoising Diffusion Restoration<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12686<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Pre-trained diffusion models have been successfully used as priors in a variety of linear inverse problems, where the goal is to reconstruct a signal from noisy linear measurements. However, existing approaches require knowledge of the linear operator. In this paper, we propose GibbsDDRM, an extension of Denoising Diffusion Restoration Models (DDRM) to a blind setting in which the linear measurement operator is unknown. GibbsDDRM constructs a joint distribution of the data, measurements, and linear operator by using a pre-trained diffusion model for the data prior, and it solves the problem by posterior sampling with an efficient variant of a Gibbs sampler. The proposed method is problem-agnostic, meaning that a pre-trained diffusion model can be applied to various inverse problems without fine tuning. In experiments, it achieved high performance on both blind image deblurring and vocal dereverberation tasks, despite the use of simple generic priors for the underlying linear operators. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: CSDR-BERT: a pre-trained scientific dataset match model for Chinese  Scientific Dataset Retrieval<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12700<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: As the number of open and shared scientific datasets on the Internet increases under the open science movement, efficiently retrieving these datasets is a crucial task in information retrieval (IR) research. In recent years, the development of large models, particularly the pre-training and fine-tuning paradigm, which involves pre-training on large models and fine-tuning on downstream tasks, has provided new solutions for IR match tasks. In this study, we use the original BERT token in the embedding layer, improve the Sentence-BERT model structure in the model layer by introducing the SimCSE and K-Nearest Neighbors method, and use the cosent loss function in the optimization phase to optimize the target output. Our experimental results show that our model outperforms other competing models on both public and self-built datasets through comparative experiments and ablation implementations. This study explores and validates the feasibility and efficiency of pre-training techniques for semantic retrieval of Chinese scientific datasets. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Specializing Smaller Language Models towards Multi-Step Reasoning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12726<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The surprising ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to perform well on complex reasoning with only few-shot chain-of-thought prompts is believed to emerge only in very large-scale models (100+ billion parameters). We show that such abilities can, in fact, be distilled down from GPT-3.5 ($\ge$ 175B) to T5 variants ($\le$ 11B). We propose model specialization, to specialize the model's ability towards a target task. The hypothesis is that large models (commonly viewed as larger than 100B) have strong modeling power, but are spread on a large spectrum of tasks. Small models (commonly viewed as smaller than 10B) have limited model capacity, but if we concentrate their capacity on a specific target task, the model can achieve a decent improved performance. We use multi-step math reasoning as our testbed because it is a very typical emergent ability. We show two important aspects of model abilities: (1). there exists a very complex balance/ tradeoff between language models' multi-dimensional abilities; (2). by paying the price of decreased generic ability, we can clearly lift up the scaling curve of models smaller than 10B towards a specialized multi-step math reasoning ability. We further give comprehensive discussions about important design choices for better generalization, including the tuning data format, the start model checkpoint, and a new model selection method. We hope our practice and discoveries can serve as an important attempt towards specialized smaller models in the new research paradigm set by LLMs. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Response-act Guided Reinforced Dialogue Generation for Mental Health  Counseling<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12729<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Virtual Mental Health Assistants (VMHAs) have become a prevalent method for receiving mental health counseling in the digital healthcare space. An assistive counseling conversation commences with natural open-ended topics to familiarize the client with the environment and later converges into more fine-grained domain-specific topics. Unlike other conversational systems, which are categorized as open-domain or task-oriented systems, VMHAs possess a hybrid conversational flow. These counseling bots need to comprehend various aspects of the conversation, such as dialogue-acts, intents, etc., to engage the client in an effective conversation. Although the surge in digital health research highlights applications of many general-purpose response generation systems, they are barely suitable in the mental health domain -- the prime reason is the lack of understanding in mental health counseling. Moreover, in general, dialogue-act guided response generators are either limited to a template-based paradigm or lack appropriate semantics. To this end, we propose READER -- a REsponse-Act guided reinforced Dialogue genERation model for the mental health counseling conversations. READER is built on transformer to jointly predict a potential dialogue-act d(t+1) for the next utterance (aka response-act) and to generate an appropriate response u(t+1). Through the transformer-reinforcement-learning (TRL) with Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), we guide the response generator to abide by d(t+1) and ensure the semantic richness of the responses via BERTScore in our reward computation. We evaluate READER on HOPE, a benchmark counseling conversation dataset and observe that it outperforms several baselines across several evaluation metrics -- METEOR, ROUGE, and BERTScore. We also furnish extensive qualitative and quantitative analyses on results, including error analysis, human evaluation, etc. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: General Covariance Data Augmentation for Neural PDE Solvers<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12730<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The growing body of research shows how to replace classical partial differential equation (PDE) integrators with neural networks. The popular strategy is to generate the input-output pairs with a PDE solver, train the neural network in the regression setting, and use the trained model as a cheap surrogate for the solver. The bottleneck in this scheme is the number of expensive queries of a PDE solver needed to generate the dataset. To alleviate the problem, we propose a computationally cheap augmentation strategy based on general covariance and simple random coordinate transformations. Our approach relies on the fact that physical laws are independent of the coordinate choice, so the change in the coordinate system preserves the type of a parametric PDE and only changes PDE's data (e.g., initial conditions, diffusion coefficient). For tried neural networks and partial differential equations, proposed augmentation improves test error by 23% on average. The worst observed result is a 17% increase in test error for multilayer perceptron, and the best case is a 80% decrease for dilated residual network. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: EDSA-Ensemble: an Event Detection Sentiment Analysis Ensemble  Architecture<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12805<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: As global digitization continues to grow, technology becomes more affordable and easier to use, and social media platforms thrive, becoming the new means of spreading information and news. Communities are built around sharing and discussing current events. Within these communities, users are enabled to share their opinions about each event. Using Sentiment Analysis to understand the polarity of each message belonging to an event, as well as the entire event, can help to better understand the general and individual feelings of significant trends and the dynamics on online social networks. In this context, we propose a new ensemble architecture, EDSA-Ensemble (Event Detection Sentiment Analysis Ensemble), that uses Event Detection and Sentiment Analysis to improve the detection of the polarity for current events from Social Media. For Event Detection, we use techniques based on Information Diffusion taking into account both the time span and the topics. To detect the polarity of each event, we preprocess the text and employ several Machine and Deep Learning models to create an ensemble model. The preprocessing step includes several word representation models, i.e., raw frequency, TFIDF, Word2Vec, and Transformers. The proposed EDSA-Ensemble architecture improves the event sentiment classification over the individual Machine and Deep Learning models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Adversarially Slicing Generative Networks: Discriminator Slices Feature  for One-Dimensional Optimal Transport<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12811<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Generative adversarial networks (GANs) learn a target probability distribution by optimizing a generator and a discriminator with minimax objectives. This paper addresses the question of whether such optimization actually provides the generator with gradients that make its distribution close to the target distribution. We derive sufficient conditions for the discriminator to serve as the distance between the distributions by connecting the GAN formulation with the concept of sliced optimal transport. Furthermore, by leveraging these theoretical results, we propose a novel GAN training scheme, called adversarially slicing generative network (ASGN). With only simple modifications, the ASGN is applicable to a broad class of existing GANs. Experiments on synthetic and image datasets support our theoretical results and the ASGN's effectiveness as compared to usual GANs. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Exploring AI Ethics of ChatGPT: A Diagnostic Analysis<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12867<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recent breakthroughs in natural language processing (NLP) have permitted the synthesis and comprehension of coherent text in an open-ended way, therefore translating the theoretical algorithms into practical applications. The large language-model (LLM) has significantly impacted businesses such as report summarization softwares and copywriters. Observations indicate, however, that LLMs may exhibit social prejudice and toxicity, posing ethical and societal dangers of consequences resulting from irresponsibility. Large-scale benchmarks for accountable LLMs should consequently be developed. Although several empirical investigations reveal the existence of a few ethical difficulties in advanced LLMs, there is no systematic examination and user study of the ethics of current LLMs use. To further educate future efforts on constructing ethical LLMs responsibly, we perform a qualitative research method on OpenAI's ChatGPT to better understand the practical features of ethical dangers in recent LLMs. We analyze ChatGPT comprehensively from four perspectives: 1) \textit{Bias} 2) \textit{Reliability} 3) \textit{Robustness} 4) \textit{Toxicity}. In accordance with our stated viewpoints, we empirically benchmark ChatGPT on multiple sample datasets. We find that a significant number of ethical risks cannot be addressed by existing benchmarks, and hence illustrate them via additional case studies. In addition, we examine the implications of our findings on the AI ethics of ChatGPT, as well as future problems and practical design considerations for LLMs. We believe that our findings may give light on future efforts to determine and mitigate the ethical hazards posed by machines in LLM applications. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Guiding Online Reinforcement Learning with Action-Free Offline  Pretraining<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12876<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Offline RL methods have been shown to reduce the need for environment interaction by training agents using offline collected episodes. However, these methods typically require action information to be logged during data collection, which can be difficult or even impossible in some practical cases. In this paper, we investigate the potential of using action-free offline datasets to improve online reinforcement learning, name this problem Reinforcement Learning with Action-Free Offline Pretraining (AFP-RL). We introduce Action-Free Guide (AF-Guide), a method that guides online training by extracting knowledge from action-free offline datasets. AF-Guide consists of an Action-Free Decision Transformer (AFDT) implementing a variant of Upside-Down Reinforcement Learning. It learns to plan the next states from the offline dataset, and a Guided Soft Actor-Critic (Guided SAC) that learns online with guidance from AFDT. Experimental results show that AF-Guide can improve sample efficiency and performance in online training thanks to the knowledge from the action-free offline dataset. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Half of an image is enough for quality assessment<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12891<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Deep networks show promising performance in image quality assessment (IQA), whereas few studies have investigated how a deep model works. In this work, a positional masked transformer for IQA is first developed, based on which we observe that half of an image might contribute trivially to image quality, whereas the other half is crucial. Such observation is generalized to that half of the image regions can dominate image quality in several CNN-based IQA models. Motivated by this observation, three semantic measures (saliency, frequency, objectness) are then derived, showing high accordance with importance degree of image regions in IQA. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Deep learning numerical methods for high-dimensional fully nonlinear  PIDEs and coupled FBSDEs with jumps<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12895<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We propose a deep learning algorithm for solving high-dimensional parabolic integro-differential equations (PIDEs) and high-dimensional forward-backward stochastic differential equations with jumps (FBSDEJs), where the jump-diffusion process are derived by a Brownian motion and an independent compensated Poisson random measure. In this novel algorithm, a pair of deep neural networks for the approximations of the gradient and the integral kernel is introduced in a crucial way based on deep FBSDE method. To derive the error estimates for this deep learning algorithm, the convergence of Markovian iteration, the error bound of Euler time discretization, and the simulation error of deep learning algorithm are investigated. Two numerical examples are provided to show the efficiency of this proposed algorithm. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: DepGraph: Towards Any Structural Pruning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12900<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Structural pruning enables model acceleration by removing structurally-grouped parameters from neural networks. However, the parameter-grouping patterns vary widely across different models, making architecture-specific pruners, which rely on manually-designed grouping schemes, non-generalizable to new architectures. In this work, we study a highly-challenging yet barely-explored task, any structural pruning, to tackle general structural pruning of arbitrary architecture like CNNs, RNNs, GNNs and Transformers. The most prominent obstacle towards this ambitious goal lies in the structural coupling, which not only forces different layers to be pruned simultaneously, but also expects all parameters in a removed group to be consistently unimportant, thereby avoiding significant performance degradation after pruning. To address this problem, we propose a general and fully automatic method, Dependency Graph (DepGraph), to explicitly model the inter-dependency between layers and comprehensively group coupled parameters. In this work, we extensively evaluate our method on several architectures and tasks, including ResNe(X)t, DenseNet, MobileNet and Vision transformer for images, GAT for graph, DGCNN for 3D point cloud, alongside LSTM for language, and demonstrate that, even with a simple L1 norm criterion, the proposed method consistently yields gratifying performances. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Dirichlet-Neumann Waveform Relaxation Algorithm for Time Fractional  Diffusion Equation in Heterogeneous Media<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12909<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In this article, we have studied the convergence behavior of the Dirichlet-Neumann waveform relaxation algorithms for time-fractional sub-diffusion and diffusion wave equations in 1D \&amp; 2D for regular domains, where the dimensionless diffusion coefficient takes different constant values in different subdomains. From numerical experiments, we first capture the optimal relaxation parameters. Using these optimal relaxation parameters, our analysis estimates the rate of change of the convergence behavior against the fractional order and time. We have performed our analysis in multiple subdomain cases for both in 1D \&amp; 2D. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: PromptMix: Text-to-image diffusion models enhance the performance of  lightweight networks<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12914<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Many deep learning tasks require annotations that are too time consuming for human operators, resulting in small dataset sizes. This is especially true for dense regression problems such as crowd counting which requires the location of every person in the image to be annotated. Techniques such as data augmentation and synthetic data generation based on simulations can help in such cases. In this paper, we introduce PromptMix, a method for artificially boosting the size of existing datasets, that can be used to improve the performance of lightweight networks. First, synthetic images are generated in an end-to-end data-driven manner, where text prompts are extracted from existing datasets via an image captioning deep network, and subsequently introduced to text-to-image diffusion models. The generated images are then annotated using one or more high-performing deep networks, and mixed with the real dataset for training the lightweight network. By extensive experiments on five datasets and two tasks, we show that PromptMix can significantly increase the performance of lightweight networks by up to 26%. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: ERA-Solver: Error-Robust Adams Solver for Fast Sampling of Diffusion  Probabilistic Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12935<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Though denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) have achieved remarkable generation results, the low sampling efficiency of DDPMs still limits further applications. Since DDPMs can be formulated as diffusion ordinary differential equations (ODEs), various fast sampling methods can be derived from solving diffusion ODEs. However, we notice that previous sampling methods with fixed analytical form are not robust with the error in the noise estimated from pretrained diffusion models. In this work, we construct an error-robust Adams solver (ERA-Solver), which utilizes the implicit Adams numerical method that consists of a predictor and a corrector. Different from the traditional predictor based on explicit Adams methods, we leverage a Lagrange interpolation function as the predictor, which is further enhanced with an error-robust strategy to adaptively select the Lagrange bases with lower error in the estimated noise. Experiments on Cifar10, LSUN-Church, and LSUN-Bedroom datasets demonstrate that our proposed ERA-Solver achieves 5.14, 9.42, and 9.69 Fenchel Inception Distance (FID) for image generation, with only 10 network evaluations. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: GALIP: Generative Adversarial CLIPs for Text-to-Image Synthesis<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12959<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Synthesizing high-fidelity complex images from text is challenging. Based on large pretraining, the autoregressive and diffusion models can synthesize photo-realistic images. Although these large models have shown notable progress, there remain three flaws. 1) These models require tremendous training data and parameters to achieve good performance. 2) The multi-step generation design slows the image synthesis process heavily. 3) The synthesized visual features are difficult to control and require delicately designed prompts. To enable high-quality, efficient, fast, and controllable text-to-image synthesis, we propose Generative Adversarial CLIPs, namely GALIP. GALIP leverages the powerful pretrained CLIP model both in the discriminator and generator. Specifically, we propose a CLIP-based discriminator. The complex scene understanding ability of CLIP enables the discriminator to accurately assess the image quality. Furthermore, we propose a CLIP-empowered generator that induces the visual concepts from CLIP through bridge features and prompts. The CLIP-integrated generator and discriminator boost training efficiency, and as a result, our model only requires about 3% training data and 6% learnable parameters, achieving comparable results to large pretrained autoregressive and diffusion models. Moreover, our model achieves 120 times faster synthesis speed and inherits the smooth latent space from GAN. The extensive experimental results demonstrate the excellent performance of our GALIP. Code is available at https://github.com/tobran/GALIP. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Quantifying Context Mixing in Transformers<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12971<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Self-attention weights and their transformed variants have been the main source of information for analyzing token-to-token interactions in Transformer-based models. But despite their ease of interpretation, these weights are not faithful to the models' decisions as they are only one part of an encoder, and other components in the encoder layer can have considerable impact on information mixing in the output representations. In this work, by expanding the scope of analysis to the whole encoder block, we propose Value Zeroing, a novel context mixing score customized for Transformers that provides us with a deeper understanding of how information is mixed at each encoder layer. We demonstrate the superiority of our context mixing score over other analysis methods through a series of complementary evaluations with different viewpoints based on linguistically informed rationales, probing, and faithfulness analysis. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Robust DPG Fortin operators<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13021<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: At the fully discrete setting, stability of the discontinuous Petrov--Galerkin (DPG) method with optimal test functions requires local test spaces that ensure the existence of Fortin operators. We construct such operators for $H^1$ and $\boldsymbol{H}(\mathrm{div})$ on simplices in any space dimension and arbitrary polynomial degree. The resulting test spaces are smaller than previously analyzed cases. For parameter-dependent norms, we achieve uniform boundedness by the inclusion of exponential layers. As an example, we consider a canonical DPG setting for reaction-dominated diffusion. Our test spaces guarantee uniform stability and quasi-optimal convergence of the scheme. We present numerical experiments that illustrate the loss of stability and error control by the residual for small diffusion coefficient when using standard polynomial test spaces, whereas we observe uniform stability and error control with our construction. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Representation biases in sentence transformers<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13039<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Variants of the BERT architecture specialised for producing full-sentence representations often achieve better performance on downstream tasks than sentence embeddings extracted from vanilla BERT. However, there is still little understanding of what properties of inputs determine the properties of such representations. In this study, we construct several sets of sentences with pre-defined lexical and syntactic structures and show that SOTA sentence transformers have a strong nominal-participant-set bias: cosine similarities between pairs of sentences are more strongly determined by the overlap in the set of their noun participants than by having the same predicates, lengthy nominal modifiers, or adjuncts. At the same time, the precise syntactic-thematic functions of the participants are largely irrelevant. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: STAIR: Learning Sparse Text and Image Representation in Grounded Tokens<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13081<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Image and text retrieval is one of the foundational tasks in the vision and language domain with multiple real-world applications. State-of-the-art approaches, e.g. CLIP, ALIGN, represent images and texts as dense embeddings and calculate the similarity in the dense embedding space as the matching score. On the other hand, sparse semantic features like bag-of-words models are more interpretable, but believed to suffer from inferior accuracy than dense representations. In this work, we show that it is possible to build a sparse semantic representation that is as powerful as, or even better than, dense presentations. We extend the CLIP model and build a sparse text and image representation (STAIR), where the image and text are mapped to a sparse token space. Each token in the space is a (sub-)word in the vocabulary, which is not only interpretable but also easy to integrate with existing information retrieval systems. STAIR model significantly outperforms a CLIP model with +$4.9\%$ and +$4.3\%$ absolute Recall@1 improvement on COCO-5k text$\rightarrow$image and image$\rightarrow$text retrieval respectively. It also achieved better performance on both of ImageNet zero-shot and linear probing compared to CLIP. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: LEXTREME: A Multi-Lingual and Multi-Task Benchmark for the Legal Domain<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13126<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Lately, propelled by the phenomenal advances around the transformer architecture, the legal NLP field has enjoyed spectacular growth. To measure progress, well curated and challenging benchmarks are crucial. However, most benchmarks are English only and in legal NLP specifically there is no multilingual benchmark available yet. Additionally, many benchmarks are saturated, with the best models clearly outperforming the best humans and achieving near perfect scores. We survey the legal NLP literature and select 11 datasets covering 24 languages, creating LEXTREME. To provide a fair comparison, we propose two aggregate scores, one based on the datasets and one on the languages. The best baseline (XLM-R large) achieves both a dataset aggregate score a language aggregate score of 61.3. This indicates that LEXTREME is still very challenging and leaves ample room for improvement. To make it easy for researchers and practitioners to use, we release LEXTREME on huggingface together with all the code required to evaluate models and a public Weights and Biases project with all the runs. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: SeaFormer: Squeeze-enhanced Axial Transformer for Mobile Semantic  Segmentation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13156<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Since the introduction of Vision Transformers, the landscape of many computer vision tasks (e.g., semantic segmentation), which has been overwhelmingly dominated by CNNs, recently has significantly revolutionized. However, the computational cost and memory requirement render these methods unsuitable on the mobile device, especially for the high-resolution per-pixel semantic segmentation task. In this paper, we introduce a new method squeeze-enhanced Axial TransFormer (SeaFormer) for mobile semantic segmentation. Specifically, we design a generic attention block characterized by the formulation of squeeze Axial and detail enhancement. It can be further used to create a family of backbone architectures with superior cost-effectiveness. Coupled with a light segmentation head, we achieve the best trade-off between segmentation accuracy and latency on the ARM-based mobile devices on the ADE20K and Cityscapes datasets. Critically, we beat both the mobile-friendly rivals and Transformer-based counterparts with better performance and lower latency without bells and whistles. Beyond semantic segmentation, we further apply the proposed SeaFormer architecture to image classification problem, demonstrating the potentials of serving as a versatile mobile-friendly backbone. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Label-free learning of elliptic partial differential equation solvers  with generalizability across boundary value problems<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13165<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Traditional, numerical discretization-based solvers of partial differential equations (PDEs) are fundamentally agnostic to domains, boundary conditions and coefficients. In contrast, machine learnt solvers have a limited generalizability across these elements of boundary value problems. This is strongly true in the case of surrogate models that are typically trained on direct numerical simulations of PDEs applied to one specific boundary value problem. In a departure from this direct approach, the label-free machine learning of solvers is centered on a loss function that incorporates the PDE and boundary conditions in residual form. However, their generalization across boundary conditions is limited and they remain strongly domain-dependent. Here, we present a framework that generalizes across domains, boundary conditions and coefficients simultaneously with learning the PDE in weak form. Our work explores the ability of simple, convolutional neural network (CNN)-based encoder-decoder architectures to learn to solve a PDE in greater generality than its restriction to a particular boundary value problem. In this first communication, we consider the elliptic PDEs of Fickean diffusion, linear and nonlinear elasticity. Importantly, the learning happens independently of any labelled field data from either experiments or direct numerical solutions. Extensive results for these problem classes demonstrate the framework's ability to learn PDE solvers that generalize across hundreds of thousands of domains, boundary conditions and coefficients, including extrapolation beyond the learning regime. Once trained, the machine learning solvers are orders of magnitude faster than discretization-based solvers. We place our work in the context of recent continuous operator learning frameworks, and note extensions to transfer learning, active learning and reinforcement learning. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Shape-aware Text-driven Layered Video Editing<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13173<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Temporal consistency is essential for video editing applications. Existing work on layered representation of videos allows propagating edits consistently to each frame. These methods, however, can only edit object appearance rather than object shape changes due to the limitation of using a fixed UV mapping field for texture atlas. We present a shape-aware, text-driven video editing method to tackle this challenge. To handle shape changes in video editing, we first propagate the deformation field between the input and edited keyframe to all frames. We then leverage a pre-trained text-conditioned diffusion model as guidance for refining shape distortion and completing unseen regions. The experimental results demonstrate that our method can achieve shape-aware consistent video editing and compare favorably with the state-of-the-art. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Weighted flow diffusion for local graph clustering with node attributes:  an algorithm and statistical guarantees<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13187<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Local graph clustering methods aim to detect small clusters in very large graphs without the need to process the whole graph. They are fundamental and scalable tools for a wide range of tasks such as local community detection, node ranking and node embedding. While prior work on local graph clustering mainly focuses on graphs without node attributes, modern real-world graph datasets typically come with node attributes that provide valuable additional information. We present a simple local graph clustering algorithm for graphs with node attributes, based on the idea of diffusing mass locally in the graph while accounting for both structural and attribute proximities. Using high-dimensional concentration results, we provide statistical guarantees on the performance of the algorithm for the recovery of a target cluster with a single seed node. We give conditions under which a target cluster generated from a fairly general contextual random graph model, which includes both the stochastic block model and the planted cluster model as special cases, can be fully recovered with bounded false positives. Empirically, we validate all theoretical claims using synthetic data, and we show that incorporating node attributes leads to superior local clustering performances using real-world graph datasets. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Extracting Training Data from Diffusion Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13188<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Image diffusion models such as DALL-E 2, Imagen, and Stable Diffusion have attracted significant attention due to their ability to generate high-quality synthetic images. In this work, we show that diffusion models memorize individual images from their training data and emit them at generation time. With a generate-and-filter pipeline, we extract over a thousand training examples from state-of-the-art models, ranging from photographs of individual people to trademarked company logos. We also train hundreds of diffusion models in various settings to analyze how different modeling and data decisions affect privacy. Overall, our results show that diffusion models are much less private than prior generative models such as GANs, and that mitigating these vulnerabilities may require new advances in privacy-preserving training. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Looped Transformers as Programmable Computers<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13196<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We present a framework for using transformer networks as universal computers by programming them with specific weights and placing them in a loop. Our input sequence acts as a punchcard, consisting of instructions and memory for data read/writes. We demonstrate that a constant number of encoder layers can emulate basic computing blocks, including embedding edit operations, non-linear functions, function calls, program counters, and conditional branches. Using these building blocks, we emulate a small instruction-set computer. This allows us to map iterative algorithms to programs that can be executed by a looped, 13-layer transformer. We show how this transformer, instructed by its input, can emulate a basic calculator, a basic linear algebra library, and in-context learning algorithms that employ backpropagation. Our work highlights the versatility of the attention mechanism, and demonstrates that even shallow transformers can execute full-fledged, general-purpose programs. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Towards a Single Unified Model for Effective Detection, Segmentation,  and Diagnosis of Eight Major Cancers Using a Large Collection of CT Scans<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12291<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Human readers or radiologists routinely perform full-body multi-organ multi-disease detection and diagnosis in clinical practice, while most medical AI systems are built to focus on single organs with a narrow list of a few diseases. This might severely limit AI's clinical adoption. A certain number of AI models need to be assembled non-trivially to match the diagnostic process of a human reading a CT scan. In this paper, we construct a Unified Tumor Transformer (UniT) model to detect (tumor existence and location) and diagnose (tumor characteristics) eight major cancer-prevalent organs in CT scans. UniT is a query-based Mask Transformer model with the output of multi-organ and multi-tumor semantic segmentation. We decouple the object queries into organ queries, detection queries and diagnosis queries, and further establish hierarchical relationships among the three groups. This clinically-inspired architecture effectively assists inter- and intra-organ representation learning of tumors and facilitates the resolution of these complex, anatomically related multi-organ cancer image reading tasks. UniT is trained end-to-end using a curated large-scale CT images of 10,042 patients including eight major types of cancers and occurring non-cancer tumors (all are pathology-confirmed with 3D tumor masks annotated by radiologists). On the test set of 631 patients, UniT has demonstrated strong performance under a set of clinically relevant evaluation metrics, substantially outperforming both multi-organ segmentation methods and an assembly of eight single-organ expert models in tumor detection, segmentation, and diagnosis. Such a unified multi-cancer image reading model (UniT) can significantly reduce the number of false positives produced by combined multi-system models. This moves one step closer towards a universal high-performance cancer screening tool. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Generating Novel, Designable, and Diverse Protein Structures by  Equivariantly Diffusing Oriented Residue Clouds<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12485<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Proteins power a vast array of functional processes in living cells. The capability to create new proteins with designed structures and functions would thus enable the engineering of cellular behavior and development of protein-based therapeutics and materials. Structure-based protein design aims to find structures that are designable (can be realized by a protein sequence), novel (have dissimilar geometry from natural proteins), and diverse (span a wide range of geometries). While advances in protein structure prediction have made it possible to predict structures of novel protein sequences, the combinatorially large space of sequences and structures limits the practicality of search-based methods. Generative models provide a compelling alternative, by implicitly learning the low-dimensional structure of complex data distributions. Here, we leverage recent advances in denoising diffusion probabilistic models and equivariant neural networks to develop Genie, a generative model of protein structures that performs discrete-time diffusion using a cloud of oriented reference frames in 3D space. Through in silico evaluations, we demonstrate that Genie generates protein backbones that are more designable, novel, and diverse than existing models. This indicates that Genie is capturing key aspects of the distribution of protein structure space and facilitates protein design with high success rates. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Physics-agnostic and Physics-infused machine learning for thin films  flows: modeling, and predictions from small data<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.12508<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Numerical simulations of multiphase flows are crucial in numerous engineering applications, but are often limited by the computationally demanding solution of the Navier-Stokes (NS) equations. Here, we present a data-driven workflow where a handful of detailed NS simulation data are leveraged into a reduced-order model for a prototypical vertically falling liquid film. We develop a physics-agnostic model for the film thickness, achieving a far better agreement with the NS solutions than the asymptotic Kuramoto-Sivashinsky (KS) equation. We also develop two variants of physics-infused models providing a form of calibration of a low-fidelity model (i.e. the KS) against a few high-fidelity NS data. Finally, predictive models for missing data are developed, for either the amplitude, or the full-field velocity and even the flow parameter from partial information. This is achieved with the so-called "Gappy Diffusion Maps", which we compare favorably to its linear counterpart, Gappy POD. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Benchmarking optimality of time series classification methods in  distinguishing diffusions<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.13112<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Performance benchmarking is a crucial component of time series classification (TSC) algorithm design, and a fast-growing number of datasets have been established for empirical benchmarking. However, the empirical benchmarks are costly and do not guarantee statistical optimality. This study proposes to benchmark the optimality of TSC algorithms in distinguishing diffusion processes by the likelihood ratio test (LRT). The LRT is optimal in the sense of the Neyman-Pearson lemma: it has the smallest false positive rate among classifiers with a controlled level of false negative rate. The LRT requires the likelihood ratio of the time series to be computable. The diffusion processes from stochastic differential equations provide such time series and are flexible in design for generating linear or nonlinear time series. We demonstrate the benchmarking with three scalable state-of-the-art TSC algorithms: random forest, ResNet, and ROCKET. Test results show that they can achieve LRT optimality for univariate time series and multivariate Gaussian processes. However, these model-agnostic algorithms are suboptimal in classifying nonlinear multivariate time series from high-dimensional stochastic interacting particle systems. Additionally, the LRT benchmark provides tools to analyze the dependence of classification accuracy on the time length, dimension, temporal sampling frequency, and randomness of the time series. Thus, the LRT with diffusion processes can systematically and efficiently benchmark the optimality of TSC algorithms and may guide their future improvements. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/></body>
        </html>
