**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Value function estimation using conditional diffusion models for control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07290  
**Abstract:** A fairly reliable trend in deep reinforcement learning is that the performance scales with the number of parameters, provided a complimentary scaling in amount of training data. As the appetite for large models increases, it is imperative to address, sooner than later, the potential problem of running out of high-quality demonstrations. In this case, instead of collecting only new data via costly human demonstrations or risking a simulation-to-real transfer with uncertain effects, it would be beneficial to leverage vast amounts of readily-available low-quality data. Since classical control algorithms such as behavior cloning or temporal difference learning cannot be used on reward-free or action-free data out-of-the-box, this solution warrants novel training paradigms for continuous control. We propose a simple algorithm called Diffused Value Function (DVF), which learns a joint multi-step model of the environment-robot interaction dynamics using a diffusion model. This model can be efficiently learned from state sequences (i.e., without access to reward functions nor actions), and subsequently used to estimate the value of each action out-of-the-box. We show how DVF can be used to efficiently capture the state visitation measure for multiple controllers, and show promising qualitative and quantitative results on challenging robotics benchmarks. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Medical Data Augmentation via ChatGPT: A Case Study on Medication  Identification and Medication Event Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07297  
**Abstract:** The identification of key factors such as medications, diseases, and relationships within electronic health records and clinical notes has a wide range of applications in the clinical field. In the N2C2 2022 competitions, various tasks were presented to promote the identification of key factors in electronic health records (EHRs) using the Contextualized Medication Event Dataset (CMED). Pretrained large language models (LLMs) demonstrated exceptional performance in these tasks. This study aims to explore the utilization of LLMs, specifically ChatGPT, for data augmentation to overcome the limited availability of annotated data for identifying the key factors in EHRs. Additionally, different pre-trained BERT models, initially trained on extensive datasets like Wikipedia and MIMIC, were employed to develop models for identifying these key variables in EHRs through fine-tuning on augmented datasets. The experimental results of two EHR analysis tasks, namely medication identification and medication event classification, indicate that data augmentation based on ChatGPT proves beneficial in improving performance for both medication identification and medication event classification. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** A Comprehensive Survey on Applications of Transformers for Deep Learning  Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07303  
**Abstract:** Transformer is a deep neural network that employs a self-attention mechanism to comprehend the contextual relationships within sequential data. Unlike conventional neural networks or updated versions of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) such as Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), transformer models excel in handling long dependencies between input sequence elements and enable parallel processing. As a result, transformer-based models have attracted substantial interest among researchers in the field of artificial intelligence. This can be attributed to their immense potential and remarkable achievements, not only in Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks but also in a wide range of domains, including computer vision, audio and speech processing, healthcare, and the Internet of Things (IoT). Although several survey papers have been published highlighting the transformer's contributions in specific fields, architectural differences, or performance evaluations, there is still a significant absence of a comprehensive survey paper encompassing its major applications across various domains. Therefore, we undertook the task of filling this gap by conducting an extensive survey of proposed transformer models from 2017 to 2022. Our survey encompasses the identification of the top five application domains for transformer-based models, namely: NLP, Computer Vision, Multi-Modality, Audio and Speech Processing, and Signal Processing. We analyze the impact of highly influential transformer-based models in these domains and subsequently classify them based on their respective tasks using a proposed taxonomy. Our aim is to shed light on the existing potential and future possibilities of transformers for enthusiastic researchers, thus contributing to the broader understanding of this groundbreaking technology. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Learning to Mask and Permute Visual Tokens for Vision Transformer  Pre-Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07346  
**Abstract:** The use of self-supervised pre-training has emerged as a promising approach to enhance the performance of visual tasks such as image classification. In this context, recent approaches have employed the Masked Image Modeling paradigm, which pre-trains a backbone by reconstructing visual tokens associated with randomly masked image patches. This masking approach, however, introduces noise into the input data during pre-training, leading to discrepancies that can impair performance during the fine-tuning phase. Furthermore, input masking neglects the dependencies between corrupted patches, increasing the inconsistencies observed in downstream fine-tuning tasks. To overcome these issues, we propose a new self-supervised pre-training approach, named Masked and Permuted Vision Transformer (MaPeT), that employs autoregressive and permuted predictions to capture intra-patch dependencies. In addition, MaPeT employs auxiliary positional information to reduce the disparity between the pre-training and fine-tuning phases. In our experiments, we employ a fair setting to ensure reliable and meaningful comparisons and conduct investigations on multiple visual tokenizers, including our proposed $k$-CLIP which directly employs discretized CLIP features. Our results demonstrate that MaPeT achieves competitive performance on ImageNet, compared to baselines and competitors under the same model setting. Source code and trained models are publicly available at: https://github.com/aimagelab/MaPeT. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** G-invariant diffusion maps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07350  
**Abstract:** The diffusion maps embedding of data lying on a manifold have shown success in tasks ranging from dimensionality reduction and clustering, to data visualization. In this work, we consider embedding data sets which were sampled from a manifold which is closed under the action of a continuous matrix group. An example of such a data set are images who's planar rotations are arbitrary. The G-invariant graph Laplacian, introduced in a previous work of the authors, admits eigenfunctions in the form of tensor products between the elements of the irreducible unitary representations of the group and eigenvectors of certain matrices. We employ these eigenfunctions to derive diffusion maps that intrinsically account for the group action on the data. In particular, we construct both equivariant and invariant embeddings which can be used naturally to cluster and align the data points. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our construction with simulated data. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Lost in Translation: Large Language Models in Non-English Content  Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07377  
**Abstract:** In recent years, large language models (e.g., Open AI's GPT-4, Meta's LLaMa, Google's PaLM) have become the dominant approach for building AI systems to analyze and generate language online. However, the automated systems that increasingly mediate our interactions online -- such as chatbots, content moderation systems, and search engines -- are primarily designed for and work far more effectively in English than in the world's other 7,000 languages. Recently, researchers and technology companies have attempted to extend the capabilities of large language models into languages other than English by building what are called multilingual language models. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Implementing BERT and fine-tuned RobertA to detect AI generated news by  ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07401  
**Abstract:** The abundance of information on social media has increased the necessity of accurate real-time rumour detection. Manual techniques of identifying and verifying fake news generated by AI tools are impracticable and time-consuming given the enormous volume of information generated every day. This has sparked an increase in interest in creating automated systems to find fake news on the Internet. The studies in this research demonstrate that the BERT and RobertA models with fine-tuning had the best success in detecting AI generated news. With a score of 98%, tweaked RobertA in particular showed excellent precision. In conclusion, this study has shown that neural networks can be used to identify bogus news AI generation news created by ChatGPT. The RobertA and BERT models' excellent performance indicates that these models can play a critical role in the fight against misinformation. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Explaining CLIP through Co-Creative Drawings and Interaction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07429  
**Abstract:** This paper analyses a visual archive of drawings produced by an interactive robotic art installation where audience members narrated their dreams into a system powered by CLIPdraw deep learning (DL) model that interpreted and transformed their dreams into images. The resulting archive of prompt-image pairs were examined and clustered based on concept representation accuracy. As a result of the analysis, the paper proposes four groupings for describing and explaining CLIP-generated results: clear concept, text-to-text as image, indeterminacy and confusion, and lost in translation. This article offers a glimpse into a collection of dreams interpreted, mediated and given form by Artificial Intelligence (AI), showcasing oftentimes unexpected, visually compelling or, indeed, the dream-like output of the system, with the emphasis on processes and results of translations between languages, sign-systems and various modules of the installation. In the end, the paper argues that proposed clusters support better understanding of the neural model. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Instant Multi-View Head Capture through Learnable Registration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07437  
**Abstract:** Existing methods for capturing datasets of 3D heads in dense semantic correspondence are slow, and commonly address the problem in two separate steps; multi-view stereo (MVS) reconstruction followed by non-rigid registration. To simplify this process, we introduce TEMPEH (Towards Estimation of 3D Meshes from Performances of Expressive Heads) to directly infer 3D heads in dense correspondence from calibrated multi-view images. Registering datasets of 3D scans typically requires manual parameter tuning to find the right balance between accurately fitting the scans surfaces and being robust to scanning noise and outliers. Instead, we propose to jointly register a 3D head dataset while training TEMPEH. Specifically, during training we minimize a geometric loss commonly used for surface registration, effectively leveraging TEMPEH as a regularizer. Our multi-view head inference builds on a volumetric feature representation that samples and fuses features from each view using camera calibration information. To account for partial occlusions and a large capture volume that enables head movements, we use view- and surface-aware feature fusion, and a spatial transformer-based head localization module, respectively. We use raw MVS scans as supervision during training, but, once trained, TEMPEH directly predicts 3D heads in dense correspondence without requiring scans. Predicting one head takes about 0.3 seconds with a median reconstruction error of 0.26 mm, 64% lower than the current state-of-the-art. This enables the efficient capture of large datasets containing multiple people and diverse facial motions. Code, model, and data are publicly available at https://tempeh.is.tue.mpg.de. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Reviving Shift Equivariance in Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07470  
**Abstract:** Shift equivariance is a fundamental principle that governs how we perceive the world - our recognition of an object remains invariant with respect to shifts. Transformers have gained immense popularity due to their effectiveness in both language and vision tasks. While the self-attention operator in vision transformers (ViT) is permutation-equivariant and thus shift-equivariant, patch embedding, positional encoding, and subsampled attention in ViT variants can disrupt this property, resulting in inconsistent predictions even under small shift perturbations. Although there is a growing trend in incorporating the inductive bias of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) into vision transformers, it does not fully address the issue. We propose an adaptive polyphase anchoring algorithm that can be seamlessly integrated into vision transformer models to ensure shift-equivariance in patch embedding and subsampled attention modules, such as window attention and global subsampled attention. Furthermore, we utilize depth-wise convolution to encode positional information. Our algorithms enable ViT, and its variants such as Twins to achieve 100% consistency with respect to input shift, demonstrate robustness to cropping, flipping, and affine transformations, and maintain consistent predictions even when the original models lose 20 percentage points on average when shifted by just a few pixels with Twins' accuracy dropping from 80.57% to 62.40%. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** 3D molecule generation by denoising voxel grids  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07473  
**Abstract:** We propose a new score-based approach to generate 3D molecules represented as atomic densities on regular grids. First, we train a denoising neural network that learns to map from a smooth distribution of noisy molecules to the distribution of real molecules. Then, we follow the neural empirical Bayes framework [Saremi and Hyvarinen, 2019] and generate molecules in two steps: (i) sample noisy density grids from a smooth distribution via underdamped Langevin Markov chain Monte Carlo, and (ii) recover the ``clean'' molecule by denoising the noisy grid with a single step. Our method, VoxMol, generates molecules in a fundamentally different way than the current state of the art (i.e., diffusion models applied to atom point clouds). It differs in terms of the data representation, the noise model, the network architecture and the generative modeling algorithm. VoxMol achieves comparable results to state of the art on unconditional 3D molecule generation while being simpler to train and faster to generate molecules. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** AniFaceDrawing: Anime Portrait Exploration during Your Sketching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07476  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we focus on how artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to assist users in the creation of anime portraits, that is, converting rough sketches into anime portraits during their sketching process. The input is a sequence of incomplete freehand sketches that are gradually refined stroke by stroke, while the output is a sequence of high-quality anime portraits that correspond to the input sketches as guidance. Although recent GANs can generate high quality images, it is a challenging problem to maintain the high quality of generated images from sketches with a low degree of completion due to ill-posed problems in conditional image generation. Even with the latest sketch-to-image (S2I) technology, it is still difficult to create high-quality images from incomplete rough sketches for anime portraits since anime style tend to be more abstract than in realistic style. To address this issue, we adopt a latent space exploration of StyleGAN with a two-stage training strategy. We consider the input strokes of a freehand sketch to correspond to edge information-related attributes in the latent structural code of StyleGAN, and term the matching between strokes and these attributes stroke-level disentanglement. In the first stage, we trained an image encoder with the pre-trained StyleGAN model as a teacher encoder. In the second stage, we simulated the drawing process of the generated images without any additional data (labels) and trained the sketch encoder for incomplete progressive sketches to generate high-quality portrait images with feature alignment to the disentangled representations in the teacher encoder. We verified the proposed progressive S2I system with both qualitative and quantitative evaluations and achieved high-quality anime portraits from incomplete progressive sketches. Our user study proved its effectiveness in art creation assistance for the anime style. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Multi-objective Molecular Optimization for Opioid Use Disorder Treatment  Using Generative Network Complex  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07484  
**Abstract:** Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) has emerged as a significant global public health issue, with complex multifaceted conditions. Due to the lack of effective treatment options for various conditions, there is a pressing need for the discovery of new medications. In this study, we propose a deep generative model that combines a stochastic differential equation (SDE)-based diffusion modeling with the latent space of a pretrained autoencoder model. The molecular generator enables efficient generation of molecules that are effective on multiple targets, specifically the mu, kappa, and delta opioid receptors. Furthermore, we assess the ADMET (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity) properties of the generated molecules to identify drug-like compounds. To enhance the pharmacokinetic properties of some lead compounds, we employ a molecular optimization approach. We obtain a diverse set of drug-like molecules. We construct binding affinity predictors by integrating molecular fingerprints derived from autoencoder embeddings, transformer embeddings, and topological Laplacians with advanced machine learning algorithms. Further experimental studies are needed to evaluate the pharmacological effects of these drug-like compounds for OUD treatment. Our machine learning platform serves as a valuable tool in designing and optimizing effective molecules for addressing OUD. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Adding guardrails to advanced chatbots  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07500  
**Abstract:** Generative AI models continue to become more powerful. The launch of ChatGPT in November 2022 has ushered in a new era of AI. ChatGPT and other similar chatbots have a range of capabilities, from answering student homework questions to creating music and art. There are already concerns that humans may be replaced by chatbots for a variety of jobs. Because of the wide spectrum of data chatbots are built on, we know that they will have human errors and human biases built into them. These biases may cause significant harm and/or inequity toward different subpopulations. To understand the strengths and weakness of chatbot responses, we present a position paper that explores different use cases of ChatGPT to determine the types of questions that are answered fairly and the types that still need improvement. We find that ChatGPT is a fair search engine for the tasks we tested; however, it has biases on both text generation and code generation. We find that ChatGPT is very sensitive to changes in the prompt, where small changes lead to different levels of fairness. This suggests that we need to immediately implement "corrections" or mitigation strategies in order to improve fairness of these systems. We suggest different strategies to improve chatbots and also advocate for an impartial review panel that has access to the model parameters to measure the levels of different types of biases and then recommends safeguards that move toward responses that are less discriminatory and more accurate. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** User-defined Event Sampling and Uncertainty Quantification in Diffusion  Models for Physical Dynamical Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07526  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are a class of probabilistic generative models that have been widely used as a prior for image processing tasks like text conditional generation and inpainting. We demonstrate that these models can be adapted to make predictions and provide uncertainty quantification for chaotic dynamical systems. In these applications, diffusion models can implicitly represent knowledge about outliers and extreme events; however, querying that knowledge through conditional sampling or measuring probabilities is surprisingly difficult. Existing methods for conditional sampling at inference time seek mainly to enforce the constraints, which is insufficient to match the statistics of the distribution or compute the probability of the chosen events. To achieve these ends, optimally one would use the conditional score function, but its computation is typically intractable. In this work, we develop a probabilistic approximation scheme for the conditional score function which provably converges to the true distribution as the noise level decreases. With this scheme we are able to sample conditionally on nonlinear userdefined events at inference time, and matches data statistics even when sampling from the tails of the distribution. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** TART: A plug-and-play Transformer module for task-agnostic reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07536  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) exhibit in-context learning abilities which enable the same model to perform several tasks without any task-specific training. In contrast, traditional adaptation approaches, such as fine-tuning, modify the underlying models for each specific task. In-context learning, however, consistently underperforms task-specific tuning approaches even when presented with the same examples. While most existing approaches (e.g., prompt engineering) focus on the LLM's learned representations to patch this performance gap, our analysis actually reveal that LLM representations contain sufficient information to make good predictions. As such, we focus on the LLM's reasoning abilities and demonstrate that this performance gap exists due to their inability to perform simple probabilistic reasoning tasks. This raises an intriguing question: Are LLMs actually capable of learning how to reason in a task-agnostic manner? We answer this in the affirmative and propose TART which generically improves an LLM's reasoning abilities using a synthetically trained Transformer-based reasoning module. TART trains this reasoning module in a task-agnostic manner using only synthetic logistic regression tasks and composes it with an arbitrary real-world pre-trained model without any additional training. With a single inference module, TART improves performance across different model families (GPT-Neo, Pythia, BLOOM), model sizes (100M - 6B), tasks (14 NLP binary classification tasks), and even across different modalities (audio and vision). Additionally, on the RAFT Benchmark, TART improves GPT-Neo (125M)'s performance such that it outperforms BLOOM (176B), and is within 4% of GPT-3 (175B). Our code and models are available at https://github.com/HazyResearch/TART . 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** A Simple Unified Uncertainty-Guided Framework for Offline-to-Online  Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07541  
**Abstract:** Offline reinforcement learning (RL) provides a promising solution to learning an agent fully relying on a data-driven paradigm. However, constrained by the limited quality of the offline dataset, its performance is often sub-optimal. Therefore, it is desired to further finetune the agent via extra online interactions before deployment. Unfortunately, offline-to-online RL can be challenging due to two main challenges: constrained exploratory behavior and state-action distribution shift. To this end, we propose a Simple Unified uNcertainty-Guided (SUNG) framework, which naturally unifies the solution to both challenges with the tool of uncertainty. Specifically, SUNG quantifies uncertainty via a VAE-based state-action visitation density estimator. To facilitate efficient exploration, SUNG presents a practical optimistic exploration strategy to select informative actions with both high value and high uncertainty. Moreover, SUNG develops an adaptive exploitation method by applying conservative offline RL objectives to high-uncertainty samples and standard online RL objectives to low-uncertainty samples to smoothly bridge offline and online stages. SUNG achieves state-of-the-art online finetuning performance when combined with different offline RL methods, across various environments and datasets in D4RL benchmark. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** UniCATS: A Unified Context-Aware Text-to-Speech Framework with  Contextual VQ-Diffusion and Vocoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07547  
**Abstract:** The utilization of discrete speech tokens, divided into semantic tokens and acoustic tokens, has been proven superior to traditional acoustic feature mel-spectrograms in terms of naturalness and robustness for text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis. Recent popular models, such as VALL-E and SPEAR-TTS, allow zero-shot speaker adaptation through auto-regressive (AR) continuation of acoustic tokens extracted from a short speech prompt. However, these AR models are restricted to generate speech only in a left-to-right direction, making them unsuitable for speech editing where both preceding and following contexts are provided. Furthermore, these models rely on acoustic tokens, which have audio quality limitations imposed by the performance of audio codec models. In this study, we propose a unified context-aware TTS framework called UniCATS, which is capable of both speech continuation and editing. UniCATS comprises two components, an acoustic model CTX-txt2vec and a vocoder CTX-vec2wav. CTX-txt2vec employs contextual VQ-diffusion to predict semantic tokens from the input text, enabling it to incorporate the semantic context and maintain seamless concatenation with the surrounding context. Following that, CTX-vec2wav utilizes contextual vocoding to convert these semantic tokens into waveforms, taking into consideration the acoustic context. Our experimental results demonstrate that CTX-vec2wav outperforms HifiGAN and AudioLM in terms of speech resynthesis from semantic tokens. Moreover, we show that UniCATS achieves state-of-the-art performance in both speech continuation and editing. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Ethical Aspects of ChatGPT in Software Engineering Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07557  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT can improve Software Engineering (SE) research practices by offering efficient, accessible information analysis and synthesis based on natural language interactions. However, ChatGPT could bring ethical challenges, encompassing plagiarism, privacy, data security, and the risk of generating biased or potentially detrimental data. This research aims to fill the given gap by elaborating on the key elements: motivators, demotivators, and ethical principles of using ChatGPT in SE research. To achieve this objective, we conducted a literature survey, identified the mentioned elements, and presented their relationships by developing a taxonomy. Further, the identified literature-based elements (motivators, demotivators, and ethical principles) were empirically evaluated by conducting a comprehensive questionnaire-based survey involving SE researchers. Additionally, we employed Interpretive Structure Modeling (ISM) approach to analyze the relationships between the ethical principles of using ChatGPT in SE research and develop a level based decision model. We further conducted a Cross-Impact Matrix Multiplication Applied to Classification (MICMAC) analysis to create a cluster-based decision model. These models aim to help SE researchers devise effective strategies for ethically integrating ChatGPT into SE research by following the identified principles through adopting the motivators and addressing the demotivators. The findings of this study will establish a benchmark for incorporating ChatGPT services in SE research with an emphasis on ethical considerations. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Binary Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07581  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose binary radiance fields (BiRF), a storage-efficient radiance field representation employing binary feature encoding that encodes local features using binary encoding parameters in a format of either $+1$ or $-1$. This binarization strategy lets us represent the feature grid with highly compact feature encoding and a dramatic reduction in storage size. Furthermore, our 2D-3D hybrid feature grid design enhances the compactness of feature encoding as the 3D grid includes main components while 2D grids capture details. In our experiments, binary radiance field representation successfully outperforms the reconstruction performance of state-of-the-art (SOTA) efficient radiance field models with lower storage allocation. In particular, our model achieves impressive results in static scene reconstruction, with a PSNR of 31.53 dB for Synthetic-NeRF scenes, 34.26 dB for Synthetic-NSVF scenes, 28.02 dB for Tanks and Temples scenes while only utilizing 0.7 MB, 0.8 MB, and 0.8 MB of storage space, respectively. We hope the proposed binary radiance field representation will make radiance fields more accessible without a storage bottleneck. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** I See Dead People: Gray-Box Adversarial Attack on Image-To-Text Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07591  
**Abstract:** Modern image-to-text systems typically adopt the encoder-decoder framework, which comprises two main components: an image encoder, responsible for extracting image features, and a transformer-based decoder, used for generating captions. Taking inspiration from the analysis of neural networks' robustness against adversarial perturbations, we propose a novel gray-box algorithm for creating adversarial examples in image-to-text models. Unlike image classification tasks that have a finite set of class labels, finding visually similar adversarial examples in an image-to-text task poses greater challenges because the captioning system allows for a virtually infinite space of possible captions. In this paper, we present a gray-box adversarial attack on image-to-text, both untargeted and targeted. We formulate the process of discovering adversarial perturbations as an optimization problem that uses only the image-encoder component, meaning the proposed attack is language-model agnostic. Through experiments conducted on the ViT-GPT2 model, which is the most-used image-to-text model in Hugging Face, and the Flickr30k dataset, we demonstrate that our proposed attack successfully generates visually similar adversarial examples, both with untargeted and targeted captions. Notably, our attack operates in a gray-box manner, requiring no knowledge about the decoder module. We also show that our attacks fool the popular open-source platform Hugging Face. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Paste, Inpaint and Harmonize via Denoising: Subject-Driven Image Editing  with Pre-Trained Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07596  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image generative models have attracted rising attention for flexible image editing via user-specified descriptions. However, text descriptions alone are not enough to elaborate the details of subjects, often compromising the subjects' identity or requiring additional per-subject fine-tuning. We introduce a new framework called \textit{Paste, Inpaint and Harmonize via Denoising} (PhD), which leverages an exemplar image in addition to text descriptions to specify user intentions. In the pasting step, an off-the-shelf segmentation model is employed to identify a user-specified subject within an exemplar image which is subsequently inserted into a background image to serve as an initialization capturing both scene context and subject identity in one. To guarantee the visual coherence of the generated or edited image, we introduce an inpainting and harmonizing module to guide the pre-trained diffusion model to seamlessly blend the inserted subject into the scene naturally. As we keep the pre-trained diffusion model frozen, we preserve its strong image synthesis ability and text-driven ability, thus achieving high-quality results and flexible editing with diverse texts. In our experiments, we apply PhD to both subject-driven image editing tasks and explore text-driven scene generation given a reference subject. Both quantitative and qualitative comparisons with baseline methods demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance in both tasks. More qualitative results can be found at \url{https://sites.google.com/view/phd-demo-page}. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** UOD: Universal One-shot Detection of Anatomical Landmarks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07615  
**Abstract:** One-shot medical landmark detection gains much attention and achieves great success for its label-efficient training process. However, existing one-shot learning methods are highly specialized in a single domain and suffer domain preference heavily in the situation of multi-domain unlabeled data. Moreover, one-shot learning is not robust that it faces performance drop when annotating a sub-optimal image. To tackle these issues, we resort to developing a domain-adaptive one-shot landmark detection framework for handling multi-domain medical images, named Universal One-shot Detection (UOD). UOD consists of two stages and two corresponding universal models which are designed as combinations of domain-specific modules and domain-shared modules. In the first stage, a domain-adaptive convolution model is self-supervised learned to generate pseudo landmark labels. In the second stage, we design a domain-adaptive transformer to eliminate domain preference and build the global context for multi-domain data. Even though only one annotated sample from each domain is available for training, the domain-shared modules help UOD aggregate all one-shot samples to detect more robust and accurate landmarks. We investigated both qualitatively and quantitatively the proposed UOD on three widely-used public X-ray datasets in different anatomical domains (i.e., head, hand, chest) and obtained state-of-the-art performances in each domain. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Hyperbolic Graph Diffusion Model for Molecule Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07618  
**Abstract:** Recently, diffusion models have achieved remarkable performance in data generation, e.g., generating high-quality images. Nevertheless, chemistry molecules often have complex non-Euclidean spatial structures, with the behavior changing dynamically and unpredictably. Most existing diffusion models highly rely on computing the probability distribution, i.e., Gaussian distribution, in Euclidean space, which cannot capture internal non-Euclidean structures of molecules, especially the hierarchical structures of the implicit manifold surface represented by molecules. It has been observed that the complex hierarchical structures in hyperbolic embedding space become more prominent and easier to be captured. In order to leverage both the data generation power of diffusion models and the strong capability to extract complex geometric features of hyperbolic embedding, we propose to extend the diffusion model to hyperbolic manifolds for molecule generation, namely, Hyperbolic Graph Diffusion Model (HGDM). The proposed HGDM employs a hyperbolic variational autoencoder to generate the hyperbolic hidden representation of nodes and then a score-based hyperbolic graph neural network is used to learn the distribution in hyperbolic space. Numerical experimental results show that the proposed HGDM achieves higher performance on several molecular datasets, compared with state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Human-Like Intuitive Behavior and Reasoning Biases Emerged in Language  Models -- and Disappeared in GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07622  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) are currently at the forefront of intertwining AI systems with human communication and everyday life. Therefore, it is of great importance to evaluate their emerging abilities. In this study, we show that LLMs, most notably GPT-3, exhibit behavior that strikingly resembles human-like intuition -- and the cognitive errors that come with it. However, LLMs with higher cognitive capabilities, in particular ChatGPT and GPT-4, learned to avoid succumbing to these errors and perform in a hyperrational manner. For our experiments, we probe LLMs with the Cognitive Reflection Test (CRT) as well as semantic illusions that were originally designed to investigate intuitive decision-making in humans. Moreover, we probe how sturdy the inclination for intuitive-like decision-making is. Our study demonstrates that investigating LLMs with methods from psychology has the potential to reveal otherwise unknown emergent traits. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Sea Ice Segmentation From SAR Data by Convolutional Transformer Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07649  
**Abstract:** Sea ice is a crucial component of the Earth's climate system and is highly sensitive to changes in temperature and atmospheric conditions. Accurate and timely measurement of sea ice parameters is important for understanding and predicting the impacts of climate change. Nevertheless, the amount of satellite data acquired over ice areas is huge, making the subjective measurements ineffective. Therefore, automated algorithms must be used in order to fully exploit the continuous data feeds coming from satellites. In this paper, we present a novel approach for sea ice segmentation based on SAR satellite imagery using hybrid convolutional transformer (ConvTr) networks. We show that our approach outperforms classical convolutional networks, while being considerably more efficient than pure transformer models. ConvTr obtained a mean intersection over union (mIoU) of 63.68% on the AI4Arctic data set, assuming an inference time of 120ms for a 400 x 400 squared km product. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Tokenization with Factorized Subword Encoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07764  
**Abstract:** In recent years, language models have become increasingly larger and more complex. However, the input representations for these models continue to rely on simple and greedy subword tokenization methods. In this paper, we propose a novel tokenization method that factorizes subwords onto discrete triplets using a VQ-VAE model. The effectiveness of the proposed tokenization method, referred to as the Factorizer, is evaluated on language modeling and morpho-syntactic tasks for 7 diverse languages. Results indicate that this method is more appropriate and robust for morphological tasks than the commonly used byte-pair encoding (BPE) tokenization algorithm. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** A Cloud-based Machine Learning Pipeline for the Efficient Extraction of  Insights from Customer Reviews  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07786  
**Abstract:** The efficiency of natural language processing has improved dramatically with the advent of machine learning models, particularly neural network-based solutions. However, some tasks are still challenging, especially when considering specific domains. In this paper, we present a cloud-based system that can extract insights from customer reviews using machine learning methods integrated into a pipeline. For topic modeling, our composite model uses transformer-based neural networks designed for natural language processing, vector embedding-based keyword extraction, and clustering. The elements of our model have been integrated and further developed to meet better the requirements of efficient information extraction, topic modeling of the extracted information, and user needs. Furthermore, our system can achieve better results than this task's existing topic modeling and keyword extraction solutions. Our approach is validated and compared with other state-of-the-art methods using publicly available datasets for benchmarking. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Monolingual and Cross-Lingual Knowledge Transfer for Topic  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07797  
**Abstract:** This article investigates the knowledge transfer from the RuQTopics dataset. This Russian topical dataset combines a large sample number (361,560 single-label, 170,930 multi-label) with extensive class coverage (76 classes). We have prepared this dataset from the "Yandex Que" raw data. By evaluating the RuQTopics - trained models on the six matching classes of the Russian MASSIVE subset, we have proved that the RuQTopics dataset is suitable for real-world conversational tasks, as the Russian-only models trained on this dataset consistently yield an accuracy around 85\% on this subset. We also have figured out that for the multilingual BERT, trained on the RuQTopics and evaluated on the same six classes of MASSIVE (for all MASSIVE languages), the language-wise accuracy closely correlates (Spearman correlation 0.773 with p-value 2.997e-11) with the approximate size of the pretraining BERT's data for the corresponding language. At the same time, the correlation of the language-wise accuracy with the linguistical distance from Russian is not statistically significant. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** ChatGPT vs Human-authored Text: Insights into Controllable Text  Summarization and Sentence Style Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07799  
**Abstract:** Large-scale language models, like ChatGPT, have garnered significant media attention and stunned the public with their remarkable capacity for generating coherent text from short natural language prompts. In this paper, we aim to conduct a systematic inspection of ChatGPT's performance in two controllable generation tasks, with respect to ChatGPT's ability to adapt its output to different target audiences (expert vs. layman) and writing styles (formal vs. informal). Additionally, we evaluate the faithfulness of the generated text, and compare the model's performance with human-authored texts. Our findings indicate that the stylistic variations produced by humans are considerably larger than those demonstrated by ChatGPT, and the generated texts diverge from human samples in several characteristics, such as the distribution of word types. Moreover, we observe that ChatGPT sometimes incorporates factual errors or hallucinations when adapting the text to suit a specific style. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Viewset Diffusion: (0-)Image-Conditioned 3D Generative Models from 2D  Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07881  
**Abstract:** We present Viewset Diffusion: a framework for training image-conditioned 3D generative models from 2D data. Image-conditioned 3D generative models allow us to address the inherent ambiguity in single-view 3D reconstruction. Given one image of an object, there is often more than one possible 3D volume that matches the input image, because a single image never captures all sides of an object. Deterministic models are inherently limited to producing one possible reconstruction and therefore make mistakes in ambiguous settings. Modelling distributions of 3D shapes is challenging because 3D ground truth data is often not available. We propose to solve the issue of data availability by training a diffusion model which jointly denoises a multi-view image set.We constrain the output of Viewset Diffusion models to a single 3D volume per image set, guaranteeing consistent geometry. Training is done through reconstruction losses on renderings, allowing training with only three images per object. Our design of architecture and training scheme allows our model to perform 3D generation and generative, ambiguity-aware single-view reconstruction in a feed-forward manner. Project page: szymanowiczs.github.io/viewset-diffusion. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Image Captioners Are Scalable Vision Learners Too  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07915  
**Abstract:** Contrastive pretraining on image-text pairs from the web is one of the most popular large-scale pretraining strategies for vision backbones, especially in the context of large multimodal models. At the same time, image captioning on this type of data is commonly considered an inferior pretraining strategy. In this paper, we perform a fair comparison of these two pretraining strategies, carefully matching training data, compute, and model capacity. Using a standard encoder-decoder transformer, we find that captioning alone is surprisingly effective: on classification tasks, captioning produces vision encoders competitive with contrastively pretrained encoders, while surpassing them on vision & language tasks. We further analyze the effect of the model architecture and scale, as well as the pretraining data on the representation quality, and find that captioning exhibits the same or better scaling behavior along these axes. Overall our results show that plain image captioning is a more powerful pretraining strategy than was previously believed. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Understanding Telecom Language Through Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07933  
**Abstract:** The recent progress of artificial intelligence (AI) opens up new frontiers in the possibility of automating many tasks involved in Telecom networks design, implementation, and deployment. This has been further pushed forward with the evolution of generative artificial intelligence (AI), including the emergence of large language models (LLMs), which is believed to be the cornerstone toward realizing self-governed, interactive AI agents. Motivated by this, in this paper, we aim to adapt the paradigm of LLMs to the Telecom domain. In particular, we fine-tune several LLMs including BERT, distilled BERT, RoBERTa and GPT-2, to the Telecom domain languages, and demonstrate a use case for identifying the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) standard working groups. We consider training the selected models on 3GPP technical documents (Tdoc) pertinent to years 2009-2019 and predict the Tdoc categories in years 2020-2023. The results demonstrate that fine-tuning BERT and RoBERTa model achieves 84.6% accuracy, while GPT-2 model achieves 83% in identifying 3GPP working groups. The distilled BERT model with around 50% less parameters achieves similar performance as others. This corroborates that fine-tuning pretrained LLM can effectively identify the categories of Telecom language. The developed framework shows a stepping stone towards realizing intent-driven and self-evolving wireless networks from Telecom languages, and paves the way for the implementation of generative AI in the Telecom domain. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** GPT-Calls: Enhancing Call Segmentation and Tagging by Generating  Synthetic Conversations via Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07941  
**Abstract:** Transcriptions of phone calls are of significant value across diverse fields, such as sales, customer service, healthcare, and law enforcement. Nevertheless, the analysis of these recorded conversations can be an arduous and time-intensive process, especially when dealing with extended or multifaceted dialogues. In this work, we propose a novel method, GPT-distilled Calls Segmentation and Tagging (GPT-Calls), for efficient and accurate call segmentation and topic extraction. GPT-Calls is composed of offline and online phases. The offline phase is applied once to a given list of topics and involves generating a distribution of synthetic sentences for each topic using a GPT model and extracting anchor vectors. The online phase is applied to every call separately and scores the similarity between the transcripted conversation and the topic anchors found in the offline phase. Then, time domain analysis is applied to the similarity scores to group utterances into segments and tag them with topics. The proposed paradigm provides an accurate and efficient method for call segmentation and topic extraction that does not require labeled data, thus making it a versatile approach applicable to various domains. Our algorithm operates in production under Dynamics 365 Sales Conversation Intelligence, and our research is based on real sales conversations gathered from various Dynamics 365 Sales tenants. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** STUDY: Socially Aware Temporally Casual Decoder Recommender Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07946  
**Abstract:** With the overwhelming amount of data available both on and offline today, recommender systems have become much needed to help users find items tailored to their interests. When social network information exists there are methods that utilize this information to make better recommendations, however the methods are often clunky with complex architectures and training procedures. Furthermore many of the existing methods utilize graph neural networks which are notoriously difficult to train. To address this, we propose Socially-aware Temporally caUsal Decoder recommender sYstems (STUDY). STUDY does joint inference over groups of users who are adjacent in the social network graph using a single forward pass of a modified transformer decoder network. We test our method in a school-based educational content setting, using classroom structure to define social networks. Our method outperforms both social and sequential methods while maintaining the design simplicity of a single homogeneous network that models all interactions in the data. We also carry out ablation studies to understand the drivers of our performance gains and find that our model depends on leveraging a social network structure that effectively models the similarities in user behavior. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** MOFI: Learning Image Representations from Noisy Entity Annotated Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07952  
**Abstract:** We present MOFI, a new vision foundation model designed to learn image representations from noisy entity annotated images. MOFI differs from previous work in two key aspects: ($i$) pre-training data, and ($ii$) training recipe. Regarding data, we introduce a new approach to automatically assign entity labels to images from noisy image-text pairs. Our approach involves employing a named entity recognition model to extract entities from the alt-text, and then using a CLIP model to select the correct entities as labels of the paired image. The approach is simple, does not require costly human annotation, and can be readily scaled up to billions of image-text pairs mined from the web. Through this method, we have created Image-to-Entities (I2E), a new large-scale dataset with 1 billion images and 2 million distinct entities, covering rich visual concepts in the wild. Building upon the I2E dataset, we study different training recipes, including supervised pre-training, contrastive pre-training, and multi-task learning. For constrastive pre-training, we treat entity names as free-form text, and further enrich them with entity descriptions. Experiments show that supervised pre-training with large-scale fine-grained entity labels is highly effective for image retrieval tasks, and multi-task training further improves the performance. The final MOFI model achieves 86.66% mAP on the challenging GPR1200 dataset, surpassing the previous state-of-the-art performance of 72.19% from OpenAI's CLIP model. Further experiments on zero-shot and linear probe image classification also show that MOFI outperforms a CLIP model trained on the original image-text data, demonstrating the effectiveness of the I2E dataset in learning strong image representations. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Rerender A Video: Zero-Shot Text-Guided Video-to-Video Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07954  
**Abstract:** Large text-to-image diffusion models have exhibited impressive proficiency in generating high-quality images. However, when applying these models to video domain, ensuring temporal consistency across video frames remains a formidable challenge. This paper proposes a novel zero-shot text-guided video-to-video translation framework to adapt image models to videos. The framework includes two parts: key frame translation and full video translation. The first part uses an adapted diffusion model to generate key frames, with hierarchical cross-frame constraints applied to enforce coherence in shapes, textures and colors. The second part propagates the key frames to other frames with temporal-aware patch matching and frame blending. Our framework achieves global style and local texture temporal consistency at a low cost (without re-training or optimization). The adaptation is compatible with existing image diffusion techniques, allowing our framework to take advantage of them, such as customizing a specific subject with LoRA, and introducing extra spatial guidance with ControlNet. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed framework over existing methods in rendering high-quality and temporally-coherent videos. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** arXiVeri: Automatic table verification with GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07968  
**Abstract:** Without accurate transcription of numerical data in scientific documents, a scientist cannot draw accurate conclusions. Unfortunately, the process of copying numerical data from one paper to another is prone to human error. In this paper, we propose to meet this challenge through the novel task of automatic table verification (AutoTV), in which the objective is to verify the accuracy of numerical data in tables by cross-referencing cited sources. To support this task, we propose a new benchmark, arXiVeri, which comprises tabular data drawn from open-access academic papers on arXiv. We introduce metrics to evaluate the performance of a table verifier in two key areas: (i) table matching, which aims to identify the source table in a cited document that corresponds to a target table, and (ii) cell matching, which aims to locate shared cells between a target and source table and identify their row and column indices accurately. By leveraging the flexible capabilities of modern large language models (LLMs), we propose simple baselines for table verification. Our findings highlight the complexity of this task, even for state-of-the-art LLMs like OpenAI's GPT-4. The code and benchmark will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** GeneCIS: A Benchmark for General Conditional Image Similarity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07969  
**Abstract:** We argue that there are many notions of 'similarity' and that models, like humans, should be able to adapt to these dynamically. This contrasts with most representation learning methods, supervised or self-supervised, which learn a fixed embedding function and hence implicitly assume a single notion of similarity. For instance, models trained on ImageNet are biased towards object categories, while a user might prefer the model to focus on colors, textures or specific elements in the scene. In this paper, we propose the GeneCIS ('genesis') benchmark, which measures models' ability to adapt to a range of similarity conditions. Extending prior work, our benchmark is designed for zero-shot evaluation only, and hence considers an open-set of similarity conditions. We find that baselines from powerful CLIP models struggle on GeneCIS and that performance on the benchmark is only weakly correlated with ImageNet accuracy, suggesting that simply scaling existing methods is not fruitful. We further propose a simple, scalable solution based on automatically mining information from existing image-caption datasets. We find our method offers a substantial boost over the baselines on GeneCIS, and further improves zero-shot performance on related image retrieval benchmarks. In fact, though evaluated zero-shot, our model surpasses state-of-the-art supervised models on MIT-States. Project page at https://sgvaze.github.io/genecis/. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** XrayGPT: Chest Radiographs Summarization using Medical Vision-Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07971  
**Abstract:** The latest breakthroughs in large vision-language models, such as Bard and GPT-4, have showcased extraordinary abilities in performing a wide range of tasks. Such models are trained on massive datasets comprising billions of public image-text pairs with diverse tasks. However, their performance on task-specific domains, such as radiology, is still under-investigated and potentially limited due to a lack of sophistication in understanding biomedical images. On the other hand, conversational medical models have exhibited remarkable success but have mainly focused on text-based analysis. In this paper, we introduce XrayGPT, a novel conversational medical vision-language model that can analyze and answer open-ended questions about chest radiographs. Specifically, we align both medical visual encoder (MedClip) with a fine-tuned large language model (Vicuna), using a simple linear transformation. This alignment enables our model to possess exceptional visual conversation abilities, grounded in a deep understanding of radiographs and medical domain knowledge. To enhance the performance of LLMs in the medical context, we generate ~217k interactive and high-quality summaries from free-text radiology reports. These summaries serve to enhance the performance of LLMs through the fine-tuning process. Our approach opens up new avenues the research for advancing the automated analysis of chest radiographs. Our open-source demos, models, and instruction sets are available at: https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/XrayGPT. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Deep Ultrasound Denoising Using Diffusion Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07440  
**Abstract:** Ultrasound images are widespread in medical diagnosis for musculoskeletal, cardiac, and obstetrical imaging due to the efficiency and non-invasiveness of the acquisition methodology. However, the acquired images are degraded by acoustic (e.g. reverberation and clutter) and electronic sources of noise. To improve the Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR) of the images, previous denoising methods often remove the speckles, which could be informative for radiologists and also for quantitative ultrasound. Herein, a method based on the recent Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) is proposed. It iteratively enhances the image quality by eliminating the noise while preserving the speckle texture. It is worth noting that the proposed method is trained in a completely unsupervised manner, and no annotated data is required. The experimental blind test results show that our method outperforms the previous nonlocal means denoising methods in terms of PSNR and Generalized Contrast to Noise Ratio (GCNR) while preserving speckles. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Towards a Machine-Learned Poisson Solver for Low-Temperature Plasma  Simulations in Complex Geometries  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07604  
**Abstract:** Poisson's equation plays an important role in modeling many physical systems. In electrostatic self-consistent low-temperature plasma (LTP) simulations, Poisson's equation is solved at each simulation time step, which can amount to a significant computational cost for the entire simulation. In this paper, we describe the development of a generic machine-learned Poisson solver specifically designed for the requirements of LTP simulations in complex 2D reactor geometries on structured Cartesian grids. Here, the reactor geometries can consist of inner electrodes and dielectric materials as often found in LTP simulations. The approach leverages a hybrid CNN-transformer network architecture in combination with a weighted multiterm loss function. We train the network using highly-randomized synthetic data to ensure the generalizability of the learned solver to unseen reactor geometries. The results demonstrate that the learned solver is able to produce quantitatively and qualitatively accurate solutions. Furthermore, it generalizes well on new reactor geometries such as reference geometries found in the literature. To increase the numerical accuracy of the solutions required in LTP simulations, we employ a conventional iterative solver to refine the raw predictions, especially to recover the high-frequency features not resolved by the initial prediction. With this, the proposed learned Poisson solver provides the required accuracy and is potentially faster than a pure GPU-based conventional iterative solver. This opens up new possibilities for developing a generic and high-performing learned Poisson solver for LTP systems in complex geometries. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** StyleTTS 2: Towards Human-Level Text-to-Speech through Style Diffusion  and Adversarial Training with Large Speech Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07691  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present StyleTTS 2, a text-to-speech (TTS) model that leverages style diffusion and adversarial training with large speech language models (SLMs) to achieve human-level TTS synthesis. StyleTTS 2 differs from its predecessor by modeling styles as a latent random variable through diffusion models to generate the most suitable style for the text without requiring reference speech, achieving efficient latent diffusion while benefiting from the diverse speech synthesis offered by diffusion models. Furthermore, we employ large pre-trained SLMs, such as WavLM, as discriminators with our novel differentiable duration modeling for end-to-end training, resulting in improved speech naturalness. StyleTTS 2 surpasses human recordings on the single-speaker LJSpeech dataset and matches it on the multispeaker VCTK dataset as judged by native English speakers. Moreover, when trained on the LibriTTS dataset, our model outperforms previous publicly available models for zero-shot speaker adaptation. This work achieves the first human-level TTS on both single and multispeaker datasets, showcasing the potential of style diffusion and adversarial training with large SLMs. The audio demos and source code are available at https://styletts2.github.io/. 

