**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Feature Engineering-Based Detection of Buffer Overflow Vulnerability in  Source Code Using Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.07981  
**Abstract:** One of the most significant challenges in the field of software code auditing is the presence of vulnerabilities in software source code. Every year, more and more software flaws are discovered, either internally in proprietary code or publicly disclosed. These flaws are highly likely to be exploited and can lead to system compromise, data leakage, or denial of service. To create a large-scale machine learning system for function level vulnerability identification, we utilized a sizable dataset of C and C++ open-source code containing millions of functions with potential buffer overflow exploits. We have developed an efficient and scalable vulnerability detection method based on neural network models that learn features extracted from the source codes. The source code is first converted into an intermediate representation to remove unnecessary components and shorten dependencies. We maintain the semantic and syntactic information using state of the art word embedding algorithms such as GloVe and fastText. The embedded vectors are subsequently fed into neural networks such as LSTM, BiLSTM, LSTM Autoencoder, word2vec, BERT, and GPT2 to classify the possible vulnerabilities. We maintain the semantic and syntactic information using state of the art word embedding algorithms such as GloVe and fastText. The embedded vectors are subsequently fed into neural networks such as LSTM, BiLSTM, LSTM Autoencoder, word2vec, BERT, and GPT2 to classify the possible vulnerabilities. Furthermore, we have proposed a neural network model that can overcome issues associated with traditional neural networks. We have used evaluation metrics such as F1 score, precision, recall, accuracy, and total execution time to measure the performance. We have conducted a comparative analysis between results derived from features containing a minimal text representation and semantic and syntactic information. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Domain Information Control at Inference Time for Acoustic Scene  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08010  
**Abstract:** Domain shift is considered a challenge in machine learning as it causes significant degradation of model performance. In the Acoustic Scene Classification task (ASC), domain shift is mainly caused by different recording devices. Several studies have already targeted domain generalization to improve the performance of ASC models on unseen domains, such as new devices. Recently, the Controllable Gate Adapter ConGater has been proposed in Natural Language Processing to address the biased training data problem. ConGater allows controlling the debiasing process at inference time. ConGater's main advantage is the continuous and selective debiasing of a trained model, during inference. In this work, we adapt ConGater to the audio spectrogram transformer for an acoustic scene classification task. We show that ConGater can be used to selectively adapt the learned representations to be invariant to device domain shifts such as recording devices. Our analysis shows that ConGater can progressively remove device information from the learned representations and improve the model generalization, especially under domain shift conditions (e.g. unseen devices). We show that information removal can be extended to both device and location domain. Finally, we demonstrate ConGater's ability to enhance specific device performance without further training. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** FLamE: Few-shot Learning from Natural Language Explanations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08042  
**Abstract:** Natural language explanations have the potential to provide rich information that in principle guides model reasoning. Yet, recent work by Lampinen et al. (2022) has shown limited utility of natural language explanations in improving classification. To effectively learn from explanations, we present FLamE, a two-stage few-shot learning framework that first generates explanations using GPT-3, and then finetunes a smaller model (e.g., RoBERTa) with generated explanations. Our experiments on natural language inference demonstrate effectiveness over strong baselines, increasing accuracy by 17.6% over GPT-3 Babbage and 5.7% over GPT-3 Davinci in e-SNLI. Despite improving classification performance, human evaluation surprisingly reveals that the majority of generated explanations does not adequately justify classification decisions. Additional analyses point to the important role of label-specific cues (e.g., "not know" for the neutral label) in generated explanations. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Efficient 3D Semantic Segmentation with Superpoint Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08045  
**Abstract:** We introduce a novel superpoint-based transformer architecture for efficient semantic segmentation of large-scale 3D scenes. Our method incorporates a fast algorithm to partition point clouds into a hierarchical superpoint structure, which makes our preprocessing 7 times times faster than existing superpoint-based approaches. Additionally, we leverage a self-attention mechanism to capture the relationships between superpoints at multiple scales, leading to state-of-the-art performance on three challenging benchmark datasets: S3DIS (76.0% mIoU 6-fold validation), KITTI-360 (63.5% on Val), and DALES (79.6%). With only 212k parameters, our approach is up to 200 times more compact than other state-of-the-art models while maintaining similar performance. Furthermore, our model can be trained on a single GPU in 3 hours for a fold of the S3DIS dataset, which is 7x to 70x fewer GPU-hours than the best-performing methods. Our code and models are accessible at github.com/drprojects/superpoint_transformer. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Few-shot learning for sentence pair classification and its applications  in software engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08058  
**Abstract:** Few-shot learning-the ability to train models with access to limited data-has become increasingly popular in the natural language processing (NLP) domain, as large language models such as GPT and T0 have been empirically shown to achieve high performance in numerous tasks with access to just a handful of labeled examples. Smaller language models such as BERT and its variants have also been shown to achieve strong performance with just a handful of labeled examples when combined with few-shot learning algorithms like pattern-exploiting training (PET) and SetFit. The focus of this work is to investigate the performance of alternative few-shot learning approaches with BERT-based models. Specifically, vanilla fine-tuning, PET and SetFit are compared for numerous BERT-based checkpoints over an array of training set sizes. To facilitate this investigation, applications of few-shot learning are considered in software engineering. For each task, high-performance techniques and their associated model checkpoints are identified through detailed empirical analysis. Our results establish PET as a strong few-shot learning approach, and our analysis shows that with just a few hundred labeled examples it can achieve performance near that of fine-tuning on full-sized data sets. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** DORSal: Diffusion for Object-centric Representations of Scenes  $\textit{et al.}$  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08068  
**Abstract:** Recent progress in 3D scene understanding enables scalable learning of representations across large datasets of diverse scenes. As a consequence, generalization to unseen scenes and objects, rendering novel views from just a single or a handful of input images, and controllable scene generation that supports editing, is now possible. However, training jointly on a large number of scenes typically compromises rendering quality when compared to single-scene optimized models such as NeRFs. In this paper, we leverage recent progress in diffusion models to equip 3D scene representation learning models with the ability to render high-fidelity novel views, while retaining benefits such as object-level scene editing to a large degree. In particular, we propose DORSal, which adapts a video diffusion architecture for 3D scene generation conditioned on object-centric slot-based representations of scenes. On both complex synthetic multi-object scenes and on the real-world large-scale Street View dataset, we show that DORSal enables scalable neural rendering of 3D scenes with object-level editing and improves upon existing approaches. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Dynamic Clustering Transformer Network for Point Cloud Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08073  
**Abstract:** Point cloud segmentation is one of the most important tasks in computer vision with widespread scientific, industrial, and commercial applications. The research thereof has resulted in many breakthroughs in 3D object and scene understanding. Previous methods typically utilized hierarchical architectures for feature representation. However, the commonly used sampling and grouping methods in hierarchical networks are only based on point-wise three-dimensional coordinates, ignoring local semantic homogeneity of point clusters. Additionally, the prevalent Farthest Point Sampling (FPS) method is often a computational bottleneck. To address these issues, we propose a novel 3D point cloud representation network, called Dynamic Clustering Transformer Network (DCTNet). It has an encoder-decoder architecture, allowing for both local and global feature learning. Specifically, we propose novel semantic feature-based dynamic sampling and clustering methods in the encoder, which enables the model to be aware of local semantic homogeneity for local feature aggregation. Furthermore, in the decoder, we propose an efficient semantic feature-guided upsampling method. Our method was evaluated on an object-based dataset (ShapeNet), an urban navigation dataset (Toronto-3D), and a multispectral LiDAR dataset, verifying the performance of DCTNet across a wide variety of practical engineering applications. The inference speed of DCTNet is 3.8-16.8$\times$ faster than existing State-of-the-Art (SOTA) models on the ShapeNet dataset, while achieving an instance-wise mIoU of $86.6\%$, the current top score. Our method similarly outperforms previous methods on the other datasets, verifying it as the new State-of-the-Art in point cloud segmentation. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Can ChatGPT Enable ITS? The Case of Mixed Traffic Control via  Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08094  
**Abstract:** The surge in Reinforcement Learning (RL) applications in Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) has contributed to its growth as well as highlighted key challenges. However, defining objectives of RL agents in traffic control and management tasks, as well as aligning policies with these goals through an effective formulation of Markov Decision Process (MDP), can be challenging and often require domain experts in both RL and ITS. Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 highlight their broad general knowledge, reasoning capabilities, and commonsense priors across various domains. In this work, we conduct a large-scale user study involving 70 participants to investigate whether novices can leverage ChatGPT to solve complex mixed traffic control problems. Three environments are tested, including ring road, bottleneck, and intersection. We find ChatGPT has mixed results. For intersection and bottleneck, ChatGPT increases number of successful policies by 150% and 136% compared to solely beginner capabilities, with some of them even outperforming experts. However, ChatGPT does not provide consistent improvements across all scenarios. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Adding 3D Geometry Control to Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08103  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as a powerful method of generative modeling across a range of fields, capable of producing stunning photo-realistic images from natural language descriptions. However, these models lack explicit control over the 3D structure of the objects in the generated images. In this paper, we propose a novel method that incorporates 3D geometry control into diffusion models, making them generate even more realistic and diverse images. To achieve this, our method exploits ControlNet, which extends diffusion models by using visual prompts in addition to text prompts. We generate images of 3D objects taken from a 3D shape repository (e.g., ShapeNet and Objaverse), render them from a variety of poses and viewing directions, compute the edge maps of the rendered images, and use these edge maps as visual prompts to generate realistic images. With explicit 3D geometry control, we can easily change the 3D structures of the objects in the generated images and obtain ground-truth 3D annotations automatically. This allows us to use the generated images to improve a lot of vision tasks, e.g., classification and 3D pose estimation, in both in-distribution (ID) and out-of-distribution (OOD) settings. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method through extensive experiments on ImageNet-50, ImageNet-R, PASCAL3D+, ObjectNet3D, and OOD-CV datasets. The results show that our method significantly outperforms existing methods across multiple benchmarks (e.g., 4.6 percentage points on ImageNet-50 using ViT and 3.5 percentage points on PASCAL3D+ and ObjectNet3D using NeMo). 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Better Generalization with Semantic IDs: A case study in Ranking for  Recommendations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08121  
**Abstract:** Training good representations for items is critical in recommender models. Typically, an item is assigned a unique randomly generated ID, and is commonly represented by learning an embedding corresponding to the value of the random ID. Although widely used, this approach have limitations when the number of items are large and items are power-law distributed -- typical characteristics of real-world recommendation systems. This leads to the item cold-start problem, where the model is unable to make reliable inferences for tail and previously unseen items. Removing these ID features and their learned embeddings altogether to combat cold-start issue severely degrades the recommendation quality. Content-based item embeddings are more reliable, but they are expensive to store and use, particularly for users' past item interaction sequence. In this paper, we use Semantic IDs, a compact discrete item representations learned from content embeddings using RQ-VAE that captures hierarchy of concepts in items. We showcase how we use them as a replacement of item IDs in a resource-constrained ranking model used in an industrial-scale video sharing platform. Moreover, we show how Semantic IDs improves the generalization ability of our system, without sacrificing top-level metrics. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** h2oGPT: Democratizing Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08161  
**Abstract:** Foundation Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 represent a revolution in AI due to their real-world applications though natural language processing. However, they also pose many significant risks such as the presence of biased, private, or harmful text, and the unauthorized inclusion of copyrighted material. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Safeguarding Data in Multimodal AI: A Differentially Private Approach to  CLIP Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08173  
**Abstract:** The surge in multimodal AI's success has sparked concerns over data privacy in vision-and-language tasks. While CLIP has revolutionized multimodal learning through joint training on images and text, its potential to unintentionally disclose sensitive information necessitates the integration of privacy-preserving mechanisms. We introduce a differentially private adaptation of the Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining (CLIP) model that effectively addresses privacy concerns while retaining accuracy. Our proposed method, Dp-CLIP, is rigorously evaluated on benchmark datasets encompassing diverse vision-and-language tasks such as image classification and visual question answering. We demonstrate that our approach retains performance on par with the standard non-private CLIP model. Furthermore, we analyze our proposed algorithm under linear representation settings. We derive the convergence rate of our algorithm and show a trade-off between utility and privacy when gradients are clipped per-batch and the loss function does not satisfy smoothness conditions assumed in the literature for the analysis of DP-SGD. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** ChatGPT vs. Lightweight Security: First Work Implementing the NIST  Cryptographic Standard ASCON  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08178  
**Abstract:** This study, to the best of our knowledge, is the first to explore the intersection between lightweight cryptography (LWC) and advanced artificial intelligence (AI) language models. LWC, in particular the ASCON algorithm which has been selected as the LWC standard by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in Feb. 2023, has become increasingly significant for preserving data security given the quick expansion and resource limitations of Internet of Things (IoT) devices. On the other hand, OpenAI's large language model (LLM) ChatGPT has demonstrated significant potential in producing complex, human-like text. This paper offers a novel method for implementing the NIST LWC standard, ASCON, using the GPT-4 model. Moreover, this paper details the design and functionality of ASCON, the procedures and actual Python implementation of ASCON using ChatGPT, and a discussion of the outcomes. The results contribute valuable insights into the efficient application of advanced AI language models in cryptography, particularly in constrained environments. Source code can be found at: https://github.com/DrCintas/ASCON-with-ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** ZeroForge: Feedforward Text-to-Shape Without 3D Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08183  
**Abstract:** Current state-of-the-art methods for text-to-shape generation either require supervised training using a labeled dataset of pre-defined 3D shapes, or perform expensive inference-time optimization of implicit neural representations. In this work, we present ZeroForge, an approach for zero-shot text-to-shape generation that avoids both pitfalls. To achieve open-vocabulary shape generation, we require careful architectural adaptation of existing feed-forward approaches, as well as a combination of data-free CLIP-loss and contrastive losses to avoid mode collapse. Using these techniques, we are able to considerably expand the generative ability of existing feed-forward text-to-shape models such as CLIP-Forge. We support our method via extensive qualitative and quantitative evaluations 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Language models are not naysayers: An analysis of language models on  negation benchmarks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08189  
**Abstract:** Negation has been shown to be a major bottleneck for masked language models, such as BERT. However, whether this finding still holds for larger-sized auto-regressive language models (``LLMs'') has not been studied comprehensively. With the ever-increasing volume of research and applications of LLMs, we take a step back to evaluate the ability of current-generation LLMs to handle negation, a fundamental linguistic phenomenon that is central to language understanding. We evaluate different LLMs -- including the open-source GPT-neo, GPT-3, and InstructGPT -- against a wide range of negation benchmarks. Through systematic experimentation with varying model sizes and prompts, we show that LLMs have several limitations including insensitivity to the presence of negation, an inability to capture the lexical semantics of negation, and a failure to reason under negation. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Assessing the Effectiveness of GPT-3 in Detecting False Political  Statements: A Case Study on the LIAR Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08190  
**Abstract:** The detection of political fake statements is crucial for maintaining information integrity and preventing the spread of misinformation in society. Historically, state-of-the-art machine learning models employed various methods for detecting deceptive statements. These methods include the use of metadata (W. Wang et al., 2018), n-grams analysis (Singh et al., 2021), and linguistic (Wu et al., 2022) and stylometric (Islam et al., 2020) features. Recent advancements in large language models, such as GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020) have achieved state-of-the-art performance on a wide range of tasks. In this study, we conducted experiments with GPT-3 on the LIAR dataset (W. Wang et al., 2018) and achieved higher accuracy than state-of-the-art models without using any additional meta or linguistic features. Additionally, we experimented with zero-shot learning using a carefully designed prompt and achieved near state-of-the-art performance. An advantage of this approach is that the model provided evidence for its decision, which adds transparency to the model's decision-making and offers a chance for users to verify the validity of the evidence provided. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Unraveling the ARC Puzzle: Mimicking Human Solutions with Object-Centric  Decision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08204  
**Abstract:** In the pursuit of artificial general intelligence (AGI), we tackle Abstraction and Reasoning Corpus (ARC) tasks using a novel two-pronged approach. We employ the Decision Transformer in an imitation learning paradigm to model human problem-solving, and introduce an object detection algorithm, the Push and Pull clustering method. This dual strategy enhances AI's ARC problem-solving skills and provides insights for AGI progression. Yet, our work reveals the need for advanced data collection tools, robust training datasets, and refined model structures. This study highlights potential improvements for Decision Transformers and propels future AGI research. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Ball Trajectory Inference from Multi-Agent Sports Contexts Using Set  Transformer and Hierarchical Bi-LSTM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08206  
**Abstract:** As artificial intelligence spreads out to numerous fields, the application of AI to sports analytics is also in the spotlight. However, one of the major challenges is the difficulty of automated acquisition of continuous movement data during sports matches. In particular, it is a conundrum to reliably track a tiny ball on a wide soccer pitch with obstacles such as occlusion and imitations. Tackling the problem, this paper proposes an inference framework of ball trajectory from player trajectories as a cost-efficient alternative to ball tracking. We combine Set Transformers to get permutation-invariant and equivariant representations of the multi-agent contexts with a hierarchical architecture that intermediately predicts the player ball possession to support the final trajectory inference. Also, we introduce the reality loss term and postprocessing to secure the estimated trajectories to be physically realistic. The experimental results show that our model provides natural and accurate trajectories as well as admissible player ball possession at the same time. Lastly, we suggest several practical applications of our framework including missing trajectory imputation, semi-automated pass annotation, automated zoom-in for match broadcasting, and calculating possession-wise running performance metrics. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Towards Building Voice-based Conversational Recommender Systems:  Datasets, Potential Solutions, and Prospects  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08219  
**Abstract:** Conversational recommender systems (CRSs) have become crucial emerging research topics in the field of RSs, thanks to their natural advantages of explicitly acquiring user preferences via interactive conversations and revealing the reasons behind recommendations. However, the majority of current CRSs are text-based, which is less user-friendly and may pose challenges for certain users, such as those with visual impairments or limited writing and reading abilities. Therefore, for the first time, this paper investigates the potential of voice-based CRS (VCRSs) to revolutionize the way users interact with RSs in a natural, intuitive, convenient, and accessible fashion. To support such studies, we create two VCRSs benchmark datasets in the e-commerce and movie domains, after realizing the lack of such datasets through an exhaustive literature review. Specifically, we first empirically verify the benefits and necessity of creating such datasets. Thereafter, we convert the user-item interactions to text-based conversations through the ChatGPT-driven prompts for generating diverse and natural templates, and then synthesize the corresponding audios via the text-to-speech model. Meanwhile, a number of strategies are delicately designed to ensure the naturalness and high quality of voice conversations. On this basis, we further explore the potential solutions and point out possible directions to build end-to-end VCRSs by seamlessly extracting and integrating voice-based inputs, thus delivering performance-enhanced, self-explainable, and user-friendly VCRSs. Our study aims to establish the foundation and motivate further pioneering research in the emerging field of VCRSs. This aligns with the principles of explainable AI and AI for social good, viz., utilizing technology's potential to create a fair, sustainable, and just world. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** CLIPXPlore: Coupled CLIP and Shape Spaces for 3D Shape Exploration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08226  
**Abstract:** This paper presents CLIPXPlore, a new framework that leverages a vision-language model to guide the exploration of the 3D shape space. Many recent methods have been developed to encode 3D shapes into a learned latent shape space to enable generative design and modeling. Yet, existing methods lack effective exploration mechanisms, despite the rich information. To this end, we propose to leverage CLIP, a powerful pre-trained vision-language model, to aid the shape-space exploration. Our idea is threefold. First, we couple the CLIP and shape spaces by generating paired CLIP and shape codes through sketch images and training a mapper network to connect the two spaces. Second, to explore the space around a given shape, we formulate a co-optimization strategy to search for the CLIP code that better matches the geometry of the shape. Third, we design three exploration modes, binary-attribute-guided, text-guided, and sketch-guided, to locate suitable exploration trajectories in shape space and induce meaningful changes to the shape. We perform a series of experiments to quantitatively and visually compare CLIPXPlore with different baselines in each of the three exploration modes, showing that CLIPXPlore can produce many meaningful exploration results that cannot be achieved by the existing solutions. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Diffusion in Diffusion: Cyclic One-Way Diffusion for  Text-Vision-Conditioned Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08247  
**Abstract:** Text-to-Image (T2I) generation with diffusion models allows users to control the semantic content in the synthesized images given text conditions. As a further step toward a more customized image creation application, we introduce a new multi-modality generation setting that synthesizes images based on not only the semantic-level textual input but also on the pixel-level visual conditions. Existing literature first converts the given visual information to semantic-level representation by connecting it to languages, and then incorporates it into the original denoising process. Seemingly intuitive, such methodological design loses the pixel values during the semantic transition, thus failing to fulfill the task scenario where the preservation of low-level vision is desired (e.g., ID of a given face image). To this end, we propose Cyclic One-Way Diffusion (COW), a training-free framework for creating customized images with respect to semantic text and pixel-visual conditioning. Notably, we observe that sub-regions of an image impose mutual interference, just like physical diffusion, to achieve ultimate harmony along the denoising trajectory. Thus we propose to repetitively utilize the given visual condition in a cyclic way, by planting the visual condition as a high-concentration ``seed'' at the initialization step of the denoising process, and ``diffuse'' it into a harmonious picture by controlling a one-way information flow from the visual condition. We repeat the destroy-and-construct process multiple times to gradually but steadily impose the internal diffusion process within the image. Experiments on the challenging one-shot face and text-conditioned image synthesis task demonstrate our superiority in terms of speed, image quality, and conditional fidelity compared to learning-based text-vision conditional methods. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Deblurring Masked Autoencoder is Better Recipe for Ultrasound Image  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08249  
**Abstract:** Masked autoencoder (MAE) has attracted unprecedented attention and achieves remarkable performance in many vision tasks. It reconstructs random masked image patches (known as proxy task) during pretraining and learns meaningful semantic representations that can be transferred to downstream tasks. However, MAE has not been thoroughly explored in ultrasound imaging. In this work, we investigate the potential of MAE for ultrasound image recognition. Motivated by the unique property of ultrasound imaging in high noise-to-signal ratio, we propose a novel deblurring MAE approach that incorporates deblurring into the proxy task during pretraining. The addition of deblurring facilitates the pretraining to better recover the subtle details presented in the ultrasound images, thus improving the performance of the downstream classification task. Our experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our deblurring MAE, achieving state-of-the-art performance in ultrasound image classification. Overall, our work highlights the potential of MAE for ultrasound image recognition and presents a novel approach that incorporates deblurring to further improve its effectiveness. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** GBSD: Generative Bokeh with Stage Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08251  
**Abstract:** The bokeh effect is an artistic technique that blurs out-of-focus areas in a photograph and has gained interest due to recent developments in text-to-image synthesis and the ubiquity of smart-phone cameras and photo-sharing apps. Prior work on rendering bokeh effects have focused on post hoc image manipulation to produce similar blurring effects in existing photographs using classical computer graphics or neural rendering techniques, but have either depth discontinuity artifacts or are restricted to reproducing bokeh effects that are present in the training data. More recent diffusion based models can synthesize images with an artistic style, but either require the generation of high-dimensional masks, expensive fine-tuning, or affect global image characteristics. In this paper, we present GBSD, the first generative text-to-image model that synthesizes photorealistic images with a bokeh style. Motivated by how image synthesis occurs progressively in diffusion models, our approach combines latent diffusion models with a 2-stage conditioning algorithm to render bokeh effects on semantically defined objects. Since we can focus the effect on objects, this semantic bokeh effect is more versatile than classical rendering techniques. We evaluate GBSD both quantitatively and qualitatively and demonstrate its ability to be applied in both text-to-image and image-to-image settings. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** On the Robustness of Latent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08257  
**Abstract:** Latent diffusion models achieve state-of-the-art performance on a variety of generative tasks, such as image synthesis and image editing. However, the robustness of latent diffusion models is not well studied. Previous works only focus on the adversarial attacks against the encoder or the output image under white-box settings, regardless of the denoising process. Therefore, in this paper, we aim to analyze the robustness of latent diffusion models more thoroughly. We first study the influence of the components inside latent diffusion models on their white-box robustness. In addition to white-box scenarios, we evaluate the black-box robustness of latent diffusion models via transfer attacks, where we consider both prompt-transfer and model-transfer settings and possible defense mechanisms. However, all these explorations need a comprehensive benchmark dataset, which is missing in the literature. Therefore, to facilitate the research of the robustness of latent diffusion models, we propose two automatic dataset construction pipelines for two kinds of image editing models and release the whole dataset. Our code and dataset are available at \url{https://github.com/jpzhang1810/LDM-Robustness}. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** TryOnDiffusion: A Tale of Two UNets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08276  
**Abstract:** Given two images depicting a person and a garment worn by another person, our goal is to generate a visualization of how the garment might look on the input person. A key challenge is to synthesize a photorealistic detail-preserving visualization of the garment, while warping the garment to accommodate a significant body pose and shape change across the subjects. Previous methods either focus on garment detail preservation without effective pose and shape variation, or allow try-on with the desired shape and pose but lack garment details. In this paper, we propose a diffusion-based architecture that unifies two UNets (referred to as Parallel-UNet), which allows us to preserve garment details and warp the garment for significant pose and body change in a single network. The key ideas behind Parallel-UNet include: 1) garment is warped implicitly via a cross attention mechanism, 2) garment warp and person blend happen as part of a unified process as opposed to a sequence of two separate tasks. Experimental results indicate that TryOnDiffusion achieves state-of-the-art performance both qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Unifying Large Language Models and Knowledge Graphs: A Roadmap  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08302  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT4, are making new waves in the field of natural language processing and artificial intelligence, due to their emergent ability and generalizability. However, LLMs are black-box models, which often fall short of capturing and accessing factual knowledge. In contrast, Knowledge Graphs (KGs), Wikipedia and Huapu for example, are structured knowledge models that explicitly store rich factual knowledge. KGs can enhance LLMs by providing external knowledge for inference and interpretability. Meanwhile, KGs are difficult to construct and evolving by nature, which challenges the existing methods in KGs to generate new facts and represent unseen knowledge. Therefore, it is complementary to unify LLMs and KGs together and simultaneously leverage their advantages. In this article, we present a forward-looking roadmap for the unification of LLMs and KGs. Our roadmap consists of three general frameworks, namely, 1) KG-enhanced LLMs, which incorporate KGs during the pre-training and inference phases of LLMs, or for the purpose of enhancing understanding of the knowledge learned by LLMs; 2) LLM-augmented KGs, that leverage LLMs for different KG tasks such as embedding, completion, construction, graph-to-text generation, and question answering; and 3) Synergized LLMs + KGs, in which LLMs and KGs play equal roles and work in a mutually beneficial way to enhance both LLMs and KGs for bidirectional reasoning driven by both data and knowledge. We review and summarize existing efforts within these three frameworks in our roadmap and pinpoint their future research directions. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Research on Named Entity Recognition in Improved transformer with R-Drop  structure  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08315  
**Abstract:** To enhance the generalization ability of the model and improve the effectiveness of the transformer for named entity recognition tasks, the XLNet-Transformer-R model is proposed in this paper. The XLNet pre-trained model and the Transformer encoder with relative positional encodings are combined to enhance the model's ability to process long text and learn contextual information to improve robustness. To prevent overfitting, the R-Drop structure is used to improve the generalization capability and enhance the accuracy of the model in named entity recognition tasks. The model in this paper performs ablation experiments on the MSRA dataset and comparison experiments with other models on four datasets with excellent performance, demonstrating the strategic effectiveness of the XLNet-Transformer-R model. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** GCformer: An Efficient Framework for Accurate and Scalable Long-Term  Multivariate Time Series Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08325  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based models have emerged as promising tools for time series forecasting. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Distribution Shift Inversion for Out-of-Distribution Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08328  
**Abstract:** Machine learning society has witnessed the emergence of a myriad of Out-of-Distribution (OoD) algorithms, which address the distribution shift between the training and the testing distribution by searching for a unified predictor or invariant feature representation. However, the task of directly mitigating the distribution shift in the unseen testing set is rarely investigated, due to the unavailability of the testing distribution during the training phase and thus the impossibility of training a distribution translator mapping between the training and testing distribution. In this paper, we explore how to bypass the requirement of testing distribution for distribution translator training and make the distribution translation useful for OoD prediction. We propose a portable Distribution Shift Inversion algorithm, in which, before being fed into the prediction model, the OoD testing samples are first linearly combined with additional Gaussian noise and then transferred back towards the training distribution using a diffusion model trained only on the source distribution. Theoretical analysis reveals the feasibility of our method. Experimental results, on both multiple-domain generalization datasets and single-domain generalization datasets, show that our method provides a general performance gain when plugged into a wide range of commonly used OoD algorithms. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Multimodal Optimal Transport-based Co-Attention Transformer with Global  Structure Consistency for Survival Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08330  
**Abstract:** Survival prediction is a complicated ordinal regression task that aims to predict the ranking risk of death, which generally benefits from the integration of histology and genomic data. Despite the progress in joint learning from pathology and genomics, existing methods still suffer from challenging issues: 1) Due to the large size of pathological images, it is difficult to effectively represent the gigapixel whole slide images (WSIs). 2) Interactions within tumor microenvironment (TME) in histology are essential for survival analysis. Although current approaches attempt to model these interactions via co-attention between histology and genomic data, they focus on only dense local similarity across modalities, which fails to capture global consistency between potential structures, i.e. TME-related interactions of histology and co-expression of genomic data. To address these challenges, we propose a Multimodal Optimal Transport-based Co-Attention Transformer framework with global structure consistency, in which optimal transport (OT) is applied to match patches of a WSI and genes embeddings for selecting informative patches to represent the gigapixel WSI. More importantly, OT-based co-attention provides a global awareness to effectively capture structural interactions within TME for survival prediction. To overcome high computational complexity of OT, we propose a robust and efficient implementation over micro-batch of WSI patches by approximating the original OT with unbalanced mini-batch OT. Extensive experiments show the superiority of our method on five benchmark datasets compared to the state-of-the-art methods. The code is released. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** A semantically enhanced dual encoder for aspect sentiment triplet  extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08373  
**Abstract:** Aspect sentiment triplet extraction (ASTE) is a crucial subtask of aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) that aims to comprehensively identify sentiment triplets. Previous research has focused on enhancing ASTE through innovative table-filling strategies. However, these approaches often overlook the multi-perspective nature of language expressions, resulting in a loss of valuable interaction information between aspects and opinions. To address this limitation, we propose a framework that leverages both a basic encoder, primarily based on BERT, and a particular encoder comprising a Bi-LSTM network and graph convolutional network (GCN ). The basic encoder captures the surface-level semantics of linguistic expressions, while the particular encoder extracts deeper semantics, including syntactic and lexical information. By modeling the dependency tree of comments and considering the part-of-speech and positional information of words, we aim to capture semantics that are more relevant to the underlying intentions of the sentences. An interaction strategy combines the semantics learned by the two encoders, enabling the fusion of multiple perspectives and facilitating a more comprehensive understanding of aspect--opinion relationships. Experiments conducted on benchmark datasets demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our proposed framework. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** NodeFormer: A Scalable Graph Structure Learning Transformer for Node  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08385  
**Abstract:** Graph neural networks have been extensively studied for learning with inter-connected data. Despite this, recent evidence has revealed GNNs' deficiencies related to over-squashing, heterophily, handling long-range dependencies, edge incompleteness and particularly, the absence of graphs altogether. While a plausible solution is to learn new adaptive topology for message passing, issues concerning quadratic complexity hinder simultaneous guarantees for scalability and precision in large networks. In this paper, we introduce a novel all-pair message passing scheme for efficiently propagating node signals between arbitrary nodes, as an important building block for a pioneering Transformer-style network for node classification on large graphs, dubbed as \textsc{NodeFormer}. Specifically, the efficient computation is enabled by a kernerlized Gumbel-Softmax operator that reduces the algorithmic complexity to linearity w.r.t. node numbers for learning latent graph structures from large, potentially fully-connected graphs in a differentiable manner. We also provide accompanying theory as justification for our design. Extensive experiments demonstrate the promising efficacy of the method in various tasks including node classification on graphs (with up to 2M nodes) and graph-enhanced applications (e.g., image classification) where input graphs are missing. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Building a Corpus for Biomedical Relation Extraction of Species Mentions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08403  
**Abstract:** We present a manually annotated corpus, Species-Species Interaction, for extracting meaningful binary relations between species, in biomedical texts, at sentence level, with a focus on the gut microbiota. The corpus leverages PubTator to annotate species in full-text articles after evaluating different Named Entity Recognition species taggers. Our first results are promising for extracting relations between species using BERT and its biomedical variants. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Gesper: A Restoration-Enhancement Framework for General Speech  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08454  
**Abstract:** This paper describes a real-time General Speech Reconstruction (Gesper) system submitted to the ICASSP 2023 Speech Signal Improvement (SSI) Challenge. This novel proposed system is a two-stage architecture, in which the speech restoration is performed, and then cascaded by speech enhancement. We propose a complex spectral mapping-based generative adversarial network (CSM-GAN) as the speech restoration module for the first time. For noise suppression and dereverberation, the enhancement module is performed with fullband-wideband parallel processing. On the blind test set of ICASSP 2023 SSI Challenge, the proposed Gesper system, which satisfies the real-time condition, achieves 3.27 P.804 overall mean opinion score (MOS) and 3.35 P.835 overall MOS, ranked 1st in both track 1 and track 2. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** PoetryDiffusion: Towards Joint Semantic and Metrical Manipulation in  Poetry Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08456  
**Abstract:** Poetry generation is a typical and popular task in natural language generation. While prior works have shown success in controlling either semantic or metrical aspects of poetry generation, there are still challenges in addressing both perspectives simultaneously. In this paper, we employ the Diffusion model to generate poetry in Sonnet and SongCi in Chinese for the first time to tackle such challenges. Different from autoregressive generation, our PoetryDiffusion model, based on Diffusion model, generates the complete sentence or poetry by taking into account the whole sentence information, resulting in improved semantic expression. Additionally, we incorporate a novel metrical controller to manipulate and evaluate metrics (format and rhythm). The denoising process in PoetryDiffusion allows for gradual enhancement of semantics and flexible integration of the metrical controller. Experimental results on two datasets demonstrate that our model outperforms existing models in terms of semantic, metrical and overall performance. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Single-board Device Individual Authentication based on Hardware  Performance and Anomaly Detection for Crowdsensing Platforms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08495  
**Abstract:** The proliferation of the Internet of Things (IoT) has led to the emergence of crowdsensing applications, where a multitude of interconnected devices collaboratively collect and analyze data. Ensuring the authenticity and integrity of the data collected by these devices is crucial for reliable decision-making and maintaining trust in the system. Traditional authentication methods are often vulnerable to attacks or can be easily duplicated, posing challenges to securing crowdsensing applications. Besides, current solutions leveraging device behavior are mostly focused on device identification, which is a simpler task than authentication. To address these issues, an individual IoT device authentication framework based on hardware behavior fingerprinting and Transformer autoencoders is proposed in this work. This solution leverages the inherent imperfections and variations in IoT device hardware to differentiate between devices with identical specifications. By monitoring and analyzing the behavior of key hardware components, such as the CPU, GPU, RAM, and Storage on devices, unique fingerprints for each device are created. The performance samples are considered as time series data and used to train anomaly detection transformer models, one per device. Then, the framework is validated within a spectrum crowdsensing system leveraging Raspberry Pi devices. After a pool of experiments, the model from each device is able to individually authenticate it between the 45 devices employed for validation. An average True Positive Rate (TPR) of 0.74+-0.13 and an average maximum False Positive Rate (FPR) of 0.06+-0.09 demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach in enhancing authentication, security, and trust in crowdsensing applications. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** RISCLIP: Referring Image Segmentation Framework using CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08498  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in computer vision and natural language processing have naturally led to active research in multi-modal tasks, including Referring Image Segmentation (RIS). Recent approaches have advanced the frontier of RIS by impressive margins, but they require an additional pretraining stage on external visual grounding datasets to achieve the state-of-the-art performances. We attempt to break free from this requirement by effectively adapting Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining (CLIP) to RIS. We propose a novel framework that residually adapts frozen CLIP features to RIS with Fusion Adapters and Backbone Adapters. Freezing CLIP preserves the backbone's rich, general image-text alignment knowledge, whilst Fusion Adapters introduce multi-modal communication and Backbone Adapters inject new knowledge useful in solving RIS. Our method reaches a new state of the art on three major RIS benchmarks. We attain such performance without additional pretraining and thereby absolve the necessity of extra training and data preparation. Source code and model weights will be available upon publication. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** DiffuDetox: A Mixed Diffusion Model for Text Detoxification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08505  
**Abstract:** Text detoxification is a conditional text generation task aiming to remove offensive content from toxic text. It is highly useful for online forums and social media, where offensive content is frequently encountered. Intuitively, there are diverse ways to detoxify sentences while preserving their meanings, and we can select from detoxified sentences before displaying text to users. Conditional diffusion models are particularly suitable for this task given their demonstrated higher generative diversity than existing conditional text generation models based on language models. Nonetheless, text fluency declines when they are trained with insufficient data, which is the case for this task. In this work, we propose DiffuDetox, a mixed conditional and unconditional diffusion model for text detoxification. The conditional model takes toxic text as the condition and reduces its toxicity, yielding a diverse set of detoxified sentences. The unconditional model is trained to recover the input text, which allows the introduction of additional fluent text for training and thus ensures text fluency. Extensive experimental results and in-depth analysis demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed DiffuDetox. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Knowledge Distillation of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08543  
**Abstract:** Knowledge Distillation (KD) is a promising technique for reducing the high computational demand of large language models (LLMs). However, previous KD methods are primarily applied to white-box classification models or training small models to imitate black-box model APIs like ChatGPT. How to effectively distill the knowledge from white-box generative LLMs is still under-explored, which becomes more and more important with the prosperity of LLMs. In this work, we propose MiniLLM that distills smaller language models from generative larger language models. We first replace the forward Kullback-Leibler divergence (KLD) objective in the standard KD approaches with reverse KLD, which is more suitable for KD on generative language models, to prevent the student model from overestimating the low-probability regions of the teacher distribution. Then, we derive an effective optimization approach to learn this objective. Extensive experiments in the instruction-following setting show that the MiniLLM models generate more precise responses with the higher overall quality, lower exposure bias, better calibration, and higher long-text generation performance. Our method is also scalable for different model families with 120M to 13B parameters. We will release our code and model checkpoints at https://aka.ms/MiniLLM. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** GenImage: A Million-Scale Benchmark for Detecting AI-Generated Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08571  
**Abstract:** The extraordinary ability of generative models to generate photographic images has intensified concerns about the spread of disinformation, thereby leading to the demand for detectors capable of distinguishing between AI-generated fake images and real images. However, the lack of large datasets containing images from the most advanced image generators poses an obstacle to the development of such detectors. In this paper, we introduce the GenImage dataset, which has the following advantages: 1) Plenty of Images, including over one million pairs of AI-generated fake images and collected real images. 2) Rich Image Content, encompassing a broad range of image classes. 3) State-of-the-art Generators, synthesizing images with advanced diffusion models and GANs. The aforementioned advantages allow the detectors trained on GenImage to undergo a thorough evaluation and demonstrate strong applicability to diverse images. We conduct a comprehensive analysis of the dataset and propose two tasks for evaluating the detection method in resembling real-world scenarios. The cross-generator image classification task measures the performance of a detector trained on one generator when tested on the others. The degraded image classification task assesses the capability of the detectors in handling degraded images such as low-resolution, blurred, and compressed images. With the GenImage dataset, researchers can effectively expedite the development and evaluation of superior AI-generated image detectors in comparison to prevailing methodologies. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Towards AGI in Computer Vision: Lessons Learned from GPT and Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08641  
**Abstract:** The AI community has been pursuing algorithms known as artificial general intelligence (AGI) that apply to any kind of real-world problem. Recently, chat systems powered by large language models (LLMs) emerge and rapidly become a promising direction to achieve AGI in natural language processing (NLP), but the path towards AGI in computer vision (CV) remains unclear. One may owe the dilemma to the fact that visual signals are more complex than language signals, yet we are interested in finding concrete reasons, as well as absorbing experiences from GPT and LLMs to solve the problem. In this paper, we start with a conceptual definition of AGI and briefly review how NLP solves a wide range of tasks via a chat system. The analysis inspires us that unification is the next important goal of CV. But, despite various efforts in this direction, CV is still far from a system like GPT that naturally integrates all tasks. We point out that the essential weakness of CV lies in lacking a paradigm to learn from environments, yet NLP has accomplished the task in the text world. We then imagine a pipeline that puts a CV algorithm (i.e., an agent) in world-scale, interactable environments, pre-trains it to predict future frames with respect to its action, and then fine-tunes it with instruction to accomplish various tasks. We expect substantial research and engineering efforts to push the idea forward and scale it up, for which we share our perspectives on future research directions. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Training-free Diffusion Model Adaptation for Variable-Sized  Text-to-Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08645  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models (DMs) have recently gained attention with state-of-the-art performance in text-to-image synthesis. Abiding by the tradition in deep learning, DMs are trained and evaluated on the images with fixed sizes. However, users are demanding for various images with specific sizes and various aspect ratio. This paper focuses on adapting text-to-image diffusion models to handle such variety while maintaining visual fidelity. First we observe that, during the synthesis, lower resolution images suffer from incomplete object portrayal, while higher resolution images exhibit repetitive presentation. Next, we establish a statistical relationship indicating that attention entropy changes with token quantity, suggesting that models aggregate spatial information in proportion to image resolution. The subsequent interpretation on our observations is that objects are incompletely depicted due to limited spatial information for low resolutions, while repetitive presentation arises from redundant spatial information for high resolutions. From this perspective, we propose a scaling factor to alleviate the change of attention entropy and mitigate the defective pattern observed. Extensive experimental results validate the efficacy of the proposed scaling factor, which enables the model to achieve better visual effects, image quality, and text alignment. Notably, these improvements are achieved without additional training or fine-tuning techniques. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Babel-ImageNet: Massively Multilingual Evaluation of Vision-and-Language  Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08658  
**Abstract:** Vision-and-language (VL) models with separate encoders for each modality (e.g., CLIP) have become the go-to models for zero-shot image classification and image-text retrieval. The bulk of the evaluation of these models is, however, performed with English text only: the costly creation of language-specific image-caption datasets has limited multilingual VL benchmarks to a handful of high-resource languages. In this work, we introduce Babel-ImageNet, a massively multilingual benchmark that offers (partial) translations of 1000 ImageNet labels to 92 languages, built without resorting to machine translation (MT) or requiring manual annotation. We instead automatically obtain reliable translations of ImageNext concepts by linking them -- via shared WordNet synsets -- to BabelNet, a massively multilingual lexico-semantic network. We evaluate 8 different publicly available multilingual CLIP models on zero-shot image classification (ZS-IC) for each of the 92 Babel-ImageNet languages, demonstrating a significant gap between English ImageNet performance and that of high-resource languages (e.g., German or Chinese), and an even bigger gap for low-resource languages (e.g., Sinhala or Lao). Crucially, we show that the models' ZS-IC performance on Babel-ImageNet highly correlates with their performance in image-text retrieval, validating that Babel-ImageNet is suitable for estimating the quality of the multilingual VL representation spaces for the vast majority of languages that lack gold image-text data. Finally, we show that the performance of multilingual CLIP for low-resource languages can be drastically improved via cheap, parameter-efficient language-specific training. We make our code and data publicly available: \url{https://github.com/gregor-ge/Babel-ImageNet} 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Radiology-GPT: A Large Language Model for Radiology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08666  
**Abstract:** We introduce Radiology-GPT, a large language model for radiology. Using an instruction tuning approach on an extensive dataset of radiology domain knowledge, Radiology-GPT demonstrates superior performance compared to general language models such as StableLM, Dolly and LLaMA. It exhibits significant versatility in radiological diagnosis, research, and communication. This work serves as a catalyst for future developments in clinical NLP. The successful implementation of Radiology-GPT is indicative of the potential of localizing generative large language models, specifically tailored for distinctive medical specialties, while ensuring adherence to privacy standards such as HIPAA. The prospect of developing individualized, large-scale language models that cater to specific needs of various hospitals presents a promising direction. The fusion of conversational competence and domain-specific knowledge in these models is set to foster future development in healthcare AI. A demo of Radiology-GPT is available at https://huggingface.co/spaces/allen-eric/radiology-gpt. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** When to Use Efficient Self Attention? Profiling Text, Speech and Image  Transformer Variants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08667  
**Abstract:** We present the first unified study of the efficiency of self-attention-based Transformer variants spanning text, speech and vision. We identify input length thresholds (tipping points) at which efficient Transformer variants become more efficient than vanilla models, using a variety of efficiency metrics (latency, throughput, and memory). To conduct this analysis for speech, we introduce L-HuBERT, a novel local-attention variant of a self-supervised speech model. We observe that these thresholds are (a) much higher than typical dataset sequence lengths and (b) dependent on the metric and modality, showing that choosing the right model depends on modality, task type (long-form vs. typical context) and resource constraints (time vs. memory). By visualising the breakdown of the computational costs for transformer components, we also show that non-self-attention components exhibit significant computational costs. We release our profiling toolkit at https://github.com/ajd12342/profiling-transformers . 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** World-to-Words: Grounded Open Vocabulary Acquisition through Fast  Mapping in Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08685  
**Abstract:** The ability to connect language units to their referents in the physical world, referred to as grounding, is crucial to learning and understanding grounded meanings of words. While humans demonstrate fast mapping in new word learning, it remains unclear whether modern vision-language models can truly represent language with their grounded meanings and how grounding may further bootstrap new word learning. To this end, we introduce Grounded Open Vocabulary Acquisition (GOVA) to examine grounding and bootstrapping in open-world language learning. As an initial attempt, we propose object-oriented BERT (OctoBERT), a novel visually-grounded language model by pre-training on image-text pairs highlighting grounding as an objective. Through extensive experiments and analysis, we demonstrate that OctoBERT is a more coherent and fast grounded word learner, and that the grounding ability acquired during pre-training helps the model to learn unseen words more rapidly and robustly. Our code is available at https://github.com/sled-group/world-to-words 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Norm-guided latent space exploration for text-to-image generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08687  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models show great potential in synthesizing a large variety of concepts in new compositions and scenarios. However, their latent seed space is still not well understood and has been shown to have an impact in generating new and rare concepts. Specifically, simple operations like interpolation and centroid finding work poorly with the standard Euclidean and spherical metrics in the latent space. This paper makes the observation that current training procedures make diffusion models biased toward inputs with a narrow range of norm values. This has strong implications for methods that rely on seed manipulation for image generation that can be further applied to few-shot and long-tail learning tasks. To address this issue, we propose a novel method for interpolating between two seeds and demonstrate that it defines a new non-Euclidean metric that takes into account a norm-based prior on seeds. We describe a simple yet efficient algorithm for approximating this metric and use it to further define centroids in the latent seed space. We show that our new interpolation and centroid evaluation techniques significantly enhance the generation of rare concept images. This further leads to state-of-the-art performance on few-shot and long-tail benchmarks, improving prior approach in terms of generation speed, image quality, and semantic content. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** VidEdit: Zero-Shot and Spatially Aware Text-Driven Video Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08707  
**Abstract:** Recently, diffusion-based generative models have achieved remarkable success for image generation and edition. However, their use for video editing still faces important limitations. This paper introduces VidEdit, a novel method for zero-shot text-based video editing ensuring strong temporal and spatial consistency. Firstly, we propose to combine atlas-based and pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models to provide a training-free and efficient editing method, which by design fulfills temporal smoothness. Secondly, we leverage off-the-shelf panoptic segmenters along with edge detectors and adapt their use for conditioned diffusion-based atlas editing. This ensures a fine spatial control on targeted regions while strictly preserving the structure of the original video. Quantitative and qualitative experiments show that VidEdit outperforms state-of-the-art methods on DAVIS dataset, regarding semantic faithfulness, image preservation, and temporal consistency metrics. With this framework, processing a single video only takes approximately one minute, and it can generate multiple compatible edits based on a unique text prompt. Project web-page at https://videdit.github.io 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** LoSh: Long-Short Text Joint Prediction Network for Referring Video  Object Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08736  
**Abstract:** Referring video object segmentation (RVOS) aims to segment the target instance referred by a given text expression in a video clip. The text expression normally contains sophisticated descriptions of the instance's appearance, actions, and relations with others. It is therefore rather difficult for an RVOS model to capture all these attributes correspondingly in the video; in fact, the model often favours more on the action- and relation-related visual attribute of the instance. This can end up with incomplete or even incorrect mask prediction of the target instance. In this paper, we tackle this problem by taking a subject-centric short text expression from the original long text expression. The short one retains only the appearance-related information of the target instance so that we can use it to focus the model's attention on the instance's appearance. We let the model make joint predictions using both long and short text expressions and introduce a long-short predictions intersection loss to align the joint predictions. Besides the improvement on the linguistic part, we also introduce a forward-backward visual consistency loss, which utilizes optical flows to warp visual features between the annotated frames and their temporal neighbors for consistency. We build our method on top of two state of the art transformer-based pipelines for end-to-end training. Extensive experiments on A2D-Sentences and JHMDB-Sentences datasets show impressive improvements of our method. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Utilizing Longitudinal Chest X-Rays and Reports to Pre-Fill Radiology  Reports  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08749  
**Abstract:** Despite the reduction in turn-around times in radiology reports with the use of speech recognition software, persistent communication errors can significantly impact the interpretation of the radiology report. Pre-filling a radiology report holds promise in mitigating reporting errors, and despite efforts in the literature to generate medical reports, there exists a lack of approaches that exploit the longitudinal nature of patient visit records in the MIMIC-CXR dataset. To address this gap, we propose to use longitudinal multi-modal data, i.e., previous patient visit CXR, current visit CXR, and previous visit report, to pre-fill the 'findings' section of a current patient visit report. We first gathered the longitudinal visit information for 26,625 patients from the MIMIC-CXR dataset and created a new dataset called Longitudinal-MIMIC. With this new dataset, a transformer-based model was trained to capture the information from longitudinal patient visit records containing multi-modal data (CXR images + reports) via a cross-attention-based multi-modal fusion module and a hierarchical memory-driven decoder. In contrast to previous work that only uses current visit data as input to train a model, our work exploits the longitudinal information available to pre-fill the 'findings' section of radiology reports. Experiments show that our approach outperforms several recent approaches by >=3% on F1 score, and >=2% for BLEU-4, METEOR and ROUGE-L respectively. The dataset and code will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** InfoDiffusion: Representation Learning Using Information Maximizing  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08757  
**Abstract:** While diffusion models excel at generating high-quality samples, their latent variables typically lack semantic meaning and are not suitable for representation learning. Here, we propose InfoDiffusion, an algorithm that augments diffusion models with low-dimensional latent variables that capture high-level factors of variation in the data. InfoDiffusion relies on a learning objective regularized with the mutual information between observed and hidden variables, which improves latent space quality and prevents the latents from being ignored by expressive diffusion-based decoders. Empirically, we find that InfoDiffusion learns disentangled and human-interpretable latent representations that are competitive with state-of-the-art generative and contrastive methods, while retaining the high sample quality of diffusion models. Our method enables manipulating the attributes of generated images and has the potential to assist tasks that require exploring a learned latent space to generate quality samples, e.g., generative design. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Efficient Token-Guided Image-Text Retrieval with Consistent Multimodal  Contrastive Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08789  
**Abstract:** Image-text retrieval is a central problem for understanding the semantic relationship between vision and language, and serves as the basis for various visual and language tasks. Most previous works either simply learn coarse-grained representations of the overall image and text, or elaborately establish the correspondence between image regions or pixels and text words. However, the close relations between coarse- and fine-grained representations for each modality are important for image-text retrieval but almost neglected. As a result, such previous works inevitably suffer from low retrieval accuracy or heavy computational cost. In this work, we address image-text retrieval from a novel perspective by combining coarse- and fine-grained representation learning into a unified framework. This framework is consistent with human cognition, as humans simultaneously pay attention to the entire sample and regional elements to understand the semantic content. To this end, a Token-Guided Dual Transformer (TGDT) architecture which consists of two homogeneous branches for image and text modalities, respectively, is proposed for image-text retrieval. The TGDT incorporates both coarse- and fine-grained retrievals into a unified framework and beneficially leverages the advantages of both retrieval approaches. A novel training objective called Consistent Multimodal Contrastive (CMC) loss is proposed accordingly to ensure the intra- and inter-modal semantic consistencies between images and texts in the common embedding space. Equipped with a two-stage inference method based on the mixed global and local cross-modal similarity, the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art retrieval performances with extremely low inference time when compared with representative recent approaches. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Pragmatic Inference with a CLIP Listener for Contrastive Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08818  
**Abstract:** We propose a simple yet effective and robust method for contrastive captioning: generating discriminative captions that distinguish target images from very similar alternative distractor images. Our approach is built on a pragmatic inference procedure that formulates captioning as a reference game between a speaker, which produces possible captions describing the target, and a listener, which selects the target given the caption. Unlike previous methods that derive both speaker and listener distributions from a single captioning model, we leverage an off-the-shelf CLIP model to parameterize the listener. Compared with captioner-only pragmatic models, our method benefits from rich vision language alignment representations from CLIP when reasoning over distractors. Like previous methods for discriminative captioning, our method uses a hyperparameter to control the tradeoff between the informativity (how likely captions are to allow a human listener to discriminate the target image) and the fluency of the captions. However, we find that our method is substantially more robust to the value of this hyperparameter than past methods, which allows us to automatically optimize the captions for informativity - outperforming past methods for discriminative captioning by 11% to 15% accuracy in human evaluations 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Contrasting Intra-Modal and Ranking Cross-Modal Hard Negatives to  Enhance Visio-Linguistic Fine-grained Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08832  
**Abstract:** Current Vision and Language Models (VLMs) demonstrate strong performance across various vision-language tasks, yet they struggle with fine-grained understanding. This issue stems from weak image-caption alignment in pretraining datasets and a simplified contrastive objective that fails to distinguish nuanced grounding elements such as relations, actions, and attributes. As a result, the models tend to learn bag-of-words representations. To mitigate these challenges, we introduce an intra-modal contrastive loss and a unique cross-modal rank loss with an adaptive threshold that serves as curriculum learning, utilizing our automatically generated hard negatives to augment the model's capacity. Our strategy, which does not necessitate additional annotations or parameters, can be incorporated into any VLM trained with an image-text contrastive loss. Upon application to CLIP, our method leads to significant improvements on three fine-grained benchmarks, and it also enhances the performance of X-VLM, which is the state-of-art moodel on fine-grained reasoning. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Safeguarding Crowdsourcing Surveys from ChatGPT with Prompt Injection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08833  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT and other large language models (LLMs) have proven useful in crowdsourcing tasks, where they can effectively annotate machine learning training data. However, this means that they also have the potential for misuse, specifically to automatically answer surveys. LLMs can potentially circumvent quality assurance measures, thereby threatening the integrity of methodologies that rely on crowdsourcing surveys. In this paper, we propose a mechanism to detect LLM-generated responses to surveys. The mechanism uses "prompt injection", such as directions that can mislead LLMs into giving predictable responses. We evaluate our technique against a range of question scenarios, types, and positions, and find that it can reliably detect LLM-generated responses with more than 93% effectiveness. We also provide an open-source software to help survey designers use our technique to detect LLM responses. Our work is a step in ensuring that survey methodologies remain rigorous vis-a-vis LLMs. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** ViP: A Differentially Private Foundation Model for Computer Vision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08842  
**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence (AI) has seen a tremendous surge in capabilities thanks to the use of foundation models trained on internet-scale data. On the flip side, the uncurated nature of internet-scale data also poses significant privacy and legal risks, as they often contain personal information or copyrighted material that should not be trained on without permission. In this work, we propose as a mitigation measure a recipe to train foundation vision models with differential privacy (DP) guarantee. We identify masked autoencoders as a suitable learning algorithm that aligns well with DP-SGD, and train ViP -- a Vision transformer with differential Privacy -- under a strict privacy budget of $\epsilon=8$ on the LAION400M dataset. We evaluate the quality of representation learned by ViP using standard downstream vision tasks; in particular, ViP achieves a (non-private) linear probing accuracy of $55.7\%$ on ImageNet, comparable to that of end-to-end trained AlexNet (trained and evaluated on ImageNet). Our result suggests that scaling to internet-scale data can be practical for private learning. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** BED: Bi-Encoder-Based Detectors for Out-of-Distribution Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08852  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a novel method leveraging bi-encoder-based detectors along with a comprehensive study comparing different out-of-distribution (OOD) detection methods in NLP using different feature extractors. The feature extraction stage employs popular methods such as Universal Sentence Encoder (USE), BERT, MPNET, and GLOVE to extract informative representations from textual data. The evaluation is conducted on several datasets, including CLINC150, ROSTD-Coarse, SNIPS, and YELLOW. Performance is assessed using metrics such as F1-Score, MCC, FPR@90, FPR@95, AUPR, an AUROC. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed bi-encoder-based detectors outperform other methods, both those that require OOD labels in training and those that do not, across all datasets, showing great potential for OOD detection in NLP. The simplicity of the training process and the superior detection performance make them applicable to real-world scenarios. The presented methods and benchmarking metrics serve as a valuable resource for future research in OOD detection, enabling further advancements in this field. The code and implementation details can be found on our GitHub repository: https://github.com/yellowmessenger/ood-detection. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** OMS-DPM: Optimizing the Model Schedule for Diffusion Probabilistic  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08860  
**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) are a new class of generative models that have achieved state-of-the-art generation quality in various domains. Despite the promise, one major drawback of DPMs is the slow generation speed due to the large number of neural network evaluations required in the generation process. In this paper, we reveal an overlooked dimension -- model schedule -- for optimizing the trade-off between generation quality and speed. More specifically, we observe that small models, though having worse generation quality when used alone, could outperform large models in certain generation steps. Therefore, unlike the traditional way of using a single model, using different models in different generation steps in a carefully designed \emph{model schedule} could potentially improve generation quality and speed \emph{simultaneously}. We design OMS-DPM, a predictor-based search algorithm, to optimize the model schedule given an arbitrary generation time budget and a set of pre-trained models. We demonstrate that OMS-DPM can find model schedules that improve generation quality and speed than prior state-of-the-art methods across CIFAR-10, CelebA, ImageNet, and LSUN datasets. When applied to the public checkpoints of the Stable Diffusion model, we are able to accelerate the sampling by 2$\times$ while maintaining the generation quality. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Med-MMHL: A Multi-Modal Dataset for Detecting Human- and LLM-Generated  Misinformation in the Medical Domain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08871  
**Abstract:** The pervasive influence of misinformation has far-reaching and detrimental effects on both individuals and society. The COVID-19 pandemic has witnessed an alarming surge in the dissemination of medical misinformation. However, existing datasets pertaining to misinformation predominantly focus on textual information, neglecting the inclusion of visual elements, and tend to center solely on COVID-19-related misinformation, overlooking misinformation surrounding other diseases. Furthermore, the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as the ChatGPT developed in late 2022, in generating misinformation has been overlooked in previous works. To overcome these limitations, we present Med-MMHL, a novel multi-modal misinformation detection dataset in a general medical domain encompassing multiple diseases. Med-MMHL not only incorporates human-generated misinformation but also includes misinformation generated by LLMs like ChatGPT. Our dataset aims to facilitate comprehensive research and development of methodologies for detecting misinformation across diverse diseases and various scenarios, including human and LLM-generated misinformation detection at the sentence, document, and multi-modal levels. To access our dataset and code, visit our GitHub repository: \url{https://github.com/styxsys0927/Med-MMHL}. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Neural models for Factual Inconsistency Classification with Explanations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08872  
**Abstract:** Factual consistency is one of the most important requirements when editing high quality documents. It is extremely important for automatic text generation systems like summarization, question answering, dialog modeling, and language modeling. Still, automated factual inconsistency detection is rather under-studied. Existing work has focused on (a) finding fake news keeping a knowledge base in context, or (b) detecting broad contradiction (as part of natural language inference literature). However, there has been no work on detecting and explaining types of factual inconsistencies in text, without any knowledge base in context. In this paper, we leverage existing work in linguistics to formally define five types of factual inconsistencies. Based on this categorization, we contribute a novel dataset, FICLE (Factual Inconsistency CLassification with Explanation), with ~8K samples where each sample consists of two sentences (claim and context) annotated with type and span of inconsistency. When the inconsistency relates to an entity type, it is labeled as well at two levels (coarse and fine-grained). Further, we leverage this dataset to train a pipeline of four neural models to predict inconsistency type with explanations, given a (claim, context) sentence pair. Explanations include inconsistent claim fact triple, inconsistent context span, inconsistent claim component, coarse and fine-grained inconsistent entity types. The proposed system first predicts inconsistent spans from claim and context; and then uses them to predict inconsistency types and inconsistent entity types (when inconsistency is due to entities). We experiment with multiple Transformer-based natural language classification as well as generative models, and find that DeBERTa performs the best. Our proposed methods provide a weighted F1 of ~87% for inconsistency type classification across the five classes. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Linguistic Binding in Diffusion Models: Enhancing Attribute  Correspondence through Attention Map Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08877  
**Abstract:** Text-conditioned image generation models often generate incorrect associations between entities and their visual attributes. This reflects an impaired mapping between linguistic binding of entities and modifiers in the prompt and visual binding of the corresponding elements in the generated image. As one notable example, a query like ``a pink sunflower and a yellow flamingo'' may incorrectly produce an image of a yellow sunflower and a pink flamingo. To remedy this issue, we propose SynGen, an approach which first syntactically analyses the prompt to identify entities and their modifiers, and then uses a novel loss function that encourages the cross-attention maps to agree with the linguistic binding reflected by the syntax. Specifically, we encourage large overlap between attention maps of entities and their modifiers, and small overlap with other entities and modifier words. The loss is optimized during inference, without retraining or fine-tuning the model. Human evaluation on three datasets, including one new and challenging set, demonstrate significant improvements of SynGen compared with current state of the art methods. This work highlights how making use of sentence structure during inference can efficiently and substantially improve the faithfulness of text-to-image generation. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Motion Perceiver: Real-Time Occupancy Forecasting for Embedded Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08879  
**Abstract:** This work introduces a flexible architecture for real-time occupancy forecasting. In contrast to existing, more computationally expensive architectures, the proposed model exploits recursive latent state estimation, using learned transformer-based prediction and update modules. This allows for highly efficient real-time inference on an embedded system (profiled on an Nvidia Xavier AGX), and the inclusion of a broad set of information from a diverse set of sensors. The architecture is able to process sparse and occluded observations of agent positions and scene context as this is made available, and does not require motion tracklet inputs. \networkName{} accomplishes this by encoding the scene into a latent state that evolves in time with self-attention and is updated with contextual information such as traffic signals, road topology or agent detections using cross-attention. Occupancy predictions are made by sparsely querying positions of interest as opposed to generating a fixed size raster image, which allows for variable resolution occupancy prediction or local querying by downstream trajectory optimisation algorithms, saving computational effort. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Revealing the Illusion of Joint Multimodal Understanding in VideoQA  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08889  
**Abstract:** While VideoQA Transformer models demonstrate competitive performance on standard benchmarks, the reasons behind their success remain unclear. Do these models jointly capture and leverage the rich multimodal structures and dynamics from video and text? Or are they merely exploiting shortcuts to achieve high scores? We analyze this with $\textit{QUAG}$ (QUadrant AveraGe), a lightweight and non-parametric probe that systematically ablates the model's coupled multimodal understanding during inference. Surprisingly, QUAG reveals that the models manage to maintain high performance even when injected with multimodal sub-optimality. Additionally, even after replacing self-attention in multimodal fusion blocks with "QUAG-attention", a simplistic and less-expressive variant of self-attention, the models maintain high performance. This means that current VideoQA benchmarks and their metrics do not penalize shortcuts that discount joint multimodal understanding. Motivated by this, we propose the $\textit{CLAVI}$ (Counterfactual in LAnguage and VIdeo) benchmark, a diagnostic dataset for benchmarking coupled multimodal understanding in VideoQA through counterfactuals. CLAVI consists of temporal questions and videos that are augmented to curate balanced counterfactuals in language and video domains. Hence, it incentivizes, and identifies the reliability of learnt multimodal representations. We evaluate CLAVI and find that models achieve high performance on multimodal shortcut instances, but have very poor performance on the counterfactuals. Hence, we position CLAVI as a litmus test to identify, diagnose and improve the sub-optimality of learnt multimodal VideoQA representations which the current benchmarks are unable to assess. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Interleaving Pre-Trained Language Models and Large Language Models for  Zero-Shot NL2SQL Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08891  
**Abstract:** Zero-shot NL2SQL is crucial in achieving natural language to SQL that is adaptive to new environments (e.g., new databases, new linguistic phenomena or SQL structures) with zero annotated NL2SQL samples from such environments. Existing approaches either fine-tune pre-trained language models (PLMs) based on annotated data or use prompts to guide fixed large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT. PLMs can perform well in schema alignment but struggle to achieve complex reasoning, while LLMs is superior in complex reasoning tasks but cannot achieve precise schema alignment. In this paper, we propose a ZeroNL2SQL framework that combines the complementary advantages of PLMs and LLMs for supporting zero-shot NL2SQL. ZeroNL2SQL first uses PLMs to generate an SQL sketch via schema alignment, then uses LLMs to fill the missing information via complex reasoning. Moreover, in order to better align the generated SQL queries with values in the given database instances, we design a predicate calibration method to guide the LLM in completing the SQL sketches based on the database instances and select the optimal SQL query via an execution-based strategy. Comprehensive experiments show that ZeroNL2SQL can achieve the best zero-shot NL2SQL performance on real-world benchmarks. Specifically, ZeroNL2SQL outperforms the state-of-the-art PLM-based methods by 3.2% to 13% and exceeds LLM-based methods by 10% to 20% on execution accuracy. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Advancing Volumetric Medical Image Segmentation via Global-Local Masked  Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08913  
**Abstract:** Masked autoencoder (MAE) has emerged as a promising self-supervised pretraining technique to enhance the representation learning of a neural network without human intervention. To adapt MAE onto volumetric medical images, existing methods exhibit two challenges: first, the global information crucial for understanding the clinical context of the holistic data is lacked; second, there was no guarantee of stabilizing the representations learned from the randomly masked inputs. To tackle these limitations, we proposed Global-Local Masked AutoEncoder (GL-MAE), a simple yet effective self-supervised pre-training strategy. GL-MAE reconstructs both the masked global and masked local volumes, which enables learning the essential local details as well as the global context. We further introduced global-to-global consistency and local-to-global correspondence via global-guided consistency learning to enhance and stabilize the representation learning of the masked volumes. Finetuning results on multiple datasets illustrate the superiority of our method over other state-of-the-art self-supervised algorithms, demonstrating its effectiveness on versatile volumetric medical image segmentation tasks, even when annotations are scarce. Codes and models will be released upon acceptance. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** On approximation of solutions of stochastic delay differential equations  via randomized Euler scheme  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08926  
**Abstract:** We investigate existence, uniqueness and approximation of solutions to stochastic delay differential equations (SDDEs) under Carath\'eodory-type drift coefficients. Moreover, we also assume that both drift $f=f(t,x,z)$ and diffusion $g=g(t,x,z)$ coefficient are Lipschitz continuous with respect to the space variable $x$, but only H\"older continuous with respect to the delay variable $z$. We provide a construction of randomized Euler scheme for approximation of solutions of Carath\'eodory SDDEs, and investigate its upper error bound. Finally, we report results of numerical experiments that confirm our theoretical findings. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** RecFusion: A Binomial Diffusion Process for 1D Data for Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08947  
**Abstract:** In this paper we propose RecFusion, which comprise a set of diffusion models for recommendation. Unlike image data which contain spatial correlations, a user-item interaction matrix, commonly utilized in recommendation, lacks spatial relationships between users and items. We formulate diffusion on a 1D vector and propose binomial diffusion, which explicitly models binary user-item interactions with a Bernoulli process. We show that RecFusion approaches the performance of complex VAE baselines on the core recommendation setting (top-n recommendation for binary non-sequential feedback) and the most common datasets (MovieLens and Netflix). Our proposed diffusion models that are specialized for 1D and/or binary setups have implications beyond recommendation systems, such as in the medical domain with MRI and CT scans. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** When Hyperspectral Image Classification Meets Diffusion Models: An  Unsupervised Feature Learning Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08964  
**Abstract:** Learning effective spectral-spatial features is important for the hyperspectral image (HSI) classification task, but the majority of existing HSI classification methods still suffer from modeling complex spectral-spatial relations and characterizing low-level details and high-level semantics comprehensively. As a new class of record-breaking generative models, diffusion models are capable of modeling complex relations for understanding inputs well as learning both high-level and low-level visual features. Meanwhile, diffusion models can capture more abundant features by taking advantage of the extra and unique dimension of timestep t. In view of these, we propose an unsupervised spectral-spatial feature learning framework based on the diffusion model for HSI classification for the first time, named Diff-HSI. Specifically, we first pretrain the diffusion model with unlabeled HSI patches for unsupervised feature learning, and then exploit intermediate hierarchical features from different timesteps for classification. For better using the abundant timestep-wise features, we design a timestep-wise feature bank and a dynamic feature fusion module to construct timestep-wise features, adaptively learning informative multi-timestep representations. Finally, an ensemble of linear classifiers is applied to perform HSI classification. Extensive experiments are conducted on three public HSI datasets, and our results demonstrate that Diff-HSI outperforms state-of-the-art supervised and unsupervised methods for HSI classification. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Training Multimedia Event Extraction With Generated Images and Captions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08966  
**Abstract:** Contemporary news reporting increasingly features multimedia content, motivating research on multimedia event extraction. However, the task lacks annotated multimodal training data and artificially generated training data suffer from the distribution shift from the real-world data. In this paper, we propose Cross-modality Augmented Multimedia Event Learning (CAMEL), which successfully utilizes artificially generated multimodal training data and achieves state-of-the-art performance. Conditioned on unimodal training data, we generate multimodal training data using off-the-shelf image generators like Stable Diffusion and image captioners like BLIP. In order to learn robust features that are effective across domains, we devise an iterative and gradual annealing training strategy. Substantial experiments show that CAMEL surpasses state-of-the-art (SOTA) baselines on the M2E2 benchmark. On multimedia events in particular, we outperform the prior SOTA by 4.2\% F1 on event mention identification and by 9.8\% F1 on argument identification, which demonstrates that CAMEL learns synergistic representations from the two modalities. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** The Upper Bound of Information Diffusion in Code Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08980  
**Abstract:** Background: Code review, the discussion around a code change among humans, forms a communication network that enables its participants to exchange and spread information. Although reported by qualitative studies, our understanding of the capability of code review as a communication network is still limited. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Emotional Speech-Driven Animation with Content-Emotion Disentanglement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08990  
**Abstract:** To be widely adopted, 3D facial avatars need to be animated easily, realistically, and directly, from speech signals. While the best recent methods generate 3D animations that are synchronized with the input audio, they largely ignore the impact of emotions on facial expressions. Instead, their focus is on modeling the correlations between speech and facial motion, resulting in animations that are unemotional or do not match the input emotion. We observe that there are two contributing factors resulting in facial animation - the speech and the emotion. We exploit these insights in EMOTE (Expressive Model Optimized for Talking with Emotion), which generates 3D talking head avatars that maintain lip sync while enabling explicit control over the expression of emotion. Due to the absence of high-quality aligned emotional 3D face datasets with speech, EMOTE is trained from an emotional video dataset (i.e., MEAD). To achieve this, we match speech-content between generated sequences and target videos differently from emotion content. Specifically, we train EMOTE with additional supervision in the form of a lip-reading objective to preserve the speech-dependent content (spatially local and high temporal frequency), while utilizing emotion supervision on a sequence-level (spatially global and low frequency). Furthermore, we employ a content-emotion exchange mechanism in order to supervise different emotion on the same audio, while maintaining the lip motion synchronized with the speech. To employ deep perceptual losses without getting undesirable artifacts, we devise a motion prior in form of a temporal VAE. Extensive qualitative, quantitative, and perceptual evaluations demonstrate that EMOTE produces state-of-the-art speech-driven facial animations, with lip sync on par with the best methods while offering additional, high-quality emotional control. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Exploring the MIT Mathematics and EECS Curriculum Using Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08997  
**Abstract:** We curate a comprehensive dataset of 4,550 questions and solutions from problem sets, midterm exams, and final exams across all MIT Mathematics and Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) courses required for obtaining a degree. We evaluate the ability of large language models to fulfill the graduation requirements for any MIT major in Mathematics and EECS. Our results demonstrate that GPT-3.5 successfully solves a third of the entire MIT curriculum, while GPT-4, with prompt engineering, achieves a perfect solve rate on a test set excluding questions based on images. We fine-tune an open-source large language model on this dataset. We employ GPT-4 to automatically grade model responses, providing a detailed performance breakdown by course, question, and answer type. By embedding questions in a low-dimensional space, we explore the relationships between questions, topics, and classes and discover which questions and classes are required for solving other questions and classes through few-shot learning. Our analysis offers valuable insights into course prerequisites and curriculum design, highlighting language models' potential for learning and improving Mathematics and EECS education. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Exploring the Application of Large-scale Pre-trained Models on Adverse  Weather Removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09008  
**Abstract:** Image restoration under adverse weather conditions (e.g., rain, snow and haze) is a fundamental computer vision problem and has important indications for various downstream applications. Different from early methods that are specially designed for specific type of weather, most recent works tend to remove various adverse weather effects simultaneously through either spatial feature representation learning or semantic information embedding. Inspired by the various successful applications of large-scale pre-trained models (e.g, CLIP), in this paper, we explore the potential benefits of them for this task through both spatial feature representation learning and semantic information embedding aspects: 1) for spatial feature representation learning, we design a Spatially-Adaptive Residual (\textbf{SAR}) Encoder to extract degraded areas adaptively. To facilitate its training, we propose a Soft Residual Distillation (\textbf{CLIP-SRD}) strategy to transfer the spatial knowledge from CLIP between clean and adverse weather images; 2) for semantic information embedding, we propose a CLIP Weather Prior (\textbf{CWP}) embedding module to make the network handle different weather conditions adaptively. This module integrates the sample specific weather prior extracted by CLIP image encoder together with the distribution specific information learned by a set of parameters, and embeds them through a cross attention mechanism. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed method can achieve state-of-the-art performance under different and challenging adverse weather conditions. Code will be made available. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** CoverHunter: Cover Song Identification with Refined Attention and  Alignments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09025  
**Abstract:** Abstract: Cover song identification (CSI) focuses on finding the same music with different versions in reference anchors given a query track. In this paper, we propose a novel system named CoverHunter that overcomes the shortcomings of existing detection schemes by exploring richer features with refined attention and alignments. CoverHunter contains three key modules: 1) A convolution-augmented transformer (i.e., Conformer) structure that captures both local and global feature interactions in contrast to previous methods mainly relying on convolutional neural networks; 2) An attention-based time pooling module that further exploits the attention in the time dimension; 3) A novel coarse-to-fine training scheme that first trains a network to roughly align the song chunks and then refines the network by training on the aligned chunks. At the same time, we also summarize some important training tricks used in our system that help achieve better results. Experiments on several standard CSI datasets show that our method significantly improves over state-of-the-art methods with an embedding size of 128 (2.3% on SHS100K-TEST and 17.7% on DaTacos). 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Mapping Researcher Activity based on Publication Data by means of  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09049  
**Abstract:** Modern performance on several natural language processing (NLP) tasks has been enhanced thanks to the Transformer-based pre-trained language model BERT. We employ this concept to investigate a local publication database. Research papers are encoded and clustered to form a landscape view of the scientific topics, in which research is active. Authors working on similar topics can be identified by calculating the similarity between their papers. Based on this, we define a similarity metric between authors. Additionally we introduce the concept of self-similarity to indicate the topical variety of authors. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Relation-Aware Diffusion Model for Controllable Poster Layout Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09086  
**Abstract:** Poster layout is a crucial aspect of poster design. Prior methods primarily focus on the correlation between visual content and graphic elements. However, a pleasant layout should also consider the relationship between visual and textual contents and the relationship between elements. In this study, we introduce a relation-aware diffusion model for poster layout generation that incorporates these two relationships in the generation process. Firstly, we devise a visual-textual relation-aware module that aligns the visual and textual representations across modalities, thereby enhancing the layout's efficacy in conveying textual information. Subsequently, we propose a geometry relation-aware module that learns the geometry relationship between elements by comprehensively considering contextual information. Additionally, the proposed method can generate diverse layouts based on user constraints. To advance research in this field, we have constructed a poster layout dataset named CGL-Dataset V2. Our proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on CGL-Dataset V2. The data and code will be available at https://github.com/liuan0803/RADM. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Deep learning based Meta-modeling for Multi-objective Technology  Optimization of Electrical Machines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09087  
**Abstract:** Optimization of rotating electrical machines is both time- and computationally expensive. Because of the different parametrization, design optimization is commonly executed separately for each machine technology. In this paper, we present the application of a variational auto-encoder (VAE) to optimize two different machine technologies simultaneously, namely an asynchronous machine and a permanent magnet synchronous machine. After training, we employ a deep neural network and a decoder as meta-models to predict global key performance indicators (KPIs) and generate associated new designs, respectively, through unified latent space in the optimization loop. Numerical results demonstrate concurrent parametric multi-objective technology optimization in the high-dimensional design space. The VAE-based approach is quantitatively compared to a classical deep learning-based direct approach for KPIs prediction. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** Unbalanced Diffusion Schrdinger Bridge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09099  
**Abstract:** Schr\"odinger bridges (SBs) provide an elegant framework for modeling the temporal evolution of populations in physical, chemical, or biological systems. Such natural processes are commonly subject to changes in population size over time due to the emergence of new species or birth and death events. However, existing neural parameterizations of SBs such as diffusion Schr\"odinger bridges (DSBs) are restricted to settings in which the endpoints of the stochastic process are both probability measures and assume conservation of mass constraints. To address this limitation, we introduce unbalanced DSBs which model the temporal evolution of marginals with arbitrary finite mass. This is achieved by deriving the time reversal of stochastic differential equations with killing and birth terms. We present two novel algorithmic schemes that comprise a scalable objective function for training unbalanced DSBs and provide a theoretical analysis alongside challenging applications on predicting heterogeneous molecular single-cell responses to various cancer drugs and simulating the emergence and spread of new viral variants. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Transformer-aided Wireless Image Transmission with Channel Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09101  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel wireless image transmission paradigm that can exploit feedback from the receiver, called DeepJSCC-ViT-f. We consider a block feedback channel model, where the transmitter receives noiseless/noisy channel output feedback after each block. The proposed scheme employs a single encoder to facilitate transmission over multiple blocks, refining the receiver's estimation at each block. Specifically, the unified encoder of DeepJSCC-ViT-f can leverage the semantic information from the source image, and acquire channel state information and the decoder's current belief about the source image from the feedback signal to generate coded symbols at each block. Numerical experiments show that our DeepJSCC-ViT-f scheme achieves state-of-the-art transmission performance with robustness to noise in the feedback link. Additionally, DeepJSCC-ViT-f can adapt to the channel condition directly through feedback without the need for separate channel estimation. We further extend the scope of the DeepJSCC-ViT-f approach to include the broadcast channel, which enables the transmitter to generate broadcast codes in accordance with signal semantics and channel feedback from individual receivers. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Performance Evaluation and Comparison of a New Regression Algorithm  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09105  
**Abstract:** In recent years, Machine Learning algorithms, in particular supervised learning techniques, have been shown to be very effective in solving regression problems. We compare the performance of a newly proposed regression algorithm against four conventional machine learning algorithms namely, Decision Trees, Random Forest, k-Nearest Neighbours and XG Boost. The proposed algorithm was presented in detail in a previous paper but detailed comparisons were not included. We do an in-depth comparison, using the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) as the performance metric, on a diverse set of datasets to illustrate the great potential and robustness of the proposed approach. The reader is free to replicate our results since we have provided the source code in a GitHub repository while the datasets are publicly available. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Relational Temporal Graph Reasoning for Dual-task Dialogue Language  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09114  
**Abstract:** Dual-task dialog language understanding aims to tackle two correlative dialog language understanding tasks simultaneously via leveraging their inherent correlations. In this paper, we put forward a new framework, whose core is relational temporal graph reasoning.We propose a speaker-aware temporal graph (SATG) and a dual-task relational temporal graph (DRTG) to facilitate relational temporal modeling in dialog understanding and dual-task reasoning. Besides, different from previous works that only achieve implicit semantics-level interactions, we propose to model the explicit dependencies via integrating prediction-level interactions. To implement our framework, we first propose a novel model Dual-tAsk temporal Relational rEcurrent Reasoning network (DARER), which first generates the context-, speaker- and temporal-sensitive utterance representations through relational temporal modeling of SATG, then conducts recurrent dual-task relational temporal graph reasoning on DRTG, in which process the estimated label distributions act as key clues in prediction-level interactions. And the relational temporal modeling in DARER is achieved by relational convolutional networks (RGCNs). Then we further propose Relational Temporal Transformer (ReTeFormer), which achieves fine-grained relational temporal modeling via Relation- and Structure-aware Disentangled Multi-head Attention. Accordingly, we propose DARER with ReTeFormer (DARER2), which adopts two variants of ReTeFormer to achieve the relational temporal modeling of SATG and DTRG, respectively. The extensive experiments on different scenarios verify that our models outperform state-of-the-art models by a large margin. Remarkably, on the dialog sentiment classification task in the Mastodon dataset, DARER and DARER2 gain relative improvements of about 28% and 34% over the previous best model in terms of F1. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** DIFFender: Diffusion-Based Adversarial Defense against Patch Attacks in  the Physical World  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09124  
**Abstract:** Adversarial attacks in the physical world, particularly patch attacks, pose significant threats to the robustness and reliability of deep learning models. Developing reliable defenses against patch attacks is crucial for real-world applications, yet current research in this area is severely lacking. In this paper, we propose DIFFender, a novel defense method that leverages the pre-trained diffusion model to perform both localization and defense against potential adversarial patch attacks. DIFFender is designed as a pipeline consisting of two main stages: patch localization and restoration. In the localization stage, we exploit the intriguing properties of a diffusion model to effectively identify the locations of adversarial patches. In the restoration stage, we employ a text-guided diffusion model to eliminate adversarial regions in the image while preserving the integrity of the visual content. Additionally, we design a few-shot prompt-tuning algorithm to facilitate simple and efficient tuning, enabling the learned representations to easily transfer to downstream tasks, which optimize two stages jointly. We conduct extensive experiments on image classification and face recognition to demonstrate that DIFFender exhibits superior robustness under strong adaptive attacks and generalizes well across various scenarios, diverse classifiers, and multiple attack methods. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Artificial intelligence adoption in the physical sciences, natural  sciences, life sciences, social sciences and the arts and humanities: A  bibliometric analysis of research publications from 1960-2021  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09145  
**Abstract:** Analysing historical patterns of artificial intelligence (AI) adoption can inform decisions about AI capability uplift, but research to date has provided a limited view of AI adoption across various fields of research. In this study we examine worldwide adoption of AI technology within 333 fields of research during 1960-2021. We do this by using bibliometric analysis with 137 million peer-reviewed publications captured in The Lens database. We define AI using a list of 214 phrases developed by expert working groups at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). We found that 3.1 million of the 137 million peer-reviewed research publications during the entire period were AI-related, with a surge in AI adoption across practically all research fields (physical science, natural science, life science, social science and the arts and humanities) in recent years. The diffusion of AI beyond computer science was early, rapid and widespread. In 1960 14% of 333 research fields were related to AI (many in computer science), but this increased to cover over half of all research fields by 1972, over 80% by 1986 and over 98% in current times. We note AI has experienced boom-bust cycles historically: the AI "springs" and "winters". We conclude that the context of the current surge appears different, and that interdisciplinary AI application is likely to be sustained. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Can ChatGPT pass the Vietnamese National High School Graduation  Examination?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09170  
**Abstract:** This research article highlights the potential of AI-powered chatbots in education and presents the results of using ChatGPT, a large language model, to complete the Vietnamese National High School Graduation Examination (VNHSGE). The study dataset included 30 essays in the literature test case and 1,700 multiple-choice questions designed for other subjects. The results showed that ChatGPT was able to pass the examination with an average score of 6-7, demonstrating the technology's potential to revolutionize the educational landscape. The analysis of ChatGPT performance revealed its proficiency in a range of subjects, including mathematics, English, physics, chemistry, biology, history, geography, civic education, and literature, which suggests its potential to provide effective support for learners. However, further research is needed to assess ChatGPT performance on more complex exam questions and its potential to support learners in different contexts. As technology continues to evolve and improve, we can expect to see the use of AI tools like ChatGPT become increasingly common in educational settings, ultimately enhancing the educational experience for both students and educators. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** Training Diffusion Classifiers with Denoising Assistance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09192  
**Abstract:** Score-matching and diffusion models have emerged as state-of-the-art generative models for both conditional and unconditional generation. Classifier-guided diffusion models are created by training a classifier on samples obtained from the forward-diffusion process (i.e., from data to noise). In this paper, we propose denoising-assisted (DA) classifiers wherein the diffusion classifier is trained using both noisy and denoised examples as simultaneous inputs to the model. We differentiate between denoising-assisted (DA) classifiers and noisy classifiers, which are diffusion classifiers that are only trained on noisy examples. Our experiments on Cifar10 and Imagenet show that DA-classifiers improve over noisy classifiers both quantitatively in terms of generalization to test data and qualitatively in terms of perceptually-aligned classifier-gradients and generative modeling metrics. Finally, we describe a semi-supervised framework for training diffusion classifiers and our experiments, that also include positive-unlabeled settings, demonstrate improved generalization of DA-classifiers over noisy classifiers. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Undetectable Watermarks for Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09194  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in the capabilities of large language models such as GPT-4 have spurred increasing concern about our ability to detect AI-generated text. Prior works have suggested methods of embedding watermarks in model outputs, by noticeably altering the output distribution. We ask: Is it possible to introduce a watermark without incurring any detectable change to the output distribution? 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** ChessGPT: Bridging Policy Learning and Language Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09200  
**Abstract:** When solving decision-making tasks, humans typically depend on information from two key sources: (1) Historical policy data, which provides interaction replay from the environment, and (2) Analytical insights in natural language form, exposing the invaluable thought process or strategic considerations. Despite this, the majority of preceding research focuses on only one source: they either use historical replay exclusively to directly learn policy or value functions, or engaged in language model training utilizing mere language corpus. In this paper, we argue that a powerful autonomous agent should cover both sources. Thus, we propose ChessGPT, a GPT model bridging policy learning and language modeling by integrating data from these two sources in Chess games. Specifically, we build a large-scale game and language dataset related to chess. Leveraging the dataset, we showcase two model examples ChessCLIP and ChessGPT, integrating policy learning and language modeling. Finally, we propose a full evaluation framework for evaluating language model's chess ability. Experimental results validate our model and dataset's effectiveness. We open source our code, model, and dataset at https://github.com/waterhorse1/ChessGPT. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** Transferring Knowledge for Food Image Segmentation using Transformers  and Convolutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09203  
**Abstract:** Food image segmentation is an important task that has ubiquitous applications, such as estimating the nutritional value of a plate of food. Although machine learning models have been used for segmentation in this domain, food images pose several challenges. One challenge is that food items can overlap and mix, making them difficult to distinguish. Another challenge is the degree of inter-class similarity and intra-class variability, which is caused by the varying preparation methods and dishes a food item may be served in. Additionally, class imbalance is an inevitable issue in food datasets. To address these issues, two models are trained and compared, one based on convolutional neural networks and the other on Bidirectional Encoder representation for Image Transformers (BEiT). The models are trained and valuated using the FoodSeg103 dataset, which is identified as a robust benchmark for food image segmentation. The BEiT model outperforms the previous state-of-the-art model by achieving a mean intersection over union of 49.4 on FoodSeg103. This study provides insights into transfering knowledge using convolution and Transformer-based approaches in the food image domain. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Stochastic Re-weighted Gradient Descent via Distributionally Robust  Optimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09222  
**Abstract:** We develop a re-weighted gradient descent technique for boosting the performance of deep neural networks. Our algorithm involves the importance weighting of data points during each optimization step. Our approach is inspired by distributionally robust optimization with $f$-divergences, which has been known to result in models with improved generalization guarantees. Our re-weighting scheme is simple, computationally efficient, and can be combined with any popular optimization algorithms such as SGD and Adam. Empirically, we demonstrate our approach's superiority on various tasks, including vanilla classification, classification with label imbalance, noisy labels, domain adaptation, and tabular representation learning. Notably, we obtain improvements of +0.7% and +1.44% over SOTA on DomainBed and Tabular benchmarks, respectively. Moreover, our algorithm boosts the performance of BERT on GLUE benchmarks by +1.94%, and ViT on ImageNet-1K by +0.9%. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, indicating its potential for improving performance in diverse domains. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** Chatbots to ChatGPT in a Cybersecurity Space: Evolution,  Vulnerabilities, Attacks, Challenges, and Future Recommendations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09255  
**Abstract:** Chatbots shifted from rule-based to artificial intelligence techniques and gained traction in medicine, shopping, customer services, food delivery, education, and research. OpenAI developed ChatGPT blizzard on the Internet as it crossed one million users within five days of its launch. However, with the enhanced popularity, chatbots experienced cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities. This paper discussed the relevant literature, reports, and explanatory incident attacks generated against chatbots. Our initial point is to explore the timeline of chatbots from ELIZA (an early natural language processing computer program) to GPT-4 and provide the working mechanism of ChatGPT. Subsequently, we explored the cybersecurity attacks and vulnerabilities in chatbots. Besides, we investigated the ChatGPT, specifically in the context of creating the malware code, phishing emails, undetectable zero-day attacks, and generation of macros and LOLBINs. Furthermore, the history of cyberattacks and vulnerabilities exploited by cybercriminals are discussed, particularly considering the risk and vulnerabilities in ChatGPT. Addressing these threats and vulnerabilities requires specific strategies and measures to reduce the harmful consequences. Therefore, the future directions to address the challenges were presented. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** Are ChatGPT and Other Similar Systems the Modern Lernaean Hydras of AI?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09267  
**Abstract:** The rise of Generative Artificial Intelligence systems (``AI systems'') has created unprecedented social engagement. AI code generation systems provide responses (output) to questions or requests by accessing the vast library of open-source code created by developers over decades. However, they do so by allegedly stealing the open-source code stored in virtual libraries, known as repositories. How all this happens and whether there is a solution short of years of litigation that can protect innovation is the focus of this article. We also peripherally touch upon the array of issues raised by the relationship between AI and copyright. Looking ahead, we propose the following: (a) immediate changes to the licenses for open-source code created by developers that will allow access and/or use of any open-source code to humans only; (b) we suggest revisions to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (``MIT'') license so that AI systems procure appropriate licenses from open-source code developers, which we believe will harmonize standards and build social consensus for the benefit of all of humanity rather than profit-driven centers of innovation; (c) We call for urgent legislative action to protect the future of AI systems while also promoting innovation; and (d) we propose that there is a shift in the burden of proof to AI systems in obfuscation cases. 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** Conditional Human Sketch Synthesis with Explicit Abstraction Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09274  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel free-hand sketch synthesis approach addressing explicit abstraction control in class-conditional and photo-to-sketch synthesis. Abstraction is a vital aspect of sketches, as it defines the fundamental distinction between a sketch and an image. Previous works relied on implicit control to achieve different levels of abstraction, leading to inaccurate control and synthesized sketches deviating from human sketches. To resolve this challenge, we propose two novel abstraction control mechanisms, state embeddings and the stroke token, integrated into a transformer-based latent diffusion model (LDM). These mechanisms explicitly provide the required amount of points or strokes to the model, enabling accurate point-level and stroke-level control in synthesized sketches while preserving recognizability. Outperforming state-of-the-art approaches, our method effectively generates diverse, non-rigid and human-like sketches. The proposed approach enables coherent sketch synthesis and excels in representing human habits with desired abstraction levels, highlighting the potential of sketch synthesis for real-world applications. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** Fast Training of Diffusion Models with Masked Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09305  
**Abstract:** We propose an efficient approach to train large diffusion models with masked transformers. While masked transformers have been extensively explored for representation learning, their application to generative learning is less explored in the vision domain. Our work is the first to exploit masked training to reduce the training cost of diffusion models significantly. Specifically, we randomly mask out a high proportion (\emph{e.g.}, 50\%) of patches in diffused input images during training. For masked training, we introduce an asymmetric encoder-decoder architecture consisting of a transformer encoder that operates only on unmasked patches and a lightweight transformer decoder on full patches. To promote a long-range understanding of full patches, we add an auxiliary task of reconstructing masked patches to the denoising score matching objective that learns the score of unmasked patches. Experiments on ImageNet-256$\times$256 show that our approach achieves the same performance as the state-of-the-art Diffusion Transformer (DiT) model, using only 31\% of its original training time. Thus, our method allows for efficient training of diffusion models without sacrificing the generative performance. 

**ID:** 94  
**Title:** Semantic HELM: An Interpretable Memory for Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09312  
**Abstract:** Reinforcement learning agents deployed in the real world often have to cope with partially observable environments. Therefore, most agents employ memory mechanisms to approximate the state of the environment. Recently, there have been impressive success stories in mastering partially observable environments, mostly in the realm of computer games like Dota 2, StarCraft II, or MineCraft. However, none of these methods are interpretable in the sense that it is not comprehensible for humans how the agent decides which actions to take based on its inputs. Yet, human understanding is necessary in order to deploy such methods in high-stake domains like autonomous driving or medical applications. We propose a novel memory mechanism that operates on human language to illuminate the decision-making process. First, we use CLIP to associate visual inputs with language tokens. Then we feed these tokens to a pretrained language model that serves the agent as memory and provides it with a coherent and interpretable representation of the past. Our memory mechanism achieves state-of-the-art performance in environments where memorizing the past is crucial to solve tasks. Further, we present situations where our memory component excels or fails to demonstrate strengths and weaknesses of our new approach. 

**ID:** 95  
**Title:** Diffusion Models for Zero-Shot Open-Vocabulary Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09316  
**Abstract:** The variety of objects in the real world is nearly unlimited and is thus impossible to capture using models trained on a fixed set of categories. As a result, in recent years, open-vocabulary methods have attracted the interest of the community. This paper proposes a new method for zero-shot open-vocabulary segmentation. Prior work largely relies on contrastive training using image-text pairs, leveraging grouping mechanisms to learn image features that are both aligned with language and well-localised. This however can introduce ambiguity as the visual appearance of images with similar captions often varies. Instead, we leverage the generative properties of large-scale text-to-image diffusion models to sample a set of support images for a given textual category. This provides a distribution of appearances for a given text circumventing the ambiguity problem. We further propose a mechanism that considers the contextual background of the sampled images to better localise objects and segment the background directly. We show that our method can be used to ground several existing pre-trained self-supervised feature extractors in natural language and provide explainable predictions by mapping back to regions in the support set. Our proposal is training-free, relying on pre-trained components only, yet, shows strong performance on a range of open-vocabulary segmentation benchmarks, obtaining a lead of more than 10% on the Pascal VOC benchmark. 

**ID:** 96  
**Title:** ArtFusion: Arbitrary Style Transfer using Dual Conditional Latent  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09330  
**Abstract:** Arbitrary Style Transfer (AST) aims to transform images by adopting the style from any selected artwork. Nonetheless, the need to accommodate diverse and subjective user preferences poses a significant challenge. While some users wish to preserve distinct content structures, others might favor a more pronounced stylization. Despite advances in feed-forward AST methods, their limited customizability hinders their practical application. We propose a new approach, ArtFusion, which provides a flexible balance between content and style. In contrast to traditional methods reliant on biased similarity losses, ArtFusion utilizes our innovative Dual Conditional Latent Diffusion Probabilistic Models (Dual-cLDM). This approach mitigates repetitive patterns and enhances subtle artistic aspects like brush strokes and genre-specific features. Despite the promising results of conditional diffusion probabilistic models (cDM) in various generative tasks, their introduction to style transfer is challenging due to the requirement for paired training data. ArtFusion successfully navigates this issue, offering more practical and controllable stylization. A key element of our approach involves using a single image for both content and style during model training, all the while maintaining effective stylization during inference. ArtFusion outperforms existing approaches on outstanding controllability and faithful presentation of artistic details, providing evidence of its superior style transfer capabilities. Furthermore, the Dual-cLDM utilized in ArtFusion carries the potential for a variety of complex multi-condition generative tasks, thus greatly broadening the impact of our research. 

**ID:** 97  
**Title:** Seeing the Pose in the Pixels: Learning Pose-Aware Representations in  Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09331  
**Abstract:** Human perception of surroundings is often guided by the various poses present within the environment. Many computer vision tasks, such as human action recognition and robot imitation learning, rely on pose-based entities like human skeletons or robotic arms. However, conventional Vision Transformer (ViT) models uniformly process all patches, neglecting valuable pose priors in input videos. We argue that incorporating poses into RGB data is advantageous for learning fine-grained and viewpoint-agnostic representations. Consequently, we introduce two strategies for learning pose-aware representations in ViTs. The first method, called Pose-aware Attention Block (PAAB), is a plug-and-play ViT block that performs localized attention on pose regions within videos. The second method, dubbed Pose-Aware Auxiliary Task (PAAT), presents an auxiliary pose prediction task optimized jointly with the primary ViT task. Although their functionalities differ, both methods succeed in learning pose-aware representations, enhancing performance in multiple diverse downstream tasks. Our experiments, conducted across seven datasets, reveal the efficacy of both pose-aware methods on three video analysis tasks, with PAAT holding a slight edge over PAAB. Both PAAT and PAAB surpass their respective backbone Transformers by up to 9.8% in real-world action recognition and 21.8% in multi-view robotic video alignment. Code is available at https://github.com/dominickrei/PoseAwareVT. 

**ID:** 98  
**Title:** Generative Proxemics: A Prior for 3D Social Interaction from Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09337  
**Abstract:** Social interaction is a fundamental aspect of human behavior and communication. The way individuals position themselves in relation to others, also known as proxemics, conveys social cues and affects the dynamics of social interaction. We present a novel approach that learns a 3D proxemics prior of two people in close social interaction. Since collecting a large 3D dataset of interacting people is a challenge, we rely on 2D image collections where social interactions are abundant. We achieve this by reconstructing pseudo-ground truth 3D meshes of interacting people from images with an optimization approach using existing ground-truth contact maps. We then model the proxemics using a novel denoising diffusion model called BUDDI that learns the joint distribution of two people in close social interaction directly in the SMPL-X parameter space. Sampling from our generative proxemics model produces realistic 3D human interactions, which we validate through a user study. Additionally, we introduce a new optimization method that uses the diffusion prior to reconstruct two people in close proximity from a single image without any contact annotation. Our approach recovers more accurate and plausible 3D social interactions from noisy initial estimates and outperforms state-of-the-art methods. See our project site for code, data, and model: muelea.github.io/buddi. 

**ID:** 99  
**Title:** From BERT to GPT-3 Codex: Harnessing the Potential of Very Large  Language Models for Data Management  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09339  
**Abstract:** Large language models have recently advanced the state of the art on many natural language processing benchmarks. The newest generation of models can be applied to a variety of tasks with little to no specialized training. This technology creates various opportunities for applications in the context of data management. 

**ID:** 100  
**Title:** Human Preference Score v2: A Solid Benchmark for Evaluating Human  Preferences of Text-to-Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09341  
**Abstract:** Recent text-to-image generative models can generate high-fidelity images from text inputs, but the quality of these generated images cannot be accurately evaluated by existing evaluation metrics. To address this issue, we introduce Human Preference Dataset v2 (HPD v2), a large-scale dataset that captures human preferences on images from a wide range of sources. HPD v2 comprises 798,090 human preference choices on 430,060 pairs of images, making it the largest dataset of its kind. The text prompts and images are deliberately collected to eliminate potential bias, which is a common issue in previous datasets. By fine-tuning CLIP on HPD v2, we obtain Human Preference Score v2 (HPS v2), a scoring model that can more accurately predict text-generated images' human preferences. Our experiments demonstrate that HPS v2 generalizes better than previous metrics across various image distributions and is responsive to algorithmic improvements of text-to-image generative models, making it a preferable evaluation metric for these models. We also investigate the design of the evaluation prompts for text-to-image generative models, to make the evaluation stable, fair and easy-to-use. Finally, we establish a benchmark for text-to-image generative models using HPS v2, which includes a set of recent text-to-image models from the academia, community and industry. The code and dataset is / will be available at https://github.com/tgxs002/HPSv2. 

**ID:** 101  
**Title:** Evaluating Data Attribution for Text-to-Image Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09345  
**Abstract:** While large text-to-image models are able to synthesize "novel" images, these images are necessarily a reflection of the training data. The problem of data attribution in such models -- which of the images in the training set are most responsible for the appearance of a given generated image -- is a difficult yet important one. As an initial step toward this problem, we evaluate attribution through "customization" methods, which tune an existing large-scale model toward a given exemplar object or style. Our key insight is that this allows us to efficiently create synthetic images that are computationally influenced by the exemplar by construction. With our new dataset of such exemplar-influenced images, we are able to evaluate various data attribution algorithms and different possible feature spaces. Furthermore, by training on our dataset, we can tune standard models, such as DINO, CLIP, and ViT, toward the attribution problem. Even though the procedure is tuned towards small exemplar sets, we show generalization to larger sets. Finally, by taking into account the inherent uncertainty of the problem, we can assign soft attribution scores over a set of training images. 

**ID:** 102  
**Title:** UrbanIR: Large-Scale Urban Scene Inverse Rendering from a Single Video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09349  
**Abstract:** We show how to build a model that allows realistic, free-viewpoint renderings of a scene under novel lighting conditions from video. Our method -- UrbanIR: Urban Scene Inverse Rendering -- computes an inverse graphics representation from the video. UrbanIR jointly infers shape, albedo, visibility, and sun and sky illumination from a single video of unbounded outdoor scenes with unknown lighting. UrbanIR uses videos from cameras mounted on cars (in contrast to many views of the same points in typical NeRF-style estimation). As a result, standard methods produce poor geometry estimates (for example, roofs), and there are numerous ''floaters''. Errors in inverse graphics inference can result in strong rendering artifacts. UrbanIR uses novel losses to control these and other sources of error. UrbanIR uses a novel loss to make very good estimates of shadow volumes in the original scene. The resulting representations facilitate controllable editing, delivering photorealistic free-viewpoint renderings of relit scenes and inserted objects. Qualitative evaluation demonstrates strong improvements over the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 103  
**Title:** Improving Zero-Shot Detection of Low Prevalence Chest Pathologies using  Domain Pre-trained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08000  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in zero-shot learning have enabled the use of paired image-text data to replace structured labels, replacing the need for expert annotated datasets. Models such as CLIP-based CheXzero utilize these advancements in the domain of chest X-ray interpretation. We hypothesize that domain pre-trained models such as CXR-BERT, BlueBERT, and ClinicalBERT offer the potential to improve the performance of CLIP-like models with specific domain knowledge by replacing BERT weights at the cost of breaking the original model's alignment. We evaluate the performance of zero-shot classification models with domain-specific pre-training for detecting low-prevalence pathologies. Even though replacing the weights of the original CLIP-BERT degrades model performance on commonly found pathologies, we show that pre-trained text towers perform exceptionally better on low-prevalence diseases. This motivates future ensemble models with a combination of differently trained language models for maximal performance. 

**ID:** 104  
**Title:** Investigation of Fractional Compartmental Models with Application to  Amiodarone Drug Diffusion in Pharmacokinetics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08015  
**Abstract:** This paper presents three fractional models formulated from a classical Pharmacokinetics compartmental system: commensurable, non-commensurable, and implicit non-commensurable models. Their distinguishing characteristics are further examined comprehensively. Because analytic solutions for such models are typically challenging to obtain, we study the application of the Fractional Finite Difference Method (FFDM) to simulate approximate solutions. The characteristic of the non-commensurable model is shown to be incompatible with the concept of mass balance. However, it appeared to outlast fractional calculus theory when simulating anomalous kinetics. We proved this by fitting the proposed fractional and classical models to an experimental data set (amiodarone) and estimated the parameters using the least-square approach. The classical model diverged, but the non-commensurable model predicted a fit comparable to the other two fractional models. The fractional models described anomalous diffusion better than classical theories. The numerical results showed that the proposed numerical method is equally efficient in solving any complex compartmental models, as they performed well in simulations for the classic example of the model. 

**ID:** 105  
**Title:** Data Augmentation for Seizure Prediction with Generative Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08256  
**Abstract:** Objective: Seizure prediction is of great importance to improve the life of patients. The focal point is to distinguish preictal states from interictal ones. With the development of machine learning, seizure prediction methods have achieved significant progress. However, the severe imbalance problem between preictal and interictal data still poses a great challenge, restricting the performance of classifiers. Data augmentation is an intuitive way to solve this problem. Existing data augmentation methods generate samples by overlapping or recombining data. The distribution of generated samples is limited by original data, because such transformations cannot fully explore the feature space and offer new information. As the epileptic EEG representation varies among seizures, these generated samples cannot provide enough diversity to achieve high performance on a new seizure. As a consequence, we propose a novel data augmentation method with diffusion model called DiffEEG. Methods: Diffusion models are a class of generative models that consist of two processes. Specifically, in the diffusion process, the model adds noise to the input EEG sample step by step and converts the noisy sample into output random noise, exploring the distribution of data by minimizing the loss between the output and the noise added. In the denoised process, the model samples the synthetic data by removing the noise gradually, diffusing the data distribution to outward areas and narrowing the distance between different clusters. Results: We compared DiffEEG with existing methods, and integrated them into three representative classifiers. The experiments indicate that DiffEEG could further improve the performance and shows superiority to existing methods. Conclusion: This paper proposes a novel and effective method to solve the imbalanced problem and demonstrates the effectiveness and generality of our method. 

**ID:** 106  
**Title:** Langevin Monte Carlo for strongly log-concave distributions: Randomized  midpoint revisited  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08494  
**Abstract:** We revisit the problem of sampling from a target distribution that has a smooth strongly log-concave density everywhere in $\mathbb R^p$. In this context, if no additional density information is available, the randomized midpoint discretization for the kinetic Langevin diffusion is known to be the most scalable method in high dimensions with large condition numbers. Our main result is a nonasymptotic and easy to compute upper bound on the Wasserstein-2 error of this method. To provide a more thorough explanation of our method for establishing the computable upper bound, we conduct an analysis of the midpoint discretization for the vanilla Langevin process. This analysis helps to clarify the underlying principles and provides valuable insights that we use to establish an improved upper bound for the kinetic Langevin process with the midpoint discretization. Furthermore, by applying these techniques we establish new guarantees for the kinetic Langevin process with Euler discretization, which have a better dependence on the condition number than existing upper bounds. 

**ID:** 107  
**Title:** Variance-Preserving-Based Interpolation Diffusion Models for Speech  Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08527  
**Abstract:** The goal of this study is to implement diffusion models for speech enhancement (SE). The first step is to emphasize the theoretical foundation of variance-preserving (VP)-based interpolation diffusion under continuous conditions. Subsequently, we present a more concise framework that encapsulates both the VP- and variance-exploding (VE)-based interpolation diffusion methods. We demonstrate that these two methods are special cases of the proposed framework. Additionally, we provide a practical example of VP-based interpolation diffusion for the SE task. To improve performance and ease model training, we analyze the common difficulties encountered in diffusion models and suggest amenable hyper-parameters. Finally, we evaluate our model against several methods using a public benchmark to showcase the effectiveness of our approach 

**ID:** 108  
**Title:** M^2UNet: MetaFormer Multi-scale Upsampling Network for Polyp  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08600  
**Abstract:** Polyp segmentation has recently garnered significant attention, and multiple methods have been formulated to achieve commendable outcomes. However, these techniques often confront difficulty when working with the complex polyp foreground and their surrounding regions because of the nature of convolution operation. Besides, most existing methods forget to exploit the potential information from multiple decoder stages. To address this challenge, we suggest combining MetaFormer, introduced as a baseline for integrating CNN and Transformer, with UNet framework and incorporating our Multi-scale Upsampling block (MU). This simple module makes it possible to combine multi-level information by exploring multiple receptive field paths of the shallow decoder stage and then adding with the higher stage to aggregate better feature representation, which is essential in medical image segmentation. Taken all together, we propose MetaFormer Multi-scale Upsampling Network (M$^2$UNet) for the polyp segmentation task. Extensive experiments on five benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method achieved competitive performance compared with several previous methods. 

**ID:** 109  
**Title:** GHP-MOFassemble: Diffusion modeling, high throughput screening, and  molecular dynamics for rational discovery of novel metal-organic frameworks  for carbon capture at scale  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08695  
**Abstract:** We introduce GHP-MOFassemble, a Generative artificial intelligence (AI), High Performance framework to accelerate the rational design of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) with high CO2 capacity and synthesizable linkers. Our framework combines a diffusion model, a class of generative AI, to generate novel linkers that are assembled with one of three pre-selected nodes into MOFs in a primitive cubic (pcu) topology. The CO2 capacities of these AI-generated MOFs are predicted using a modified version of the crystal graph convolutional neural network model. We then use the LAMMPS code to perform molecular dynamics simulations to relax the AI-generated MOF structures, and identify those that converge to stable structures, and maintain their porous properties throughout the simulations. Among 120,000 pcu MOF candidates generated by the GHP-MOFassemble framework, with three distinct metal nodes (Cu paddlewheel, Zn paddlewheel, Zn tetramer), a total of 102 structures completed molecular dynamics simulations at 1 bar with predicted CO2 capacity higher than 2 mmol/g at 0.1 bar, which corresponds to the top 5% of hMOFs in the hypothetical MOF (hMOF) dataset in the MOFX-DB database. Among these candidates, 18 have change in density lower than 1% during molecular dynamics simulations, indicating their stability. We also found that the top five GHP-MOFassemble's MOF structures have CO2 capacities higher than 96.9% of hMOF structures. This new approach combines generative AI, graph modeling, large-scale molecular dynamics simulations, and extreme scale computing to open up new pathways for the accelerated discovery of novel MOF structures at scale. 

**ID:** 110  
**Title:** PUGAN: Physical Model-Guided Underwater Image Enhancement Using GAN with  Dual-Discriminators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.08918  
**Abstract:** Due to the light absorption and scattering induced by the water medium, underwater images usually suffer from some degradation problems, such as low contrast, color distortion, and blurring details, which aggravate the difficulty of downstream underwater understanding tasks. Therefore, how to obtain clear and visually pleasant images has become a common concern of people, and the task of underwater image enhancement (UIE) has also emerged as the times require. Among existing UIE methods, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) based methods perform well in visual aesthetics, while the physical model-based methods have better scene adaptability. Inheriting the advantages of the above two types of models, we propose a physical model-guided GAN model for UIE in this paper, referred to as PUGAN. The entire network is under the GAN architecture. On the one hand, we design a Parameters Estimation subnetwork (Par-subnet) to learn the parameters for physical model inversion, and use the generated color enhancement image as auxiliary information for the Two-Stream Interaction Enhancement sub-network (TSIE-subnet). Meanwhile, we design a Degradation Quantization (DQ) module in TSIE-subnet to quantize scene degradation, thereby achieving reinforcing enhancement of key regions. On the other hand, we design the Dual-Discriminators for the style-content adversarial constraint, promoting the authenticity and visual aesthetics of the results. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate that our PUGAN outperforms state-of-the-art methods in both qualitative and quantitative metrics. 

**ID:** 111  
**Title:** Annotator Consensus Prediction for Medical Image Segmentation with  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09004  
**Abstract:** A major challenge in the segmentation of medical images is the large inter- and intra-observer variability in annotations provided by multiple experts. To address this challenge, we propose a novel method for multi-expert prediction using diffusion models. Our method leverages the diffusion-based approach to incorporate information from multiple annotations and fuse it into a unified segmentation map that reflects the consensus of multiple experts. We evaluate the performance of our method on several datasets of medical segmentation annotated by multiple experts and compare it with state-of-the-art methods. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/tomeramit/Annotator-Consensus-Prediction. 

**ID:** 112  
**Title:** MolCAP: Molecular Chemical reActivity pretraining and  prompted-finetuning enhanced molecular representation learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09187  
**Abstract:** Molecular representation learning (MRL) is a fundamental task for drug discovery. However, previous deep-learning (DL) methods focus excessively on learning robust inner-molecular representations by mask-dominated pretraining framework, neglecting abundant chemical reactivity molecular relationships that have been demonstrated as the determining factor for various molecular property prediction tasks. Here, we present MolCAP to promote MRL, a graph pretraining Transformer based on chemical reactivity (IMR) knowledge with prompted finetuning. Results show that MolCAP outperforms comparative methods based on traditional molecular pretraining framework, in 13 publicly available molecular datasets across a diversity of biomedical tasks. Prompted by MolCAP, even basic graph neural networks are capable of achieving surprising performance that outperforms previous models, indicating the promising prospect of applying reactivity information for MRL. In addition, manual designed molecular templets are potential to uncover the dataset bias. All in all, we expect our MolCAP to gain more chemical meaningful insights for the entire process of drug discovery. 

**ID:** 113  
**Title:** Towards Faster Non-Asymptotic Convergence for Diffusion-Based Generative  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09251  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models, which convert noise into new data instances by learning to reverse a Markov diffusion process, have become a cornerstone in contemporary generative modeling. While their practical power has now been widely recognized, the theoretical underpinnings remain far from mature. In this work, we develop a suite of non-asymptotic theory towards understanding the data generation process of diffusion models in discrete time, assuming access to reliable estimates of the (Stein) score functions. For a popular deterministic sampler (based on the probability flow ODE), we establish a convergence rate proportional to $1/T$ (with $T$ the total number of steps), improving upon past results; for another mainstream stochastic sampler (i.e., a type of the denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM)), we derive a convergence rate proportional to $1/\sqrt{T}$, matching the state-of-the-art theory. Our theory imposes only minimal assumptions on the target data distribution (e.g., no smoothness assumption is imposed), and is developed based on an elementary yet versatile non-asymptotic approach without resorting to toolboxes for SDEs and ODEs. Further, we design two accelerated variants, improving the convergence to $1/T^2$ for the ODE-based sampler and $1/T$ for the DDPM-type sampler, which might be of independent theoretical and empirical interest. 

