**ID:** 1  
**Title:** TSMixer: Lightweight MLP-Mixer Model for Multivariate Time Series  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09364  
**Abstract:** Transformers have gained popularity in time series forecasting for their ability to capture long-sequence interactions. However, their high memory and computing requirements pose a critical bottleneck for long-term forecasting. To address this, we propose TSMixer, a lightweight neural architecture exclusively composed of multi-layer perceptron (MLP) modules. TSMixer is designed for multivariate forecasting and representation learning on patched time series, providing an efficient alternative to Transformers. Our model draws inspiration from the success of MLP-Mixer models in computer vision. We demonstrate the challenges involved in adapting Vision MLP-Mixer for time series and introduce empirically validated components to enhance accuracy. This includes a novel design paradigm of attaching online reconciliation heads to the MLP-Mixer backbone, for explicitly modeling the time-series properties such as hierarchy and channel-correlations. We also propose a Hybrid channel modeling approach to effectively handle noisy channel interactions and generalization across diverse datasets, a common challenge in existing patch channel-mixing methods. Additionally, a simple gated attention mechanism is introduced in the backbone to prioritize important features. By incorporating these lightweight components, we significantly enhance the learning capability of simple MLP structures, outperforming complex Transformer models with minimal computing usage. Moreover, TSMixer's modular design enables compatibility with both supervised and masked self-supervised learning methods, making it a promising building block for time-series Foundation Models. TSMixer outperforms state-of-the-art MLP and Transformer models in forecasting by a considerable margin of 8-60%. It also outperforms the latest strong benchmarks of Patch-Transformer models (by 1-2%) with a significant reduction in memory and runtime (2-3X). 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Fault Detection in Induction Motors using Functional Dimensionality  Reduction Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09365  
**Abstract:** The implementation of strategies for fault detection and diagnosis on rotating electrical machines is crucial for the reliability and safety of modern industrial systems. The contribution of this work is a methodology that combines conventional strategy of Motor Current Signature Analysis with functional dimensionality reduction methods, namely Functional Principal Components Analysis and Functional Diffusion Maps, for detecting and classifying fault conditions in induction motors. The results obtained from the proposed scheme are very encouraging, revealing a potential use in the future not only for real-time detection of the presence of a fault in an induction motor, but also in the identification of a greater number of types of faults present through an offline analysis. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** ChatGPT for Suicide Risk Assessment on Social Media: Quantitative  Evaluation of Model Performance, Potentials and Limitations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09390  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel framework for quantitatively evaluating the interactive ChatGPT model in the context of suicidality assessment from social media posts, utilizing the University of Maryland Reddit suicidality dataset. We conduct a technical evaluation of ChatGPT's performance on this task using Zero-Shot and Few-Shot experiments and compare its results with those of two fine-tuned transformer-based models. Additionally, we investigate the impact of different temperature parameters on ChatGPT's response generation and discuss the optimal temperature based on the inconclusiveness rate of ChatGPT. Our results indicate that while ChatGPT attains considerable accuracy in this task, transformer-based models fine-tuned on human-annotated datasets exhibit superior performance. Moreover, our analysis sheds light on how adjusting the ChatGPT's hyperparameters can improve its ability to assist mental health professionals in this critical task. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Explore, Establish, Exploit: Red Teaming Language Models from Scratch  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09442  
**Abstract:** Deploying Large language models (LLMs) can pose hazards from harmful outputs such as toxic or dishonest speech. Prior work has introduced tools that elicit harmful outputs in order to identify and mitigate these risks. While this is a valuable step toward securing language models, these approaches typically rely on a pre-existing classifier for undesired outputs. This limits their application to situations where the type of harmful behavior is known with precision beforehand. However, this skips a central challenge of red teaming: developing a contextual understanding of the behaviors that a model can exhibit. Furthermore, when such a classifier already exists, red teaming has limited marginal value because the classifier could simply be used to filter training data or model outputs. In this work, we consider red teaming under the assumption that the adversary is working from a high-level, abstract specification of undesired behavior. The red team is expected to refine/extend this specification and identify methods to elicit this behavior from the model. Our red teaming framework consists of three steps: 1) Exploring the model's behavior in the desired context; 2) Establishing a measurement of undesired behavior (e.g., a classifier trained to reflect human evaluations); and 3) Exploiting the model's flaws using this measure and an established red teaming methodology. We apply this approach to red team GPT-2 and GPT-3 models to systematically discover classes of prompts that elicit toxic and dishonest statements. In doing so, we also construct and release the CommonClaim dataset of 20,000 statements that have been labeled by human subjects as common-knowledge-true, common-knowledge-false, or neither. Code is available at https://github.com/thestephencasper/explore_establish_exploit_llms. CommonClaim is available at https://github.com/thestephencasper/common_claim. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Recurrent Memory Decision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09459  
**Abstract:** Transformative models, originally developed for natural language problems, have recently been widely used in offline reinforcement learning tasks. This is due to the fact that the agent's history can be represented as a sequence, and the whole task can be reduced to the sequence modeling task. However, the quadratic complexity of the transformer operation limits the potential increase in context. Therefore, to work with long sequences in a natural language, different versions of the memory mechanism are used. In this paper, we propose the Recurrent Memory Decision Transformer (RMDT), a model that uses a recurrent memory mechanism for reinforcement learning problems. We conduct thorough experiments on Atari games and MoJoCo control problems, and show that our proposed model is significantly superior to its counterparts without the recurrent memory mechanism on Atari games. We also carefully study the effect of memory on the performance of the proposed model. These findings shed light on the potential of incorporating recurrent memory mechanisms to improve the performance of large-scale transformer models in offline reinforcement learning tasks. The Recurrent Memory Decision Transformer code is publicly available in repository \url{https://anonymous.4open.science/r/RMDT-4FE4}. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** R2-Diff: Denoising by diffusion as a refinement of retrieved motion for  image-based motion prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09483  
**Abstract:** Image-based motion prediction is one of the essential techniques for robot manipulation. Among the various prediction models, we focus on diffusion models because they have achieved state-of-the-art performance in various applications. In image-based motion prediction, diffusion models stochastically predict contextually appropriate motion by gradually denoising random Gaussian noise based on the image context. While diffusion models are able to predict various motions by changing the random noise, they sometimes fail to predict a contextually appropriate motion based on the image because the random noise is sampled independently of the image context. To solve this problem, we propose R2-Diff. In R2-Diff, a motion retrieved from a dataset based on image similarity is fed into a diffusion model instead of random noise. Then, the retrieved motion is refined through the denoising process of the diffusion model. Since the retrieved motion is almost appropriate to the context, it becomes easier to predict contextually appropriate motion. However, traditional diffusion models are not optimized to refine the retrieved motion. Therefore, we propose the method of tuning the hyperparameters based on the distance of the nearest neighbor motion among the dataset to optimize the diffusion model for refinement. Furthermore, we propose an image-based retrieval method to retrieve the nearest neighbor motion in inference. Our proposed retrieval efficiently computes the similarity based on the image features along the motion trajectory. We demonstrate that R2-Diff accurately predicts appropriate motions and achieves high task success rates compared to recent state-of-the-art models in robot manipulation. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Tighter Prediction Intervals for Causal Outcomes Under Hidden  Confounding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09520  
**Abstract:** Causal inference of exact individual treatment outcomes in the presence of hidden confounders is rarely possible. Instead, recent work has adapted conformal prediction to produce outcome intervals. Unfortunately this family of methods tends to be overly conservative, sometimes giving uninformative intervals. We introduce an alternative approach termed Caus-Modens, for characterizing causal outcome intervals by modulated ensembles. Motivated from Bayesian statistics and ensembled uncertainty quantification, Caus-Modens gives tighter outcome intervals in practice, measured by the necessary interval size to achieve sufficient coverage on three separate benchmarks. The last benchmark is a novel usage of GPT-4 for observational experiments with unknown but probeable ground truth. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Explaining Legal Concepts with Augmented Large Language Models (GPT-4)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09525  
**Abstract:** Interpreting the meaning of legal open-textured terms is a key task of legal professionals. An important source for this interpretation is how the term was applied in previous court cases. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of GPT-4 in generating factually accurate, clear and relevant explanations of terms in legislation. We compare the performance of a baseline setup, where GPT-4 is directly asked to explain a legal term, to an augmented approach, where a legal information retrieval module is used to provide relevant context to the model, in the form of sentences from case law. We found that the direct application of GPT-4 yields explanations that appear to be of very high quality on their surface. However, detailed analysis uncovered limitations in terms of the factual accuracy of the explanations. Further, we found that the augmentation leads to improved quality, and appears to eliminate the issue of hallucination, where models invent incorrect statements. These findings open the door to the building of systems that can autonomously retrieve relevant sentences from case law and condense them into a useful explanation for legal scholars, educators or practicing lawyers alike. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Hierarchical Planning and Control for Box Loco-Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09532  
**Abstract:** Humans perform everyday tasks using a combination of locomotion and manipulation skills. Building a system that can handle both skills is essential to creating virtual humans. We present a physically-simulated human capable of solving box rearrangement tasks, which requires a combination of both skills. We propose a hierarchical control architecture, where each level solves the task at a different level of abstraction, and the result is a physics-based simulated virtual human capable of rearranging boxes in a cluttered environment. The control architecture integrates a planner, diffusion models, and physics-based motion imitation of sparse motion clips using deep reinforcement learning. Boxes can vary in size, weight, shape, and placement height. Code and trained control policies are provided. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Block-State Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09539  
**Abstract:** State space models (SSMs) have shown impressive results on tasks that require modeling long-range dependencies and efficiently scale to long sequences owing to their subquadratic runtime complexity. Originally designed for continuous signals, SSMs have shown superior performance on a plethora of tasks, in vision and audio; however, SSMs still lag Transformer performance in Language Modeling tasks. In this work, we propose a hybrid layer named Block-State Transformer (BST), that internally combines an SSM sublayer for long-range contextualization, and a Block Transformer sublayer for short-term representation of sequences. We study three different, and completely parallelizable, variants that integrate SSMs and block-wise attention. We show that our model outperforms similar Transformer-based architectures on language modeling perplexity and generalizes to longer sequences. In addition, the Block-State Transformer demonstrates more than tenfold increase in speed at the layer level compared to the Block-Recurrent Transformer when model parallelization is employed. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Building blocks for complex tasks: Robust generative event extraction  for radiology reports under domain shifts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09544  
**Abstract:** This paper explores methods for extracting information from radiology reports that generalize across exam modalities to reduce requirements for annotated data. We demonstrate that multi-pass T5-based text-to-text generative models exhibit better generalization across exam modalities compared to approaches that employ BERT-based task-specific classification layers. We then develop methods that reduce the inference cost of the model, making large-scale corpus processing more feasible for clinical applications. Specifically, we introduce a generative technique that decomposes complex tasks into smaller subtask blocks, which improves a single-pass model when combined with multitask training. In addition, we leverage target-domain contexts during inference to enhance domain adaptation, enabling use of smaller models. Analyses offer insights into the benefits of different cost reduction strategies. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Training generative models from privatized data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09547  
**Abstract:** Local differential privacy (LDP) is a powerful method for privacy-preserving data collection. In this paper, we develop a framework for training Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) on differentially privatized data. We show that entropic regularization of the Wasserstein distance -- a popular regularization method in the literature that has been often leveraged for its computational benefits -- can be used to denoise the data distribution when data is privatized by common additive noise mechanisms, such as Laplace and Gaussian. This combination uniquely enables the mitigation of both the regularization bias and the effects of privatization noise, thereby enhancing the overall efficacy of the model. We analyse the proposed method, provide sample complexity results and experimental evidence to support its efficacy. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Edit-DiffNeRF: Editing 3D Neural Radiance Fields using 2D Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09551  
**Abstract:** Recent research has demonstrated that the combination of pretrained diffusion models with neural radiance fields (NeRFs) has emerged as a promising approach for text-to-3D generation. Simply coupling NeRF with diffusion models will result in cross-view inconsistency and degradation of stylized view syntheses. To address this challenge, we propose the Edit-DiffNeRF framework, which is composed of a frozen diffusion model, a proposed delta module to edit the latent semantic space of the diffusion model, and a NeRF. Instead of training the entire diffusion for each scene, our method focuses on editing the latent semantic space in frozen pretrained diffusion models by the delta module. This fundamental change to the standard diffusion framework enables us to make fine-grained modifications to the rendered views and effectively consolidate these instructions in a 3D scene via NeRF training. As a result, we are able to produce an edited 3D scene that faithfully aligns to input text instructions. Furthermore, to ensure semantic consistency across different viewpoints, we propose a novel multi-view semantic consistency loss that extracts a latent semantic embedding from the input view as a prior, and aim to reconstruct it in different views. Our proposed method has been shown to effectively edit real-world 3D scenes, resulting in 25% improvement in the alignment of the performed 3D edits with text instructions compared to prior work. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** EVOPOSE: A Recursive Transformer For 3D Human Pose Estimation With  Kinematic Structure Priors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09615  
**Abstract:** Transformer is popular in recent 3D human pose estimation, which utilizes long-term modeling to lift 2D keypoints into the 3D space. However, current transformer-based methods do not fully exploit the prior knowledge of the human skeleton provided by the kinematic structure. In this paper, we propose a novel transformer-based model EvoPose to introduce the human body prior knowledge for 3D human pose estimation effectively. Specifically, a Structural Priors Representation (SPR) module represents human priors as structural features carrying rich body patterns, e.g. joint relationships. The structural features are interacted with 2D pose sequences and help the model to achieve more informative spatiotemporal features. Moreover, a Recursive Refinement (RR) module is applied to refine the 3D pose outputs by utilizing estimated results and further injects human priors simultaneously. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of EvoPose which achieves a new state of the art on two most popular benchmarks, Human3.6M and MPI-INF-3DHP. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** CLIPSonic: Text-to-Audio Synthesis with Unlabeled Videos and Pretrained  Language-Vision Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09635  
**Abstract:** Recent work has studied text-to-audio synthesis using large amounts of paired text-audio data. However, audio recordings with high-quality text annotations can be difficult to acquire. In this work, we approach text-to-audio synthesis using unlabeled videos and pretrained language-vision models. We propose to learn the desired text-audio correspondence by leveraging the visual modality as a bridge. We train a conditional diffusion model to generate the audio track of a video, given a video frame encoded by a pretrained contrastive language-image pretraining (CLIP) model. At test time, we first explore performing a zero-shot modality transfer and condition the diffusion model with a CLIP-encoded text query. However, we observe a noticeable performance drop with respect to image queries. To close this gap, we further adopt a pretrained diffusion prior model to generate a CLIP image embedding given a CLIP text embedding. Our results show the effectiveness of the proposed method, and that the pretrained diffusion prior can reduce the modality transfer gap. While we focus on text-to-audio synthesis, the proposed model can also generate audio from image queries, and it shows competitive performance against a state-of-the-art image-to-audio synthesis model in a subjective listening test. This study offers a new direction of approaching text-to-audio synthesis that leverages the naturally-occurring audio-visual correspondence in videos and the power of pretrained language-vision models. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Echocardiography Segmentation Using Neural ODE-based Diffeomorphic  Registration Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09687  
**Abstract:** Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have recently proven their excellent ability to segment 2D cardiac ultrasound images. However, the majority of attempts to perform full-sequence segmentation of cardiac ultrasound videos either rely on models trained only on keyframe images or fail to maintain the topology over time. To address these issues, in this work, we consider segmentation of ultrasound video as a registration estimation problem and present a novel method for diffeomorphic image registration using neural ordinary differential equations (Neural ODE). In particular, we consider the registration field vector field between frames as a continuous trajectory ODE. The estimated registration field is then applied to the segmentation mask of the first frame to obtain a segment for the whole cardiac cycle. The proposed method, Echo-ODE, introduces several key improvements compared to the previous state-of-the-art. Firstly, by solving a continuous ODE, the proposed method achieves smoother segmentation, preserving the topology of segmentation maps over the whole sequence (Hausdorff distance: 3.7-4.4). Secondly, it maintains temporal consistency between frames without explicitly optimizing for temporal consistency attributes, achieving temporal consistency in 91% of the videos in the dataset. Lastly, the proposed method is able to maintain the clinical accuracy of the segmentation maps (MAE of the LVEF: 2.7-3.1). The results show that our method surpasses the previous state-of-the-art in multiple aspects, demonstrating the importance of spatial-temporal data processing for the implementation of Neural ODEs in medical imaging applications. These findings open up new research directions for solving echocardiography segmentation tasks. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** End-to-End Vectorized HD-map Construction with Piecewise Bezier Curve  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09700  
**Abstract:** Vectorized high-definition map (HD-map) construction, which focuses on the perception of centimeter-level environmental information, has attracted significant research interest in the autonomous driving community. Most existing approaches first obtain rasterized map with the segmentation-based pipeline and then conduct heavy post-processing for downstream-friendly vectorization. In this paper, by delving into parameterization-based methods, we pioneer a concise and elegant scheme that adopts unified piecewise Bezier curve. In order to vectorize changeful map elements end-to-end, we elaborate a simple yet effective architecture, named Piecewise Bezier HD-map Network (BeMapNet), which is formulated as a direct set prediction paradigm and postprocessing-free. Concretely, we first introduce a novel IPM-PE Align module to inject 3D geometry prior into BEV features through common position encoding in Transformer. Then a well-designed Piecewise Bezier Head is proposed to output the details of each map element, including the coordinate of control points and the segment number of curves. In addition, based on the progressively restoration of Bezier curve, we also present an efficient Point-Curve-Region Loss for supervising more robust and precise HD-map modeling. Extensive comparisons show that our method is remarkably superior to other existing SOTAs by 18.0 mAP at least. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Pushing the Limits of ChatGPT on NLP Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09719  
**Abstract:** Despite the success of ChatGPT, its performances on most NLP tasks are still well below the supervised baselines. In this work, we looked into the causes, and discovered that its subpar performance was caused by the following factors: (1) token limit in the prompt does not allow for the full utilization of the supervised datasets; (2) mismatch between the generation nature of ChatGPT and NLP tasks; (3) intrinsic pitfalls of LLMs models, e.g., hallucination, overly focus on certain keywords, etc. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** The Big Data Myth: Using Diffusion Models for Dataset Generation to  Train Deep Detection Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09762  
**Abstract:** Despite the notable accomplishments of deep object detection models, a major challenge that persists is the requirement for extensive amounts of training data. The process of procuring such real-world data is a laborious undertaking, which has prompted researchers to explore new avenues of research, such as synthetic data generation techniques. This study presents a framework for the generation of synthetic datasets by fine-tuning pretrained stable diffusion models. The synthetic datasets are then manually annotated and employed for training various object detection models. These detectors are evaluated on a real-world test set of 331 images and compared against a baseline model that was trained on real-world images. The results of this study reveal that the object detection models trained on synthetic data perform similarly to the baseline model. In the context of apple detection in orchards, the average precision deviation with the baseline ranges from 0.09 to 0.12. This study illustrates the potential of synthetic data generation techniques as a viable alternative to the collection of extensive training data for the training of deep models. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Understanding Deep Generative Models with Generalized Empirical  Likelihoods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09780  
**Abstract:** Understanding how well a deep generative model captures a distribution of high-dimensional data remains an important open challenge. It is especially difficult for certain model classes, such as Generative Adversarial Networks and Diffusion Models, whose models do not admit exact likelihoods. In this work, we demonstrate that generalized empirical likelihood (GEL) methods offer a family of diagnostic tools that can identify many deficiencies of deep generative models (DGMs). We show, with appropriate specification of moment conditions, that the proposed method can identify which modes have been dropped, the degree to which DGMs are mode imbalanced, and whether DGMs sufficiently capture intra-class diversity. We show how to combine techniques from Maximum Mean Discrepancy and Generalized Empirical Likelihood to create not only distribution tests that retain per-sample interpretability, but also metrics that include label information. We find that such tests predict the degree of mode dropping and mode imbalance up to 60% better than metrics such as improved precision/recall. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Building Blocks for a Complex-Valued Transformer Architecture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09827  
**Abstract:** Most deep learning pipelines are built on real-valued operations to deal with real-valued inputs such as images, speech or music signals. However, a lot of applications naturally make use of complex-valued signals or images, such as MRI or remote sensing. Additionally the Fourier transform of signals is complex-valued and has numerous applications. We aim to make deep learning directly applicable to these complex-valued signals without using projections into $\mathbb{R}^2$. Thus we add to the recent developments of complex-valued neural networks by presenting building blocks to transfer the transformer architecture to the complex domain. We present multiple versions of a complex-valued Scaled Dot-Product Attention mechanism as well as a complex-valued layer normalization. We test on a classification and a sequence generation task on the MusicNet dataset and show improved robustness to overfitting while maintaining on-par performance when compared to the real-valued transformer architecture. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Are Large Language Models Really Good Logical Reasoners? A Comprehensive  Evaluation From Deductive, Inductive and Abductive Views  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09841  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved great success in various natural language tasks. It has aroused much interest in evaluating the specific reasoning capability of LLMs, such as multilingual reasoning and mathematical reasoning. However, as one of the key reasoning perspectives, logical reasoning capability has not yet been thoroughly evaluated. In this work, we aim to bridge those gaps and provide comprehensive evaluations. Firstly, to offer systematic evaluations, this paper selects fifteen typical logical reasoning datasets and organizes them into deductive, inductive, abductive and mixed-form reasoning settings. Considering the comprehensiveness of evaluations, we include three representative LLMs (i.e., text-davinci-003, ChatGPT and BARD) and evaluate them on all selected datasets under zero-shot, one-shot and three-shot settings. Secondly, different from previous evaluations relying only on simple metrics (e.g., accuracy), we propose fine-level evaluations from objective and subjective manners, covering both answers and explanations. Also, to uncover the logical flaws of LLMs, bad cases will be attributed to five error types from two dimensions. Thirdly, to avoid the influences of knowledge bias and purely focus on benchmarking the logical reasoning capability of LLMs, we propose a new dataset with neutral content. It contains 3K samples and covers deductive, inductive and abductive reasoning settings. Based on the in-depth evaluations, this paper finally concludes the ability maps of logical reasoning capability from six dimensions (i.e., correct, rigorous, self-aware, active, oriented and no hallucination). It reflects the pros and cons of LLMs and gives guiding directions for future works. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** MixedTeacher : Knowledge Distillation for fast inference textural  anomaly detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09859  
**Abstract:** For a very long time, unsupervised learning for anomaly detection has been at the heart of image processing research and a stepping stone for high performance industrial automation process. With the emergence of CNN, several methods have been proposed such as Autoencoders, GAN, deep feature extraction, etc. In this paper, we propose a new method based on the promising concept of knowledge distillation which consists of training a network (the student) on normal samples while considering the output of a larger pretrained network (the teacher). The main contributions of this paper are twofold: First, a reduced student architecture with optimal layer selection is proposed, then a new Student-Teacher architecture with network bias reduction combining two teachers is proposed in order to jointly enhance the performance of anomaly detection and its localization accuracy. The proposed texture anomaly detector has an outstanding capability to detect defects in any texture and a fast inference time compared to the SOTA methods. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** AvatarBooth: High-Quality and Customizable 3D Human Avatar Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09864  
**Abstract:** We introduce AvatarBooth, a novel method for generating high-quality 3D avatars using text prompts or specific images. Unlike previous approaches that can only synthesize avatars based on simple text descriptions, our method enables the creation of personalized avatars from casually captured face or body images, while still supporting text-based model generation and editing. Our key contribution is the precise avatar generation control by using dual fine-tuned diffusion models separately for the human face and body. This enables us to capture intricate details of facial appearance, clothing, and accessories, resulting in highly realistic avatar generations. Furthermore, we introduce pose-consistent constraint to the optimization process to enhance the multi-view consistency of synthesized head images from the diffusion model and thus eliminate interference from uncontrolled human poses. In addition, we present a multi-resolution rendering strategy that facilitates coarse-to-fine supervision of 3D avatar generation, thereby enhancing the performance of the proposed system. The resulting avatar model can be further edited using additional text descriptions and driven by motion sequences. Experiments show that AvatarBooth outperforms previous text-to-3D methods in terms of rendering and geometric quality from either text prompts or specific images. Please check our project website at https://zeng-yifei.github.io/avatarbooth_page/. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Energy-Based Cross Attention for Bayesian Context Update in  Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09869  
**Abstract:** Despite the remarkable performance of text-to-image diffusion models in image generation tasks, recent studies have raised the issue that generated images sometimes cannot capture the intended semantic contents of the text prompts, which phenomenon is often called semantic misalignment. To address this, here we present a novel energy-based model (EBM) framework. Specifically, we first formulate EBMs of latent image representations and text embeddings in each cross-attention layer of the denoising autoencoder. Then, we obtain the gradient of the log posterior of context vectors, which can be updated and transferred to the subsequent cross-attention layer, thereby implicitly minimizing a nested hierarchy of energy functions. Our latent EBMs further allow zero-shot compositional generation as a linear combination of cross-attention outputs from different contexts. Using extensive experiments, we demonstrate that the proposed method is highly effective in handling various image generation tasks, including multi-concept generation, text-guided image inpainting, and real and synthetic image editing. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Revealing the impact of social circumstances on the selection of cancer  therapy through natural language processing of social work notes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09877  
**Abstract:** We aimed to investigate the impact of social circumstances on cancer therapy selection using natural language processing to derive insights from social worker documentation. We developed and employed a Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) based approach, using a hierarchical multi-step BERT model (BERT-MS) to predict the prescription of targeted cancer therapy to patients based solely on documentation by clinical social workers. Our corpus included free-text clinical social work notes, combined with medication prescription information, for all patients treated for breast cancer. We conducted a feature importance analysis to pinpoint the specific social circumstances that impact cancer therapy selection. Using only social work notes, we consistently predicted the administration of targeted therapies, suggesting systematic differences in treatment selection exist due to non-clinical factors. The UCSF-BERT model, pretrained on clinical text at UCSF, outperformed other publicly available language models with an AUROC of 0.675 and a Macro F1 score of 0.599. The UCSF BERT-MS model, capable of leveraging multiple pieces of notes, surpassed the UCSF-BERT model in both AUROC and Macro-F1. Our feature importance analysis identified several clinically intuitive social determinants of health (SDOH) that potentially contribute to disparities in treatment. Our findings indicate that significant disparities exist among breast cancer patients receiving different types of therapies based on social determinants of health. Social work reports play a crucial role in understanding these disparities in clinical decision-making. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Demystifying GPT Self-Repair for Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09896  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable aptitude in code generation but still struggle on challenging programming tasks. Self-repair -- in which the model debugs and fixes mistakes in its own code -- has recently become a popular way to boost performance in these settings. However, only very limited studies on how and when self-repair works effectively exist in the literature, and one might wonder to what extent a model is really capable of providing accurate feedback on why the code is wrong when that code was generated by the same model. In this paper, we analyze GPT-3.5 and GPT-4's ability to perform self-repair on APPS, a challenging dataset consisting of diverse coding challenges. To do so, we first establish a new evaluation strategy dubbed pass@t that measures the pass rate of the tasks against the total number of tokens sampled from the model, enabling a fair comparison to purely sampling-based approaches. With this evaluation strategy, we find that the effectiveness of self-repair is only seen in GPT-4. We also observe that self-repair is bottlenecked by the feedback stage; using GPT-4 to give feedback on the programs generated by GPT-3.5 and using expert human programmers to give feedback on the programs generated by GPT-4, we unlock significant performance gains. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Evaluating the Efficacy of ChatGPT-4 in Providing Scientific References  across Diverse Disciplines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09914  
**Abstract:** This work conducts a comprehensive exploration into the proficiency of OpenAI's ChatGPT-4 in sourcing scientific references within an array of research disciplines. Our in-depth analysis encompasses a wide scope of fields including Computer Science (CS), Mechanical Engineering (ME), Electrical Engineering (EE), Biomedical Engineering (BME), and Medicine, as well as their more specialized sub-domains. Our empirical findings indicate a significant variance in ChatGPT-4's performance across these disciplines. Notably, the validity rate of suggested articles in CS, BME, and Medicine surpasses 65%, whereas in the realms of ME and EE, the model fails to verify any article as valid. Further, in the context of retrieving articles pertinent to niche research topics, ChatGPT-4 tends to yield references that align with the broader thematic areas as opposed to the narrowly defined topics of interest. This observed disparity underscores the pronounced variability in accuracy across diverse research fields, indicating the potential requirement for model refinement to enhance its functionality in academic research. Our investigation offers valuable insights into the current capacities and limitations of AI-powered tools in scholarly research, thereby emphasizing the indispensable role of human oversight and rigorous validation in leveraging such models for academic pursuits. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Query-Free Evasion Attacks Against Machine Learning-Based Malware  Detectors with Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09925  
**Abstract:** Malware detectors based on machine learning (ML) have been shown to be susceptible to adversarial malware examples. However, current methods to generate adversarial malware examples still have their limits. They either rely on detailed model information (gradient-based attacks), or on detailed outputs of the model - such as class probabilities (score-based attacks), neither of which are available in real-world scenarios. Alternatively, adversarial examples might be crafted using only the label assigned by the detector (label-based attack) to train a substitute network or an agent using reinforcement learning. Nonetheless, label-based attacks might require querying a black-box system from a small number to thousands of times, depending on the approach, which might not be feasible against malware detectors. This work presents a novel query-free approach to craft adversarial malware examples to evade ML-based malware detectors. To this end, we have devised a GAN-based framework to generate adversarial malware examples that look similar to benign executables in the feature space. To demonstrate the suitability of our approach we have applied the GAN-based attack to three common types of features usually employed by static ML-based malware detectors: (1) Byte histogram features, (2) API-based features, and (3) String-based features. Results show that our model-agnostic approach performs on par with MalGAN, while generating more realistic adversarial malware examples without requiring any query to the malware detectors. Furthermore, we have tested the generated adversarial examples against state-of-the-art multimodal and deep learning malware detectors, showing a decrease in detection performance, as well as a decrease in the average number of detections by the anti-malware engines in VirusTotal. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Friend or Foe? Exploring the Implications of Large Language Models on  the Science System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09928  
**Abstract:** The advent of ChatGPT by OpenAI has prompted extensive discourse on its potential implications for science and higher education. While the impact on education has been a primary focus, there is limited empirical research on the effects of large language models (LLMs) and LLM-based chatbots on science and scientific practice. To investigate this further, we conducted a Delphi study involving 72 experts specialising in research and AI. The study focused on applications and limitations of LLMs, their effects on the science system, ethical and legal considerations, and the required competencies for their effective use. Our findings highlight the transformative potential of LLMs in science, particularly in administrative, creative, and analytical tasks. However, risks related to bias, misinformation, and quality assurance need to be addressed through proactive regulation and science education. This research contributes to informed discussions on the impact of generative AI in science and helps identify areas for future action. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Drag-guided diffusion models for vehicle image generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09935  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models trained at web-scale have revolutionized image generation. The application of these tools to engineering design is an intriguing possibility, but is currently limited by their inability to parse and enforce concrete engineering constraints. In this paper, we take a step towards this goal by proposing physics-based guidance, which enables optimization of a performance metric (as predicted by a surrogate model) during the generation process. As a proof-of-concept, we add drag guidance to Stable Diffusion, which allows this tool to generate images of novel vehicles while simultaneously minimizing their predicted drag coefficients. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Towards Better Certified Segmentation via Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09949  
**Abstract:** The robustness of image segmentation has been an important research topic in the past few years as segmentation models have reached production-level accuracy. However, like classification models, segmentation models can be vulnerable to adversarial perturbations, which hinders their use in critical-decision systems like healthcare or autonomous driving. Recently, randomized smoothing has been proposed to certify segmentation predictions by adding Gaussian noise to the input to obtain theoretical guarantees. However, this method exhibits a trade-off between the amount of added noise and the level of certification achieved. In this paper, we address the problem of certifying segmentation prediction using a combination of randomized smoothing and diffusion models. Our experiments show that combining randomized smoothing and diffusion models significantly improves certified robustness, with results indicating a mean improvement of 21 points in accuracy compared to previous state-of-the-art methods on Pascal-Context and Cityscapes public datasets. Our method is independent of the selected segmentation model and does not need any additional specialized training procedure. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Evaluating Superhuman Models with Consistency Checks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09983  
**Abstract:** If machine learning models were to achieve superhuman abilities at various reasoning or decision-making tasks, how would we go about evaluating such models, given that humans would necessarily be poor proxies for ground truth? In this paper, we propose a framework for evaluating superhuman models via consistency checks. Our premise is that while the correctness of superhuman decisions may be impossible to evaluate, we can still surface mistakes if the model's decisions fail to satisfy certain logical, human-interpretable rules. We instantiate our framework on three tasks where correctness of decisions is hard to evaluate due to either superhuman model abilities, or to otherwise missing ground truth: evaluating chess positions, forecasting future events, and making legal judgments. We show that regardless of a model's (possibly superhuman) performance on these tasks, we can discover logical inconsistencies in decision making. For example: a chess engine assigning opposing valuations to semantically identical boards; GPT-4 forecasting that sports records will evolve non-monotonically over time; or an AI judge assigning bail to a defendant only after we add a felony to their criminal record. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Group Orthogonalization Regularization For Vision Models Adaptation and  Robustness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.10001  
**Abstract:** As neural networks become deeper, the redundancy within their parameters increases. This phenomenon has led to several methods that attempt to reduce the correlation between convolutional filters. We propose a computationally efficient regularization technique that encourages orthonormality between groups of filters within the same layer. Our experiments show that when incorporated into recent adaptation methods for diffusion models and vision transformers (ViTs), this regularization improves performance on downstream tasks. We further show improved robustness when group orthogonality is enforced during adversarial training. Our code is available at https://github.com/YoavKurtz/GOR. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Unsupervised Learning of Style-Aware Facial Animation from Real Acting  Performances  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.10006  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel approach for text/speech-driven animation of a photo-realistic head model based on blend-shape geometry, dynamic textures, and neural rendering. Training a VAE for geometry and texture yields a parametric model for accurate capturing and realistic synthesis of facial expressions from a latent feature vector. Our animation method is based on a conditional CNN that transforms text or speech into a sequence of animation parameters. In contrast to previous approaches, our animation model learns disentangling/synthesizing different acting-styles in an unsupervised manner, requiring only phonetic labels that describe the content of training sequences. For realistic real-time rendering, we train a U-Net that refines rasterization-based renderings by computing improved pixel colors and a foreground matte. We compare our framework qualitatively/quantitatively against recent methods for head modeling as well as facial animation and evaluate the perceived rendering/animation quality in a user-study, which indicates large improvements compared to state-of-the-art approaches 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Robot Learning with Sensorimotor Pre-training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.10007  
**Abstract:** We present a self-supervised sensorimotor pre-training approach for robotics. Our model, called RPT, is a Transformer that operates on sequences of sensorimotor tokens. Given a sequence of camera images, proprioceptive robot states, and past actions, we encode the interleaved sequence into tokens, mask out a random subset, and train a model to predict the masked-out content. We hypothesize that if the robot can predict the missing content it has acquired a good model of the physical world that can enable it to act. RPT is designed to operate on latent visual representations which makes prediction tractable, enables scaling to 10x larger models, and 10 Hz inference on a real robot. To evaluate our approach, we collect a dataset of 20,000 real-world trajectories over 9 months using a combination of motion planning and model-based grasping algorithms. We find that pre-training on this data consistently outperforms training from scratch, leads to 2x improvements in the block stacking task, and has favorable scaling properties. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** CLIP2Protect: Protecting Facial Privacy using Text-Guided Makeup via  Adversarial Latent Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.10008  
**Abstract:** The success of deep learning based face recognition systems has given rise to serious privacy concerns due to their ability to enable unauthorized tracking of users in the digital world. Existing methods for enhancing privacy fail to generate naturalistic images that can protect facial privacy without compromising user experience. We propose a novel two-step approach for facial privacy protection that relies on finding adversarial latent codes in the low-dimensional manifold of a pretrained generative model. The first step inverts the given face image into the latent space and finetunes the generative model to achieve an accurate reconstruction of the given image from its latent code. This step produces a good initialization, aiding the generation of high-quality faces that resemble the given identity. Subsequently, user-defined makeup text prompts and identity-preserving regularization are used to guide the search for adversarial codes in the latent space. Extensive experiments demonstrate that faces generated by our approach have stronger black-box transferability with an absolute gain of 12.06% over the state-of-the-art facial privacy protection approach under the face verification task. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach for commercial face recognition systems. Our code is available at https://github.com/fahadshamshad/Clip2Protect. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** A Post-Quantum Associative Memory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2201.12305  
**Abstract:** Associative memories are devices storing information that can be fully retrieved given partial disclosure of it. We examine a toy model of associative memory and the ultimate limitations it is subjected to within the framework of general probabilistic theories (GPTs), which represent the most general class of physical theories satisfying some basic operational axioms. We ask ourselves how large the dimension of a GPT should be so that it can accommodate $2^m$ states with the property that any $N$ of them are perfectly distinguishable. Call $d(N,m)$ the minimal such dimension. Invoking an old result by Danzer and Gr\"unbaum, we prove that $d(2,m)=m+1$, to be compared with $O(2^m)$ when the GPT is required to be either classical or quantum. This yields an example of a task where GPTs outperform both classical and quantum theory exponentially. More generally, we resolve the case of fixed $N$ and asymptotically large $m$, proving that $d(N,m) \leq m^{1+o_N(1)}$ (as $m\to\infty$) for every $N\geq 2$, which yields again an exponential improvement over classical and quantum theories. Finally, we develop a numerical approach to the general problem of finding the largest $N$-wise mutually distinguishable set for a given GPT, which can be seen as an instance of the maximum clique problem on $N$-regular hypergraphs. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Diff-TTSG: Denoising probabilistic integrated speech and gesture  synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09417  
**Abstract:** With read-aloud speech synthesis achieving high naturalness scores, there is a growing research interest in synthesising spontaneous speech. However, human spontaneous face-to-face conversation has both spoken and non-verbal aspects (here, co-speech gestures). Only recently has research begun to explore the benefits of jointly synthesising these two modalities in a single system. The previous state of the art used non-probabilistic methods, which fail to capture the variability of human speech and motion, and risk producing oversmoothing artefacts and sub-optimal synthesis quality. We present the first diffusion-based probabilistic model, called Diff-TTSG, that jointly learns to synthesise speech and gestures together. Our method can be trained on small datasets from scratch. Furthermore, we describe a set of careful uni- and multi-modal subjective tests for evaluating integrated speech and gesture synthesis systems, and use them to validate our proposed approach. For synthesised examples please see https://shivammehta25.github.io/Diff-TTSG 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Deep learning techniques for blind image super-resolution: A high-scale  multi-domain perspective evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09426  
**Abstract:** Despite several solutions and experiments have been conducted recently addressing image super-resolution (SR), boosted by deep learning (DL) techniques, they do not usually design evaluations with high scaling factors, capping it at 2x or 4x. Moreover, the datasets are generally benchmarks which do not truly encompass significant diversity of domains to proper evaluate the techniques. It is also interesting to remark that blind SR is attractive for real-world scenarios since it is based on the idea that the degradation process is unknown, and hence techniques in this context rely basically on low-resolution (LR) images. In this article, we present a high-scale (8x) controlled experiment which evaluates five recent DL techniques tailored for blind image SR: Adaptive Pseudo Augmentation (APA), Blind Image SR with Spatially Variant Degradations (BlindSR), Deep Alternating Network (DAN), FastGAN, and Mixture of Experts Super-Resolution (MoESR). We consider 14 small datasets from five different broader domains which are: aerial, fauna, flora, medical, and satellite. Another distinctive characteristic of our evaluation is that some of the DL approaches were designed for single-image SR but others not. Two no-reference metrics were selected, being the classical natural image quality evaluator (NIQE) and the recent transformer-based multi-dimension attention network for no-reference image quality assessment (MANIQA) score, to assess the techniques. Overall, MoESR can be regarded as the best solution although the perceptual quality of the created HR images of all the techniques still needs to improve. Supporting code: https://github.com/vsantjr/DL_BlindSR. Datasets: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/valdivinosantiago/dl-blindsr-datasets. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Second order quantitative bounds for unadjusted generalized Hamiltonian  Monte Carlo  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09513  
**Abstract:** This paper provides a convergence analysis for generalized Hamiltonian Monte Carlo samplers, a family of Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods based on leapfrog integration of Hamiltonian dynamics and kinetic Langevin diffusion, that encompasses the unadjusted Hamiltonian Monte Carlo method. Assuming that the target distribution $\pi$ satisfies a log-Sobolev inequality and mild conditions on the corresponding potential function, we establish quantitative bounds on the relative entropy of the iterates defined by the algorithm, with respect to $\pi$. Our approach is based on a perturbative and discrete version of the modified entropy method developed to establish hypocoercivity for the continuous-time kinetic Langevin process. As a corollary of our main result, we are able to derive complexity bounds for the class of algorithms at hand. In particular, we show that the total number of iterations to achieve a target accuracy $\varepsilon >0$ is of order $d/\varepsilon^{1/4}$, where $d$ is the dimension of the problem. This result can be further improved in the case of weakly interacting mean field potentials, for which we find a total number of iterations of order $(d/\varepsilon)^{1/4}$. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Fusing Structural and Functional Connectivities using Disentangled VAE  for Detecting MCI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09629  
**Abstract:** Brain network analysis is a useful approach to studying human brain disorders because it can distinguish patients from healthy people by detecting abnormal connections. Due to the complementary information from multiple modal neuroimages, multimodal fusion technology has a lot of potential for improving prediction performance. However, effective fusion of multimodal medical images to achieve complementarity is still a challenging problem. In this paper, a novel hierarchical structural-functional connectivity fusing (HSCF) model is proposed to construct brain structural-functional connectivity matrices and predict abnormal brain connections based on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Specifically, the prior knowledge is incorporated into the separators for disentangling each modality of information by the graph convolutional networks (GCN). And a disentangled cosine distance loss is devised to ensure the disentanglement's effectiveness. Moreover, the hierarchical representation fusion module is designed to effectively maximize the combination of relevant and effective features between modalities, which makes the generated structural-functional connectivity more robust and discriminative in the cognitive disease analysis. Results from a wide range of tests performed on the public Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database show that the proposed model performs better than competing approaches in terms of classification evaluation. In general, the proposed HSCF model is a promising model for generating brain structural-functional connectivities and identifying abnormal brain connections as cognitive disease progresses. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Vacant Holes for Unsupervised Detection of the Outliers in Compact  Latent Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09646  
**Abstract:** Detection of the outliers is pivotal for any machine learning model deployed and operated in real-world. It is essential for the Deep Neural Networks that were shown to be overconfident with such inputs. Moreover, even deep generative models that allow estimation of the probability density of the input fail in achieving this task. In this work, we concentrate on the specific type of these models: Variational Autoencoders (VAEs). First, we unveil a significant theoretical flaw in the assumption of the classical VAE model. Second, we enforce an accommodating topological property to the image of the deep neural mapping to the latent space: compactness to alleviate the flaw and obtain the means to provably bound the image within the determined limits by squeezing both inliers and outliers together. We enforce compactness using two approaches: (i) Alexandroff extension and (ii) fixed Lipschitz continuity constant on the mapping of the encoder of the VAEs. Finally and most importantly, we discover that the anomalous inputs predominantly tend to land on the vacant latent holes within the compact space, enabling their successful identification. For that reason, we introduce a specifically devised score for hole detection and evaluate the solution against several baseline benchmarks achieving promising results. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Trained Transformers Learn Linear Models In-Context  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09927  
**Abstract:** Attention-based neural networks such as transformers have demonstrated a remarkable ability to exhibit in-context learning (ICL): Given a short prompt sequence of tokens from an unseen task, they can formulate relevant per-token and next-token predictions without any parameter updates. By embedding a sequence of labeled training data and unlabeled test data as a prompt, this allows for transformers to behave like supervised learning algorithms. Indeed, recent work has shown that when training transformer architectures over random instances of linear regression problems, these models' predictions mimic those of ordinary least squares. 

