**ID:** 1  
**Title:** PreQuant: A Task-agnostic Quantization Approach for Pre-trained Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00014  
**Abstract:** While transformer-based pre-trained language models (PLMs) have dominated a number of NLP applications, these models are heavy to deploy and expensive to use. Therefore, effectively compressing large-scale PLMs becomes an increasingly important problem. Quantization, which represents high-precision tensors with low-bit fix-point format, is a viable solution. However, most existing quantization methods are task-specific, requiring customized training and quantization with a large number of trainable parameters on each individual task. Inspired by the observation that the over-parameterization nature of PLMs makes it possible to freeze most of the parameters during the fine-tuning stage, in this work, we propose a novel ``quantize before fine-tuning'' framework, PreQuant, that differs from both quantization-aware training and post-training quantization. PreQuant is compatible with various quantization strategies, with outlier-aware parameter-efficient fine-tuning incorporated to correct the induced quantization error. We demonstrate the effectiveness of PreQuant on the GLUE benchmark using BERT, RoBERTa, and T5. We also provide an empirical investigation into the workflow of PreQuant, which sheds light on its efficacy. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** GPT4GEO: How a Language Model Sees the World's Geography  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00020  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities across a broad range of tasks involving question answering and the generation of coherent text and code. Comprehensively understanding the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs is beneficial for safety, downstream applications and improving performance. In this work, we investigate the degree to which GPT-4 has acquired factual geographic knowledge and is capable of using this knowledge for interpretative reasoning, which is especially important for applications that involve geographic data, such as geospatial analysis, supply chain management, and disaster response. To this end, we design and conduct a series of diverse experiments, starting from factual tasks such as location, distance and elevation estimation to more complex questions such as generating country outlines and travel networks, route finding under constraints and supply chain analysis. We provide a broad characterisation of what GPT-4 (without plugins or Internet access) knows about the world, highlighting both potentially surprising capabilities but also limitations. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Explaining Hate Speech Classification with Model Agnostic Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00021  
**Abstract:** There have been remarkable breakthroughs in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, notably in the areas of Natural Language Processing and Deep Learning. Additionally, hate speech detection in dialogues has been gaining popularity among Natural Language Processing researchers with the increased use of social media. However, as evidenced by the recent trends, the need for the dimensions of explainability and interpretability in AI models has been deeply realised. Taking note of the factors above, the research goal of this paper is to bridge the gap between hate speech prediction and the explanations generated by the system to support its decision. This has been achieved by first predicting the classification of a text and then providing a posthoc, model agnostic and surrogate interpretability approach for explainability and to prevent model bias. The bidirectional transformer model BERT has been used for prediction because of its state of the art efficiency over other Machine Learning models. The model agnostic algorithm LIME generates explanations for the output of a trained classifier and predicts the features that influence the model decision. The predictions generated from the model were evaluated manually, and after thorough evaluation, we observed that the model performs efficiently in predicting and explaining its prediction. Lastly, we suggest further directions for the expansion of the provided research work. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Self-Verification Improves Few-Shot Clinical Information Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00024  
**Abstract:** Extracting patient information from unstructured text is a critical task in health decision-support and clinical research. Large language models (LLMs) have shown the potential to accelerate clinical curation via few-shot in-context learning, in contrast to supervised learning which requires much more costly human annotations. However, despite drastic advances in modern LLMs such as GPT-4, they still struggle with issues regarding accuracy and interpretability, especially in mission-critical domains such as health. Here, we explore a general mitigation framework using self-verification, which leverages the LLM to provide provenance for its own extraction and check its own outputs. This is made possible by the asymmetry between verification and generation, where the latter is often much easier than the former. Experimental results show that our method consistently improves accuracy for various LLMs in standard clinical information extraction tasks. Additionally, self-verification yields interpretations in the form of a short text span corresponding to each output, which makes it very efficient for human experts to audit the results, paving the way towards trustworthy extraction of clinical information in resource-constrained scenarios. To facilitate future research in this direction, we release our code and prompts. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** CodeTF: One-stop Transformer Library for State-of-the-art Code LLM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00029  
**Abstract:** Code intelligence plays a key role in transforming modern software engineering. Recently, deep learning-based models, especially Transformer-based large language models (LLMs), have demonstrated remarkable potential in tackling these tasks by leveraging massive open-source code data and programming language features. However, the development and deployment of such models often require expertise in both machine learning and software engineering, creating a barrier for the model adoption. In this paper, we present CodeTF, an open-source Transformer-based library for state-of-the-art Code LLMs and code intelligence. Following the principles of modular design and extensible framework, we design CodeTF with a unified interface to enable rapid access and development across different types of models, datasets and tasks. Our library supports a collection of pretrained Code LLM models and popular code benchmarks, including a standardized interface to train and serve code LLMs efficiently, and data features such as language-specific parsers and utility functions for extracting code attributes. In this paper, we describe the design principles, the architecture, key modules and components, and compare with other related library tools. Finally, we hope CodeTF is able to bridge the gap between machine learning/generative AI and software engineering, providing a comprehensive open-source solution for developers, researchers, and practitioners. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** AI Imagery and the Overton Window  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00080  
**Abstract:** AI-based text-to-image generation has undergone a significant leap in the production of visually comprehensive and aesthetic imagery over the past year, to the point where differentiating between a man-made piece of art and an AI-generated image is becoming more difficult. Generative Models such as Stable Diffusion, Midjourney and others are expected to affect several major industries in technological and ethical aspects. Striking the balance between raising human standard of life and work vs exploiting one group of people to enrich another is a complex and crucial part of the discussion. Due to the rapid growth of this technology, the way in which its models operate, and gray area legalities, visual and artistic domains - including the video game industry, are at risk of being taken over from creators by AI infrastructure owners. This paper is a literature review examining the concerns facing both AI developers and users today, including identity theft, data laundering and more. It discusses legalization challenges and ethical concerns, and concludes with how AI generative models can be tremendously useful in streamlining the process of visual creativity in both static and interactive media given proper regulation. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** MERT: Acoustic Music Understanding Model with Large-Scale  Self-supervised Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00107  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised learning (SSL) has recently emerged as a promising paradigm for training generalisable models on large-scale data in the fields of vision, text, and speech. Although SSL has been proven effective in speech and audio, its application to music audio has yet to be thoroughly explored. This is primarily due to the distinctive challenges associated with modelling musical knowledge, particularly its tonal and pitched characteristics of music. To address this research gap, we propose an acoustic Music undERstanding model with large-scale self-supervised Training (MERT), which incorporates teacher models to provide pseudo labels in the masked language modelling (MLM) style acoustic pre-training. In our exploration, we identified a superior combination of teacher models, which outperforms conventional speech and audio approaches in terms of performance. This combination includes an acoustic teacher based on Residual Vector Quantization - Variational AutoEncoder (RVQ-VAE) and a musical teacher based on the Constant-Q Transform (CQT). These teachers effectively guide our student model, a BERT-style transformer encoder, to better model music audio. In addition, we introduce an in-batch noise mixture augmentation to enhance the representation robustness. Furthermore, we explore a wide range of settings to overcome the instability in acoustic language model pre-training, which allows our designed paradigm to scale from 95M to 330M parameters. Experimental results indicate that our model can generalise and perform well on 14 music understanding tasks and attains state-of-the-art (SOTA) overall scores. The code and models are online: https://github.com/yizhilll/MERT. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** MuseCoco: Generating Symbolic Music from Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00110  
**Abstract:** Generating music from text descriptions is a user-friendly mode since the text is a relatively easy interface for user engagement. While some approaches utilize texts to control music audio generation, editing musical elements in generated audio is challenging for users. In contrast, symbolic music offers ease of editing, making it more accessible for users to manipulate specific musical elements. In this paper, we propose MuseCoco, which generates symbolic music from text descriptions with musical attributes as the bridge to break down the task into text-to-attribute understanding and attribute-to-music generation stages. MuseCoCo stands for Music Composition Copilot that empowers musicians to generate music directly from given text descriptions, offering a significant improvement in efficiency compared to creating music entirely from scratch. The system has two main advantages: Firstly, it is data efficient. In the attribute-to-music generation stage, the attributes can be directly extracted from music sequences, making the model training self-supervised. In the text-to-attribute understanding stage, the text is synthesized and refined by ChatGPT based on the defined attribute templates. Secondly, the system can achieve precise control with specific attributes in text descriptions and offers multiple control options through attribute-conditioned or text-conditioned approaches. MuseCoco outperforms baseline systems in terms of musicality, controllability, and overall score by at least 1.27, 1.08, and 1.32 respectively. Besides, there is a notable enhancement of about 20% in objective control accuracy. In addition, we have developed a robust large-scale model with 1.2 billion parameters, showcasing exceptional controllability and musicality. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** SafeDiffuser: Safe Planning with Diffusion Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00148  
**Abstract:** Diffusion model-based approaches have shown promise in data-driven planning, but there are no safety guarantees, thus making it hard to be applied for safety-critical applications. To address these challenges, we propose a new method, called SafeDiffuser, to ensure diffusion probabilistic models satisfy specifications by using a class of control barrier functions. The key idea of our approach is to embed the proposed finite-time diffusion invariance into the denoising diffusion procedure, which enables trustworthy diffusion data generation. Moreover, we demonstrate that our finite-time diffusion invariance method through generative models not only maintains generalization performance but also creates robustness in safe data generation. We test our method on a series of safe planning tasks, including maze path generation, legged robot locomotion, and 3D space manipulation, with results showing the advantages of robustness and guarantees over vanilla diffusion models. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** eXtended Hybridizable Discontinous Galerkin (X-HDG) Method for Linear  Convection-Diffusion Equations on Unfitted Domains  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00156  
**Abstract:** In this work, we propose a novel strategy for the numerical solution of linear convection diffusion equation (CDE) over unfitted domains. In the proposed numerical scheme, strategies from high order Hybridized Discontinuous Galerkin method and eXtended Finite Element method is combined with the level set definition of the boundaries. The proposed scheme and hence, is named as eXtended Hybridizable Discontinuous Galerkin (XHDG) method. In this regard, the Hybridizable Discontinuous Galerkin (HDG) method is eXtended to the unfitted domains; i.e, the computational mesh does not need to fit to the domain boundary; instead, the boundary is defined by a level set function and cuts through the background mesh arbitrarily. The original unknown structure of HDG and its hybrid nature ensuring the local conservation of fluxes is kept, while developing a modified bilinear form for the elements cut by the boundary. At every cut element, an auxiliary nodal trace variable on the boundary is introduced, which is eliminated afterwards while imposing the boundary conditions. Both stationary and time dependent CDEs are studied over a range of flow regimes from diffusion to convection dominated; using high order $(p \leq 4)$ XHDG through benchmark numerical examples over arbitrary unfitted domains. Results proved that XHDG inherits optimal $(p + 1)$ and super $(p + 2)$ convergence properties of HDG while removing the fitting mesh restriction. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Automated Annotation with Generative AI Requires Validation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00176  
**Abstract:** Generative large language models (LLMs) can be a powerful tool for augmenting text annotation procedures, but their performance varies across annotation tasks due to prompt quality, text data idiosyncrasies, and conceptual difficulty. Because these challenges will persist even as LLM technology improves, we argue that any automated annotation process using an LLM must validate the LLM's performance against labels generated by humans. To this end, we outline a workflow to harness the annotation potential of LLMs in a principled, efficient way. Using GPT-4, we validate this approach by replicating 27 annotation tasks across 11 datasets from recent social science articles in high-impact journals. We find that LLM performance for text annotation is promising but highly contingent on both the dataset and the type of annotation task, which reinforces the necessity to validate on a task-by-task basis. We make available easy-to-use software designed to implement our workflow and streamline the deployment of LLMs for automated annotation. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Contextualizing Problems to Student Interests at Scale in Intelligent  Tutoring System Using Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00190  
**Abstract:** Contextualizing problems to align with student interests can significantly improve learning outcomes. However, this task often presents scalability challenges due to resource and time constraints. Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 offer potential solutions to these issues. This study explores the ability of GPT-4 in the contextualization of problems within CTAT, an intelligent tutoring system, aiming to increase student engagement and enhance learning outcomes. Through iterative prompt engineering, we achieved meaningful contextualization that preserved the difficulty and original intent of the problem, thereby not altering values or overcomplicating the questions. While our research highlights the potential of LLMs in educational settings, we acknowledge current limitations, particularly with geometry problems, and emphasize the need for ongoing evaluation and research. Future work includes systematic studies to measure the impact of this tool on students' learning outcomes and enhancements to handle a broader range of problems. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** FEED PETs: Further Experimentation and Expansion on the Disambiguation  of Potentially Euphemistic Terms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00217  
**Abstract:** Transformers have been shown to work well for the task of English euphemism disambiguation, in which a potentially euphemistic term (PET) is classified as euphemistic or non-euphemistic in a particular context. In this study, we expand on the task in two ways. First, we annotate PETs for vagueness, a linguistic property associated with euphemisms, and find that transformers are generally better at classifying vague PETs, suggesting linguistic differences in the data that impact performance. Second, we present novel euphemism corpora in three different languages: Yoruba, Spanish, and Mandarin Chinese. We perform euphemism disambiguation experiments in each language using multilingual transformer models mBERT and XLM-RoBERTa, establishing preliminary results from which to launch future work. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Diffusion Brush: A Latent Diffusion Model-based Editing Tool for  AI-generated Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00219  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image generative models have made remarkable advancements in generating high-quality images. However, generated images often contain undesirable artifacts or other errors due to model limitations. Existing techniques to fine-tune generated images are time-consuming (manual editing), produce poorly-integrated results (inpainting), or result in unexpected changes across the entire image (variation selection and prompt fine-tuning). In this work, we present Diffusion Brush, a Latent Diffusion Model-based (LDM) tool to efficiently fine-tune desired regions within an AI-synthesized image. Our method introduces new random noise patterns at targeted regions during the reverse diffusion process, enabling the model to efficiently make changes to the specified regions while preserving the original context for the rest of the image. We evaluate our method's usability and effectiveness through a user study with artists, comparing our technique against other state-of-the-art image inpainting techniques and editing software for fine-tuning AI-generated imagery. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** From Human-Centered to Social-Centered Artificial Intelligence:  Assessing ChatGPT's Impact through Disruptive Events  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00227  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) and dialogue agents have existed for years, but the release of recent GPT models has been a watershed moment for artificial intelligence (AI) research and society at large. Immediately recognized for its generative capabilities and versatility, ChatGPT's impressive proficiency across technical and creative domains led to its widespread adoption. While society grapples with the emerging cultural impacts of ChatGPT, critiques of ChatGPT's impact within the machine learning community have coalesced around its performance or other conventional Responsible AI evaluations relating to bias, toxicity, and 'hallucination.' We argue that these latter critiques draw heavily on a particular conceptualization of the 'human-centered' framework, which tends to cast atomized individuals as the key recipients of both the benefits and detriments of technology. In this article, we direct attention to another dimension of LLMs and dialogue agents' impact: their effect on social groups, institutions, and accompanying norms and practices. By illustrating ChatGPT's social impact through three disruptive events, we challenge individualistic approaches in AI development and contribute to ongoing debates around the ethical and responsible implementation of AI systems. We hope this effort will call attention to more comprehensive and longitudinal evaluation tools and compel technologists to go beyond human-centered thinking and ground their efforts through social-centered AI. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Using Visual Cropping to Enhance Fine-Detail Question Answering of  BLIP-Family Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00228  
**Abstract:** Visual Question Answering is a challenging task, as it requires seamless interaction between perceptual, linguistic, and background knowledge systems. While the recent progress of visual and natural language models like BLIP has led to improved performance on this task, we lack understanding of the ability of such models to perform on different kinds of questions and reasoning types. As our initial analysis of BLIP-family models revealed difficulty with answering fine-detail questions, we investigate the following question: Can visual cropping be employed to improve the performance of state-of-the-art visual question answering models on fine-detail questions? Given the recent success of the BLIP-family models, we study a zero-shot and a fine-tuned BLIP model. We define three controlled subsets of the popular VQA-v2 benchmark to measure whether cropping can help model performance. Besides human cropping, we devise two automatic cropping strategies based on multi-modal embedding by CLIP and BLIP visual QA model gradients. Our experiments demonstrate that the performance of BLIP model variants can be significantly improved through human cropping, and automatic cropping methods can produce comparable benefits. A deeper dive into our findings indicates that the performance enhancement is more pronounced in zero-shot models than in fine-tuned models and more salient with smaller bounding boxes than larger ones. We perform case studies to connect quantitative differences with qualitative observations across question types and datasets. Finally, we see that the cropping enhancement is robust, as we gain an improvement of 4.59% (absolute) in the general VQA-random task by simply inputting a concatenation of the original and gradient-based cropped images. We make our code available to facilitate further innovation on visual cropping methods for question answering. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** A Universal Latent Fingerprint Enhancer Using Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00231  
**Abstract:** Forensic science heavily relies on analyzing latent fingerprints, which are crucial for criminal investigations. However, various challenges, such as background noise, overlapping prints, and contamination, make the identification process difficult. Moreover, limited access to real crime scene and laboratory-generated databases hinders the development of efficient recognition algorithms. This study aims to develop a fast method, which we call ULPrint, to enhance various latent fingerprint types, including those obtained from real crime scenes and laboratory-created samples, to boost fingerprint recognition system performance. In closed-set identification accuracy experiments, the enhanced image was able to improve the performance of the MSU-AFIS from 61.56\% to 75.19\% in the NIST SD27 database, from 67.63\% to 77.02\% in the MSP Latent database, and from 46.90\% to 52.12\% in the NIST SD302 database. Our contributions include (1) the development of a two-step latent fingerprint enhancement method that combines Ridge Segmentation with UNet and Mix Visual Transformer (MiT) SegFormer-B5 encoder architecture, (2) the implementation of multiple dilated convolutions in the UNet architecture to capture intricate, non-local patterns better and enhance ridge segmentation, and (3) the guided blending of the predicted ridge mask with the latent fingerprint. This novel approach, ULPrint, streamlines the enhancement process, addressing challenges across diverse latent fingerprint types to improve forensic investigations and criminal justice outcomes. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Bytes Are All You Need: Transformers Operating Directly On File Bytes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00238  
**Abstract:** Modern deep learning approaches usually transform inputs into a modality-specific form. For example, the most common deep learning approach to image classification involves decoding image file bytes into an RGB tensor which is passed into a neural network. Instead, we investigate performing classification directly on file bytes, without the need for decoding files at inference time. Using file bytes as model inputs enables the development of models which can operate on multiple input modalities. Our model, \emph{ByteFormer}, achieves an ImageNet Top-1 classification accuracy of $77.33\%$ when training and testing directly on TIFF file bytes using a transformer backbone with configuration similar to DeiT-Ti ($72.2\%$ accuracy when operating on RGB images). Without modifications or hyperparameter tuning, ByteFormer achieves $95.42\%$ classification accuracy when operating on WAV files from the Speech Commands v2 dataset (compared to state-of-the-art accuracy of $98.7\%$). Additionally, we demonstrate that ByteFormer has applications in privacy-preserving inference. ByteFormer is capable of performing inference on particular obfuscated input representations with no loss of accuracy. We also demonstrate ByteFormer's ability to perform inference with a hypothetical privacy-preserving camera which avoids forming full images by consistently masking $90\%$ of pixel channels, while still achieving $71.35\%$ accuracy on ImageNet. Our code will be made available at https://github.com/apple/ml-cvnets/tree/main/examples/byteformer. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Balancing Reconstruction and Editing Quality of GAN Inversion for Real  Image Editing with StyleGAN Prior Latent Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00241  
**Abstract:** The exploration of the latent space in StyleGANs and GAN inversion exemplify impressive real-world image editing, yet the trade-off between reconstruction quality and editing quality remains an open problem. In this study, we revisit StyleGANs' hyperspherical prior $\mathcal{Z}$ and $\mathcal{Z}^+$ and integrate them into seminal GAN inversion methods to improve editing quality. Besides faithful reconstruction, our extensions achieve sophisticated editing quality with the aid of the StyleGAN prior. We project the real images into the proposed space to obtain the inverted codes, by which we then move along $\mathcal{Z}^{+}$, enabling semantic editing without sacrificing image quality. Comprehensive experiments show that $\mathcal{Z}^{+}$ can replace the most commonly-used $\mathcal{W}$, $\mathcal{W}^{+}$, and $\mathcal{S}$ spaces while preserving reconstruction quality, resulting in reduced distortion of edited images. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** TransAct: Transformer-based Realtime User Action Model for  Recommendation at Pinterest  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00248  
**Abstract:** Sequential models that encode user activity for next action prediction have become a popular design choice for building web-scale personalized recommendation systems. Traditional methods of sequential recommendation either utilize end-to-end learning on realtime user actions, or learn user representations separately in an offline batch-generated manner. This paper (1) presents Pinterest's ranking architecture for Homefeed, our personalized recommendation product and the largest engagement surface; (2) proposes TransAct, a sequential model that extracts users' short-term preferences from their realtime activities; (3) describes our hybrid approach to ranking, which combines end-to-end sequential modeling via TransAct with batch-generated user embeddings. The hybrid approach allows us to combine the advantages of responsiveness from learning directly on realtime user activity with the cost-effectiveness of batch user representations learned over a longer time period. We describe the results of ablation studies, the challenges we faced during productionization, and the outcome of an online A/B experiment, which validates the effectiveness of our hybrid ranking model. We further demonstrate the effectiveness of TransAct on other surfaces such as contextual recommendations and search. Our model has been deployed to production in Homefeed, Related Pins, Notifications, and Search at Pinterest. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Accelerated Fingerprint Enhancement: A GPU-Optimized Mixed Architecture  Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00272  
**Abstract:** This document presents a preliminary approach to latent fingerprint enhancement, fundamentally designed around a mixed Unet architecture. It combines the capabilities of the Resnet-101 network and Unet encoder, aiming to form a potentially powerful composite. This combination, enhanced with attention mechanisms and forward skip connections, is intended to optimize the enhancement of ridge and minutiae features in fingerprints. One innovative element of this approach includes a novel Fingerprint Enhancement Gabor layer, specifically designed for GPU computations. This illustrates how modern computational resources might be harnessed to expedite enhancement. Given its potential functionality as either a CNN or Transformer layer, this Gabor layer could offer improved agility and processing speed to the system. However, it is important to note that this approach is still in the early stages of development and has not yet been fully validated through rigorous experiments. As such, it may require additional time and testing to establish its robustness and usability in the field of latent fingerprint enhancement. This includes improvements in processing speed, enhancement adaptability with distinct latent fingerprint types, and full validation in experimental approaches such as open-set (identification 1:N) and open-set validation, fingerprint quality evaluation, among others. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Training-free Neural Architecture Search for RNNs and Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00288  
**Abstract:** Neural architecture search (NAS) has allowed for the automatic creation of new and effective neural network architectures, offering an alternative to the laborious process of manually designing complex architectures. However, traditional NAS algorithms are slow and require immense amounts of computing power. Recent research has investigated training-free NAS metrics for image classification architectures, drastically speeding up search algorithms. In this paper, we investigate training-free NAS metrics for recurrent neural network (RNN) and BERT-based transformer architectures, targeted towards language modeling tasks. First, we develop a new training-free metric, named hidden covariance, that predicts the trained performance of an RNN architecture and significantly outperforms existing training-free metrics. We experimentally evaluate the effectiveness of the hidden covariance metric on the NAS-Bench-NLP benchmark. Second, we find that the current search space paradigm for transformer architectures is not optimized for training-free neural architecture search. Instead, a simple qualitative analysis can effectively shrink the search space to the best performing architectures. This conclusion is based on our investigation of existing training-free metrics and new metrics developed from recent transformer pruning literature, evaluated on our own benchmark of trained BERT architectures. Ultimately, our analysis shows that the architecture search space and the training-free metric must be developed together in order to achieve effective results. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Sustainable AI Regulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00292  
**Abstract:** This paper suggests that AI regulation needs a shift from trustworthiness to sustainability. With the carbon footprint of large generative AI models like ChatGPT or GPT-4 adding urgency to this goal, the paper develops a roadmap to make AI, and technology more broadly, environmentally sustainable. It explores two key dimensions: legal instruments to make AI greener; and methods to render AI regulation more sustainable. Concerning the former, transparency mechanisms, such as the disclosure of the GHG footprint under Article 11 AI Act, could be a first step. However, given the well-known limitations of disclosure, regulation needs to go beyond transparency. Hence, I propose a mix of co-regulation strategies; sustainability by design; restrictions on training data; and consumption caps. This regulatory toolkit may then, in a second step, serve as a blueprint for other information technologies and infrastructures facing significant sustainability challenges due to their high GHG emissions, e.g.: blockchain; metaverse applications; and data centers. The second dimension consists in efforts to render AI regulation, and by implication the law itself, more sustainable. Certain rights we have come to take for granted, such as the right to erasure (Article 17 GDPR), may have to be limited due to sustainability considerations. For example, the subjective right to erasure, in some situations, has to be balanced against the collective interest in mitigating climate change. The paper formulates guidelines to strike this balance equitably, discusses specific use cases, and identifies doctrinal legal methods for incorporating such a "sustainability limitation" into existing (e.g., Art. 17(3) GDPR) and future law (e.g., AI Act). Ultimately, law, computer science and sustainability studies need to team up to effectively address the dual large-scale transformations of digitization and sustainability. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Transformers learn to implement preconditioned gradient descent for  in-context learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00297  
**Abstract:** Motivated by the striking ability of transformers for in-context learning, several works demonstrate that transformers can implement algorithms like gradient descent. By a careful construction of weights, these works show that multiple layers of transformers are expressive enough to simulate gradient descent iterations. Going beyond the question of expressivity, we ask: Can transformers learn to implement such algorithms by training over random problem instances? To our knowledge, we make the first theoretical progress toward this question via analysis of the loss landscape for linear transformers trained over random instances of linear regression. For a single attention layer, we prove the global minimum of the training objective implements a single iteration of preconditioned gradient descent. Notably, the preconditioning matrix not only adapts to the input distribution but also to the variance induced by data inadequacy. For a transformer with $k$ attention layers, we prove certain critical points of the training objective implement $k$ iterations of preconditioned gradient descent. Our results call for future theoretical studies on learning algorithms by training transformers. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Low-Light Image Enhancement with Wavelet-based Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00306  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have achieved promising results in image restoration tasks, yet suffer from time-consuming, excessive computational resource consumption, and unstable restoration. To address these issues, we propose a robust and efficient Diffusion-based Low-Light image enhancement approach, dubbed DiffLL. Specifically, we present a wavelet-based conditional diffusion model (WCDM) that leverages the generative power of diffusion models to produce results with satisfactory perceptual fidelity. Additionally, it also takes advantage of the strengths of wavelet transformation to greatly accelerate inference and reduce computational resource usage without sacrificing information. To avoid chaotic content and diversity, we perform both forward diffusion and reverse denoising in the training phase of WCDM, enabling the model to achieve stable denoising and reduce randomness during inference. Moreover, we further design a high-frequency restoration module (HFRM) that utilizes the vertical and horizontal details of the image to complement the diagonal information for better fine-grained restoration. Extensive experiments on publicly available real-world benchmarks demonstrate that our method outperforms the existing state-of-the-art methods both quantitatively and visually, and it achieves remarkable improvements in efficiency compared to previous diffusion-based methods. In addition, we empirically show that the application for low-light face detection also reveals the latent practical values of our method. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Addressing Negative Transfer in Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00354  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based generative models have achieved remarkable success in various domains. It trains a model on denoising tasks that encompass different noise levels simultaneously, representing a form of multi-task learning (MTL). However, analyzing and improving diffusion models from an MTL perspective remains under-explored. In particular, MTL can sometimes lead to the well-known phenomenon of $\textit{negative transfer}$, which results in the performance degradation of certain tasks due to conflicts between tasks. In this paper, we aim to analyze diffusion training from an MTL standpoint, presenting two key observations: $\textbf{(O1)}$ the task affinity between denoising tasks diminishes as the gap between noise levels widens, and $\textbf{(O2)}$ negative transfer can arise even in the context of diffusion training. Building upon these observations, our objective is to enhance diffusion training by mitigating negative transfer. To achieve this, we propose leveraging existing MTL methods, but the presence of a huge number of denoising tasks makes this computationally expensive to calculate the necessary per-task loss or gradient. To address this challenge, we propose clustering the denoising tasks into small task clusters and applying MTL methods to them. Specifically, based on $\textbf{(O2)}$, we employ interval clustering to enforce temporal proximity among denoising tasks within clusters. We show that interval clustering can be solved with dynamic programming and utilize signal-to-noise ratio, timestep, and task affinity for clustering objectives. Through this, our approach addresses the issue of negative transfer in diffusion models by allowing for efficient computation of MTL methods. We validate the proposed clustering and its integration with MTL methods through various experiments, demonstrating improved sample quality of diffusion models. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Lightweight Vision Transformer with Bidirectional Interaction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00396  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in vision backbones have significantly improved their performance by simultaneously modeling images' local and global contexts. However, the bidirectional interaction between these two contexts has not been well explored and exploited, which is important in the human visual system. This paper proposes a Fully Adaptive Self-Attention (FASA) mechanism for vision transformer to model the local and global information as well as the bidirectional interaction between them in context-aware ways. Specifically, FASA employs self-modulated convolutions to adaptively extract local representation while utilizing self-attention in down-sampled space to extract global representation. Subsequently, it conducts a bidirectional adaptation process between local and global representation to model their interaction. In addition, we introduce a fine-grained downsampling strategy to enhance the down-sampled self-attention mechanism for finer-grained global perception capability. Based on FASA, we develop a family of lightweight vision backbones, Fully Adaptive Transformer (FAT) family. Extensive experiments on multiple vision tasks demonstrate that FAT achieves impressive performance. Notably, FAT accomplishes a 77.6% accuracy on ImageNet-1K using only 4.5M parameters and 0.7G FLOPs, which surpasses the most advanced ConvNets and Transformers with similar model size and computational costs. Moreover, our model exhibits faster speed on modern GPU compared to other models. Code will be available at https://github.com/qhfan/FAT. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Adapting Pre-trained Language Models to Vision-Language Tasks via  Dynamic Visual Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00409  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained language models (PLMs) have played an increasing role in multimedia research. In terms of vision-language (VL) tasks, they often serve as a language encoder and still require an additional fusion network for VL reasoning, resulting in excessive memory overhead. In this paper, we focus on exploring PLMs as a stand-alone model for VL reasoning tasks. Inspired by the recently popular prompt tuning, we first prove that the processed visual features can be also projected onto the semantic space of PLMs and act as prompt tokens to bridge the gap between single- and multi-modal learning. However, this solution exhibits obvious redundancy in visual information and model inference, and the placement of prompt tokens also greatly affects the final performance. Based on these observations, we further propose a novel transfer learning approach for PLMs, termed Dynamic Visual Prompting (DVP). Concretely, DVP first deploys a cross-attention module to obtain text-related and compact visual prompt tokens, thereby greatly reducing the input length of PLMs. To obtain the optimal placement, we also equip DVP with a reinforcement-learning based search algorithm, which can automatically merge DVP with PLMs for different VL tasks via a very short search process. In addition, we also experiment DVP with the recently popular adapter approach to keep the most parameters of PLMs intact when adapting to VL tasks, helping PLMs achieve a quick shift between single- and multi-modal tasks. We apply DVP to two representative PLMs, namely BERT and T5, and conduct extensive experiments on a set of VL reasoning benchmarks including VQA2.0, GQA and SNLIVE. The experimental results not only show the advantage of DVP on efficiency and performance, but also confirm its superiority in adapting pre-trained language models to VL tasks. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Controllable Motion Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00416  
**Abstract:** Generating realistic and controllable motions for virtual characters is a challenging task in computer animation, and its implications extend to games, simulations, and virtual reality. Recent studies have drawn inspiration from the success of diffusion models in image generation, demonstrating the potential for addressing this task. However, the majority of these studies have been limited to offline applications that target at sequence-level generation that generates all steps simultaneously. To enable real-time motion synthesis with diffusion models in response to time-varying control signals, we propose the framework of the Controllable Motion Diffusion Model (COMODO). Our framework begins with an auto-regressive motion diffusion model (A-MDM), which generates motion sequences step by step. In this way, simply using the standard DDPM algorithm without any additional complexity, our framework is able to generate high-fidelity motion sequences over extended periods with different types of control signals. Then, we propose our reinforcement learning-based controller and controlling strategies on top of the A-MDM model, so that our framework can steer the motion synthesis process across multiple tasks, including target reaching, joystick-based control, goal-oriented control, and trajectory following. The proposed framework enables the real-time generation of diverse motions that react adaptively to user commands on-the-fly, thereby enhancing the overall user experience. Besides, it is compatible with the inpainting-based editing methods and can predict much more diverse motions without additional fine-tuning of the basic motion generation models. We conduct comprehensive experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of our framework in performing various tasks and compare its performance against state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Provably stable numerical method for the anisotropic diffusion equation  in toroidally confined magnetic fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00423  
**Abstract:** We present a novel numerical method for solving the anisotropic diffusion equation in toroidally confined magnetic fields which is efficient, accurate and provably stable. The continuous problem is written in terms of a derivative operator for the perpendicular transport and a linear operator, obtained through field line tracing, for the parallel transport. We derive energy estimates of the solution of the continuous initial boundary value problem. A discrete formulation is presented using operator splitting in time with the summation by parts finite difference approximation of spatial derivatives for the perpendicular diffusion operator. Weak penalty procedures are derived for implementing both boundary conditions and parallel diffusion operator obtained by field line tracing. We prove that the fully-discrete approximation is unconditionally stable and asymptotic preserving. Discrete energy estimates are shown to match the continuous energy estimate given the correct choice of penalty parameters. Convergence tests are shown for the perpendicular operator by itself, and the ``NIMROD benchmark" problem is used as a manufactured solution to show the full scheme converges even in the case where the perpendicular diffusion is zero. Finally, we present a magnetic field with chaotic regions and islands and show the contours of the anisotropic diffusion equation reproduce key features in the field. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Responsibility Perspective Transfer for Italian Femicide News  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00437  
**Abstract:** Different ways of linguistically expressing the same real-world event can lead to different perceptions of what happened. Previous work has shown that different descriptions of gender-based violence (GBV) influence the reader's perception of who is to blame for the violence, possibly reinforcing stereotypes which see the victim as partly responsible, too. As a contribution to raise awareness on perspective-based writing, and to facilitate access to alternative perspectives, we introduce the novel task of automatically rewriting GBV descriptions as a means to alter the perceived level of responsibility on the perpetrator. We present a quasi-parallel dataset of sentences with low and high perceived responsibility levels for the perpetrator, and experiment with unsupervised (mBART-based), zero-shot and few-shot (GPT3-based) methods for rewriting sentences. We evaluate our models using a questionnaire study and a suite of automatic metrics. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Exploring Open-Vocabulary Semantic Segmentation without Human Labels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00450  
**Abstract:** Semantic segmentation is a crucial task in computer vision that involves segmenting images into semantically meaningful regions at the pixel level. However, existing approaches often rely on expensive human annotations as supervision for model training, limiting their scalability to large, unlabeled datasets. To address this challenge, we present ZeroSeg, a novel method that leverages the existing pretrained vision-language (VL) model (e.g. CLIP) to train open-vocabulary zero-shot semantic segmentation models. Although acquired extensive knowledge of visual concepts, it is non-trivial to exploit knowledge from these VL models to the task of semantic segmentation, as they are usually trained at an image level. ZeroSeg overcomes this by distilling the visual concepts learned by VL models into a set of segment tokens, each summarizing a localized region of the target image. We evaluate ZeroSeg on multiple popular segmentation benchmarks, including PASCAL VOC 2012, PASCAL Context, and COCO, in a zero-shot manner (i.e., no training or adaption on target segmentation datasets). Our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance when compared to other zero-shot segmentation methods under the same training data, while also performing competitively compared to strongly supervised methods. Finally, we also demonstrated the effectiveness of ZeroSeg on open-vocabulary segmentation, through both human studies and qualitative visualizations. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Make Your Pre-trained Model Reversible: From Parameter to Memory  Efficient Fine-Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00477  
**Abstract:** Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) of pre-trained language models (PLMs) has emerged as a highly successful approach, with training only a small number of parameters without sacrificing performance and becoming the de-facto learning paradigm with the increasing size of PLMs. However, existing PEFT methods are not memory-efficient, because they still require caching most of the intermediate activations for the gradient calculation, akin to fine-tuning. One effective way to reduce the activation memory is to apply a reversible model, so the intermediate activations are not necessary to be cached and can be recomputed. Nevertheless, modifying a PLM to its reversible variant with PEFT is not straightforward, since the reversible model has a distinct architecture from the currently released PLMs. In this paper, we first investigate what is a key factor for the success of existing PEFT methods, and realize that it's essential to preserve the PLM's starting point when initializing a PEFT method. With this finding, we propose memory-efficient fine-tuning (MEFT) that inserts adapters into a PLM, preserving the PLM's starting point and making it reversible without additional pre-training. We evaluate MEFT on the GLUE benchmark and five question-answering tasks with various backbones, BERT, RoBERTa, BART and OPT. MEFT significantly reduces the activation memory up to 84% of full fine-tuning with a negligible amount of trainable parameters. Moreover, MEFT achieves the same score on GLUE and a comparable score on the question-answering tasks as full fine-tuning. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Reconstructing Graph Diffusion History from a Single Snapshot  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00488  
**Abstract:** Diffusion on graphs is ubiquitous with numerous high-impact applications. In these applications, complete diffusion histories play an essential role in terms of identifying dynamical patterns, reflecting on precaution actions, and forecasting intervention effects. Despite their importance, complete diffusion histories are rarely available and are highly challenging to reconstruct due to ill-posedness, explosive search space, and scarcity of training data. To date, few methods exist for diffusion history reconstruction. They are exclusively based on the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) formulation and require to know true diffusion parameters. In this paper, we study an even harder problem, namely reconstructing Diffusion history from A single SnapsHot} (DASH), where we seek to reconstruct the history from only the final snapshot without knowing true diffusion parameters. We start with theoretical analyses that reveal a fundamental limitation of the MLE formulation. We prove: (a) estimation error of diffusion parameters is unavoidable due to NP-hardness of diffusion parameter estimation, and (b) the MLE formulation is sensitive to estimation error of diffusion parameters. To overcome the inherent limitation of the MLE formulation, we propose a novel barycenter formulation: finding the barycenter of the posterior distribution of histories, which is provably stable against the estimation error of diffusion parameters. We further develop an effective solver named DIffusion hiTting Times with Optimal proposal (DITTO) by reducing the problem to estimating posterior expected hitting times via the Metropolis--Hastings Markov chain Monte Carlo method (M--H MCMC) and employing an unsupervised graph neural network to learn an optimal proposal to accelerate the convergence of M--H MCMC. We conduct extensive experiments to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Speech inpainting: Context-based speech synthesis guided by video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00489  
**Abstract:** Audio and visual modalities are inherently connected in speech signals: lip movements and facial expressions are correlated with speech sounds. This motivates studies that incorporate the visual modality to enhance an acoustic speech signal or even restore missing audio information. Specifically, this paper focuses on the problem of audio-visual speech inpainting, which is the task of synthesizing the speech in a corrupted audio segment in a way that it is consistent with the corresponding visual content and the uncorrupted audio context. We present an audio-visual transformer-based deep learning model that leverages visual cues that provide information about the content of the corrupted audio. It outperforms the previous state-of-the-art audio-visual model and audio-only baselines. We also show how visual features extracted with AV-HuBERT, a large audio-visual transformer for speech recognition, are suitable for synthesizing speech. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Image generation with shortest path diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00501  
**Abstract:** The field of image generation has made significant progress thanks to the introduction of Diffusion Models, which learn to progressively reverse a given image corruption. Recently, a few studies introduced alternative ways of corrupting images in Diffusion Models, with an emphasis on blurring. However, these studies are purely empirical and it remains unclear what is the optimal procedure for corrupting an image. In this work, we hypothesize that the optimal procedure minimizes the length of the path taken when corrupting an image towards a given final state. We propose the Fisher metric for the path length, measured in the space of probability distributions. We compute the shortest path according to this metric, and we show that it corresponds to a combination of image sharpening, rather than blurring, and noise deblurring. While the corruption was chosen arbitrarily in previous work, our Shortest Path Diffusion (SPD) determines uniquely the entire spatiotemporal structure of the corruption. We show that SPD improves on strong baselines without any hyperparameter tuning, and outperforms all previous Diffusion Models based on image blurring. Furthermore, any small deviation from the shortest path leads to worse performance, suggesting that SPD provides the optimal procedure to corrupt images. Our work sheds new light on observations made in recent works and provides a new approach to improve diffusion models on images and other types of data. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** DiffRoom: Diffusion-based High-Quality 3D Room Reconstruction and  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00519  
**Abstract:** We present DiffRoom, a novel framework for tackling the problem of high-quality 3D indoor room reconstruction and generation, both of which are challenging due to the complexity and diversity of the room geometry. Although diffusion-based generative models have previously demonstrated impressive performance in image generation and object-level 3D generation, they have not yet been applied to room-level 3D generation due to their computationally intensive costs. In DiffRoom, we propose a sparse 3D diffusion network that is efficient and possesses strong generative performance for Truncated Signed Distance Field (TSDF), based on a rough occupancy prior. Inspired by KinectFusion's incremental alignment and fusion of local SDFs, we propose a diffusion-based TSDF fusion approach that iteratively diffuses and fuses TSDFs, facilitating the reconstruction and generation of an entire room environment. Additionally, to ease training, we introduce a curriculum diffusion learning paradigm that speeds up the training convergence process and enables high-quality reconstruction. According to the user study, the mesh quality generated by our DiffRoom can even outperform the ground truth mesh provided by ScanNet. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** A Novel Driver Distraction Behavior Detection Based on Self-Supervised  Learning Framework with Masked Image Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00543  
**Abstract:** Driver distraction causes a significant number of traffic accidents every year, resulting in economic losses and casualties. Currently, the level of automation in commercial vehicles is far from completely unmanned, and drivers still play an important role in operating and controlling the vehicle. Therefore, driver distraction behavior detection is crucial for road safety. At present, driver distraction detection primarily relies on traditional Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and supervised learning methods. However, there are still challenges such as the high cost of labeled datasets, limited ability to capture high-level semantic information, and weak generalization performance. In order to solve these problems, this paper proposes a new self-supervised learning method based on masked image modeling for driver distraction behavior detection. Firstly, a self-supervised learning framework for masked image modeling (MIM) is introduced to solve the serious human and material consumption issues caused by dataset labeling. Secondly, the Swin Transformer is employed as an encoder. Performance is enhanced by reconfiguring the Swin Transformer block and adjusting the distribution of the number of window multi-head self-attention (W-MSA) and shifted window multi-head self-attention (SW-MSA) detection heads across all stages, which leads to model more lightening. Finally, various data augmentation strategies are used along with the best random masking strategy to strengthen the model's recognition and generalization ability. Test results on a large-scale driver distraction behavior dataset show that the self-supervised learning method proposed in this paper achieves an accuracy of 99.60%, approximating the excellent performance of advanced supervised learning methods. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** AvatarStudio: Text-driven Editing of 3D Dynamic Human Head Avatars  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00547  
**Abstract:** Capturing and editing full head performances enables the creation of virtual characters with various applications such as extended reality and media production. The past few years witnessed a steep rise in the photorealism of human head avatars. Such avatars can be controlled through different input data modalities, including RGB, audio, depth, IMUs and others. While these data modalities provide effective means of control, they mostly focus on editing the head movements such as the facial expressions, head pose and/or camera viewpoint. In this paper, we propose AvatarStudio, a text-based method for editing the appearance of a dynamic full head avatar. Our approach builds on existing work to capture dynamic performances of human heads using neural radiance field (NeRF) and edits this representation with a text-to-image diffusion model. Specifically, we introduce an optimization strategy for incorporating multiple keyframes representing different camera viewpoints and time stamps of a video performance into a single diffusion model. Using this personalized diffusion model, we edit the dynamic NeRF by introducing view-and-time-aware Score Distillation Sampling (VT-SDS) following a model-based guidance approach. Our method edits the full head in a canonical space, and then propagates these edits to remaining time steps via a pretrained deformation network. We evaluate our method visually and numerically via a user study, and results show that our method outperforms existing approaches. Our experiments validate the design choices of our method and highlight that our edits are genuine, personalized, as well as 3D- and time-consistent. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Enhancing Programming eTextbooks with ChatGPT Generated  Counterfactual-Thinking-Inspired Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00551  
**Abstract:** Digital textbooks have become an integral part of everyday learning tasks. In this work, we consider the use of digital textbooks for programming classes. Generally, students struggle with utilizing textbooks on programming to the maximum, with a possible reason being that the example programs provided as illustration of concepts in these textbooks don't offer sufficient interactivity for students, and thereby not sufficiently motivating to explore or understand these programming examples better. In our work, we explore the idea of enhancing the navigability of intelligent textbooks with the use of ``counterfactual'' questions, to make students think critically about these programs and enhance possible program comprehension. Inspired from previous works on nudging students on counter factual thinking, we present the possibility to enhance digital textbooks with questions generated using GPT. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** We never go out of Style: Motion Disentanglement by Subspace  Decomposition of Latent Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00559  
**Abstract:** Real-world objects perform complex motions that involve multiple independent motion components. For example, while talking, a person continuously changes their expressions, head, and body pose. In this work, we propose a novel method to decompose motion in videos by using a pretrained image GAN model. We discover disentangled motion subspaces in the latent space of widely used style-based GAN models that are semantically meaningful and control a single explainable motion component. The proposed method uses only a few $(\approx10)$ ground truth video sequences to obtain such subspaces. We extensively evaluate the disentanglement properties of motion subspaces on face and car datasets, quantitatively and qualitatively. Further, we present results for multiple downstream tasks such as motion editing, and selective motion transfer, e.g. transferring only facial expressions without training for it. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Masked Autoencoders with Multi-Window Attention Are Better Audio  Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00561  
**Abstract:** Several recent works have adapted Masked Autoencoders (MAEs) for learning general-purpose audio representations. However, they do not address two key aspects of modelling multi-domain audio data: (i) real-world audio tasks consist of a combination of local+global contexts, and (ii) real-world audio signals are complex compositions of several acoustic elements with different time-frequency characteristics. To address these concerns, this work proposes a Multi-Window Masked Autoencoder (MW-MAE) fitted with a novel Multi-Window Multi-Head Attention module that can capture information at multiple local and global contexts in every decoder transformer block through attention heads of several distinct local and global windows. Empirical results on ten downstream audio tasks show that MW-MAEs consistently outperform standard MAEs in overall performance and learn better general-purpose audio representations, as well as demonstrate considerably better scaling characteristics. Exploratory analyses of the learned representations reveals that MW-MAE encoders learn attention heads with more distinct entropies compared to those learned by MAEs, while attention heads across the different transformer blocks in MW-MAE decoders learn correlated feature representations, enabling each block to independently capture local and global information, leading to a decoupled feature hierarchy. Code for feature extraction and downstream experiments along with pre-trained weights can be found at https://github.com/10997NeurIPS23/10997_mwmae. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Analysis of ChatGPT on Source Code  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00597  
**Abstract:** This paper explores the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) and in particular ChatGPT in programming, source code analysis, and code generation. LLMs and ChatGPT are built using machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques, and they offer several benefits to developers and programmers. While these models can save time and provide highly accurate results, they are not yet advanced enough to replace human programmers entirely. The paper investigates the potential applications of LLMs and ChatGPT in various areas, such as code creation, code documentation, bug detection, refactoring, and more. The paper also suggests that the usage of LLMs and ChatGPT is expected to increase in the future as they offer unparalleled benefits to the programming community. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Stabilized Isogeometric Collocation Methods For Scalar Transport and  Incompressible Fluid Flow  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00601  
**Abstract:** In this work we adapt classical residual-based stabilization techniques to the spline collocation setting. Inspired by the Streamline-Upwind-Petrov-Galerkin and Pressure-Stabilizing-Petrov-Galerkin methods, our stabilized collocation schemes address spurious oscillations that can arise from advection and pressure instabilities. Numerical examples for the advection-diffusion equation, Stokes equations, and incompressible Navier-Stokes equations show the effectiveness of the proposed stabilized schemes while maintaining the high-order convergence rates and accuracy of standard isogeometric collocation on smooth problems. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** General SIS diffusion process with indirect spreading pathways on a  hypergraph  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00619  
**Abstract:** While conventional graphs only characterize pairwise interactions, higher-order networks (hypergraph, simplicial complex) capture multi-body interactions, which is a potentially more suitable modeling framework for a complex real system. However, the introduction of higher-order interactions brings new challenges for the rigorous analysis of such systems on a higher-order network. In this paper, we study a series of SIS-type diffusion processes with both indirect and direct pathways on a directed hypergraph. In a concrete case, the model we propose is based on a specific choice (polynomial) of interaction function (how several agents influence each other when they are in a hyperedge). Then, by the same choice of interaction function, we further extend the system and propose a bi-virus competing model on a directed hypergraph by coupling two single-virus models together. Finally, the most general model in this paper considers an abstract interaction function under single-virus and bi-virus settings. For the single-virus model, we provide the results regarding healthy state and endemic equilibrium. For the bi-virus setting, we further give an analysis of the existence and stability of the healthy state, dominant endemic equilibria, and coexisting equilibria. All theoretical results are finally supported by some numerical examples. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** ReviewerGPT? An Exploratory Study on Using Large Language Models for  Paper Reviewing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00622  
**Abstract:** Given the rapid ascent of large language models (LLMs), we study the question: (How) can large language models help in reviewing of scientific papers or proposals? We first conduct some pilot studies where we find that (i) GPT-4 outperforms other LLMs (Bard, Vicuna, Koala, Alpaca, LLaMa, Dolly, OpenAssistant, StableLM), and (ii) prompting with a specific question (e.g., to identify errors) outperforms prompting to simply write a review. With these insights, we study the use of LLMs (specifically, GPT-4) for three tasks: 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Class Anchor Margin Loss for Content-Based Image Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00630  
**Abstract:** The performance of neural networks in content-based image retrieval (CBIR) is highly influenced by the chosen loss (objective) function. The majority of objective functions for neural models can be divided into metric learning and statistical learning. Metric learning approaches require a pair mining strategy that often lacks efficiency, while statistical learning approaches are not generating highly compact features due to their indirect feature optimization. To this end, we propose a novel repeller-attractor loss that falls in the metric learning paradigm, yet directly optimizes for the L2 metric without the need of generating pairs. Our loss is formed of three components. One leading objective ensures that the learned features are attracted to each designated learnable class anchor. The second loss component regulates the anchors and forces them to be separable by a margin, while the third objective ensures that the anchors do not collapse to zero. Furthermore, we develop a more efficient two-stage retrieval system by harnessing the learned class anchors during the first stage of the retrieval process, eliminating the need of comparing the query with every image in the database. We establish a set of four datasets (CIFAR-100, Food-101, SVHN, and Tiny ImageNet) and evaluate the proposed objective in the context of few-shot and full-set training on the CBIR task, by using both convolutional and transformer architectures. Compared to existing objective functions, our empirical evidence shows that the proposed objective is generating superior and more consistent results. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Wuerstchen: Efficient Pretraining of Text-to-Image Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00637  
**Abstract:** We introduce Wuerstchen, a novel technique for text-to-image synthesis that unites competitive performance with unprecedented cost-effectiveness and ease of training on constrained hardware. Building on recent advancements in machine learning, our approach, which utilizes latent diffusion strategies at strong latent image compression rates, significantly reduces the computational burden, typically associated with state-of-the-art models, while preserving, if not enhancing, the quality of generated images. Wuerstchen achieves notable speed improvements at inference time, thereby rendering real-time applications more viable. One of the key advantages of our method lies in its modest training requirements of only 9,200 GPU hours, slashing the usual costs significantly without compromising the end performance. In a comparison against the state-of-the-art, we found the approach to yield strong competitiveness. This paper opens the door to a new line of research that prioritizes both performance and computational accessibility, hence democratizing the use of sophisticated AI technologies. Through Wuerstchen, we demonstrate a compelling stride forward in the realm of text-to-image synthesis, offering an innovative path to explore in future research. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Being Right for Whose Right Reasons?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00639  
**Abstract:** Explainability methods are used to benchmark the extent to which model predictions align with human rationales i.e., are 'right for the right reasons'. Previous work has failed to acknowledge, however, that what counts as a rationale is sometimes subjective. This paper presents what we think is a first of its kind, a collection of human rationale annotations augmented with the annotators demographic information. We cover three datasets spanning sentiment analysis and common-sense reasoning, and six demographic groups (balanced across age and ethnicity). Such data enables us to ask both what demographics our predictions align with and whose reasoning patterns our models' rationales align with. We find systematic inter-group annotator disagreement and show how 16 Transformer-based models align better with rationales provided by certain demographic groups: We find that models are biased towards aligning best with older and/or white annotators. We zoom in on the effects of model size and model distillation, finding -- contrary to our expectations -- negative correlations between model size and rationale agreement as well as no evidence that either model size or model distillation improves fairness. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** EmoMix: Emotion Mixing via Diffusion Models for Emotional Speech  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00648  
**Abstract:** There has been significant progress in emotional Text-To-Speech (TTS) synthesis technology in recent years. However, existing methods primarily focus on the synthesis of a limited number of emotion types and have achieved unsatisfactory performance in intensity control. To address these limitations, we propose EmoMix, which can generate emotional speech with specified intensity or a mixture of emotions. Specifically, EmoMix is a controllable emotional TTS model based on a diffusion probabilistic model and a pre-trained speech emotion recognition (SER) model used to extract emotion embedding. Mixed emotion synthesis is achieved by combining the noises predicted by diffusion model conditioned on different emotions during only one sampling process at the run-time. We further apply the Neutral and specific primary emotion mixed in varying degrees to control intensity. Experimental results validate the effectiveness of EmoMix for synthesizing mixed emotion and intensity control. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Predicting the Quality of Revisions in Argumentative Writing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00667  
**Abstract:** The ability to revise in response to feedback is critical to students' writing success. In the case of argument writing in specific, identifying whether an argument revision (AR) is successful or not is a complex problem because AR quality is dependent on the overall content of an argument. For example, adding the same evidence sentence could strengthen or weaken existing claims in different argument contexts (ACs). To address this issue we developed Chain-of-Thought prompts to facilitate ChatGPT-generated ACs for AR quality predictions. The experiments on two corpora, our annotated elementary essays and existing college essays benchmark, demonstrate the superiority of the proposed ACs over baselines. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Encoder-decoder multimodal speaker change detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00680  
**Abstract:** The task of speaker change detection (SCD), which detects points where speakers change in an input, is essential for several applications. Several studies solved the SCD task using audio inputs only and have shown limited performance. Recently, multimodal SCD (MMSCD) models, which utilise text modality in addition to audio, have shown improved performance. In this study, the proposed model are built upon two main proposals, a novel mechanism for modality fusion and the adoption of a encoder-decoder architecture. Different to previous MMSCD works that extract speaker embeddings from extremely short audio segments, aligned to a single word, we use a speaker embedding extracted from 1.5s. A transformer decoder layer further improves the performance of an encoder-only MMSCD model. The proposed model achieves state-of-the-art results among studies that report SCD performance and is also on par with recent work that combines SCD with automatic speech recognition via human transcription. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Can Large Pre-trained Models Help Vision Models on Perception Tasks?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00693  
**Abstract:** The recent upsurge in pre-trained large models (e.g. GPT-4) has swept across the entire deep learning community. Such powerful large language models (LLMs) demonstrate advanced generative ability and multimodal understanding capability, which quickly achieve new state-of-the-art performances on a variety of benchmarks. The pre-trained LLM usually plays the role as a universal AI model that can conduct various tasks, including context reasoning, article analysis and image content comprehension. However, considering the prohibitively high memory and computational cost for implementing such a large model, the conventional models (such as CNN and ViT), are still essential for many visual perception tasks. In this paper, we propose to enhance the representation ability of ordinary vision models for perception tasks (e.g. image classification) by taking advantage of large pre-trained models. We present a new learning paradigm in which the knowledge extracted from large pre-trained models are utilized to help models like CNN and ViT learn enhanced representations and achieve better performance. Firstly, we curate a high quality description set by prompting a multimodal LLM to generate descriptive text for all training images. Furthermore, we feed these detailed descriptions into a pre-trained encoder to extract text embeddings with rich semantic information that encodes the content of images. During training, text embeddings will serve as extra supervising signals and be aligned with image representations learned by vision models. The alignment process helps vision models learn better and achieve higher accuracy with the assistance of pre-trained LLMs. We conduct extensive experiments to verify that the proposed algorithm consistently improves the performance for various vision models with heterogeneous architectures. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Prediction of Post-Operative Renal and Pulmonary Complication Using  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00698  
**Abstract:** Postoperative complications pose a significant challenge in the healthcare industry, resulting in elevated healthcare expenses and prolonged hospital stays, and in rare instances, patient mortality. To improve patient outcomes and reduce healthcare costs, healthcare providers rely on various perioperative risk scores to guide clinical decisions and prioritize care. In recent years, machine learning techniques have shown promise in predicting postoperative complications and fatality, with deep learning models achieving remarkable success in healthcare applications. However, research on the application of deep learning models to intra-operative anesthesia management data is limited. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of transformer-based models in predicting postoperative acute renal failure, postoperative pulmonary complications, and postoperative in-hospital mortality. We compare our method's performance with state-of-the-art tabular data prediction models, including gradient boosting trees and sequential attention models, on a clinical dataset. Our results demonstrate that transformer-based models can achieve superior performance in predicting postoperative complications and outperform traditional machine learning models. This work highlights the potential of deep learning techniques, specifically transformer-based models, in revolutionizing the healthcare industry's approach to postoperative care. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Boosting the Performance of Transformer Architectures for Semantic  Textual Similarity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00708  
**Abstract:** Semantic textual similarity is the task of estimating the similarity between the meaning of two texts. In this paper, we fine-tune transformer architectures for semantic textual similarity on the Semantic Textual Similarity Benchmark by tuning the model partially and then end-to-end. We experiment with BERT, RoBERTa, and DeBERTaV3 cross-encoders by approaching the problem as a binary classification task or a regression task. We combine the outputs of the transformer models and use handmade features as inputs for boosting algorithms. Due to worse test set results coupled with improvements on the validation set, we experiment with different dataset splits to further investigate this occurrence. We also provide an error analysis, focused on the edges of the prediction range. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Dissecting Arbitrary-scale Super-resolution Capability from Pre-trained  Diffusion Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00714  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based Generative Models (DGMs) have achieved unparalleled performance in synthesizing high-quality visual content, opening up the opportunity to improve image super-resolution (SR) tasks. Recent solutions for these tasks often train architecture-specific DGMs from scratch, or require iterative fine-tuning and distillation on pre-trained DGMs, both of which take considerable time and hardware investments. More seriously, since the DGMs are established with a discrete pre-defined upsampling scale, they cannot well match the emerging requirements of arbitrary-scale super-resolution (ASSR), where a unified model adapts to arbitrary upsampling scales, instead of preparing a series of distinct models for each case. These limitations beg an intriguing question: can we identify the ASSR capability of existing pre-trained DGMs without the need for distillation or fine-tuning? In this paper, we take a step towards resolving this matter by proposing Diff-SR, a first ASSR attempt based solely on pre-trained DGMs, without additional training efforts. It is motivated by an exciting finding that a simple methodology, which first injects a specific amount of noise into the low-resolution images before invoking a DGM's backward diffusion process, outperforms current leading solutions. The key insight is determining a suitable amount of noise to inject, i.e., small amounts lead to poor low-level fidelity, while over-large amounts degrade the high-level signature. Through a finely-grained theoretical analysis, we propose the Perceptual Recoverable Field (PRF), a metric that achieves the optimal trade-off between these two factors. Extensive experiments verify the effectiveness, flexibility, and adaptability of Diff-SR, demonstrating superior performance to state-of-the-art solutions under diverse ASSR environments. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** UnDiff: Unsupervised Voice Restoration with Unconditional Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00721  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces UnDiff, a diffusion probabilistic model capable of solving various speech inverse tasks. Being once trained for speech waveform generation in an unconditional manner, it can be adapted to different tasks including degradation inversion, neural vocoding, and source separation. In this paper, we, first, tackle the challenging problem of unconditional waveform generation by comparing different neural architectures and preconditioning domains. After that, we demonstrate how the trained unconditional diffusion could be adapted to different tasks of speech processing by the means of recent developments in post-training conditioning of diffusion models. Finally, we demonstrate the performance of the proposed technique on the tasks of bandwidth extension, declipping, vocoding, and speech source separation and compare it to the baselines. The codes will be released soon. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Column Type Annotation using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00745  
**Abstract:** Column type annotation is the task of annotating the columns of a relational table with the semantic type of the values contained in each column. Column type annotation is a crucial pre-processing step for data search and integration in the context of data lakes. State-of-the-art column type annotation methods either rely on matching table columns to properties of a knowledge graph or fine-tune pre-trained language models such as BERT for the column type annotation task. In this work, we take a different approach and explore using ChatGPT for column type annotation. We evaluate different prompt designs in zero- and few-shot settings and experiment with providing task definitions and detailed instructions to the model. We further implement a two-step table annotation pipeline which first determines the class of the entities described in the table and depending on this class asks ChatGPT to annotate columns using only the relevant subset of the overall vocabulary. Using instructions as well as the two-step pipeline, ChatGPT reaches F1 scores of over 85% in zero- and one-shot setups. To reach a similar F1 score a RoBERTa model needs to be fine-tuned with 300 examples. This comparison shows that ChatGPT is able deliver competitive results for the column type annotation task given no or only a minimal amount of task-specific demonstrations. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Differentiable Tree Operations Promote Compositional Generalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00751  
**Abstract:** In the context of structure-to-structure transformation tasks, learning sequences of discrete symbolic operations poses significant challenges due to their non-differentiability. To facilitate the learning of these symbolic sequences, we introduce a differentiable tree interpreter that compiles high-level symbolic tree operations into subsymbolic matrix operations on tensors. We present a novel Differentiable Tree Machine (DTM) architecture that integrates our interpreter with an external memory and an agent that learns to sequentially select tree operations to execute the target transformation in an end-to-end manner. With respect to out-of-distribution compositional generalization on synthetic semantic parsing and language generation tasks, DTM achieves 100% while existing baselines such as Transformer, Tree Transformer, LSTM, and Tree2Tree LSTM achieve less than 30%. DTM remains highly interpretable in addition to its perfect performance. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** LiT-4-RSVQA: Lightweight Transformer-based Visual Question Answering in  Remote Sensing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00758  
**Abstract:** Visual question answering (VQA) methods in remote sensing (RS) aim to answer natural language questions with respect to an RS image. Most of the existing methods require a large amount of computational resources, which limits their application in operational scenarios in RS. To address this issue, in this paper we present an effective lightweight transformer-based VQA in RS (LiT-4-RSVQA) architecture for efficient and accurate VQA in RS. Our architecture consists of: i) a lightweight text encoder module; ii) a lightweight image encoder module; iii) a fusion module; and iv) a classification module. The experimental results obtained on a VQA benchmark dataset demonstrate that our proposed LiT-4-RSVQA architecture provides accurate VQA results while significantly reducing the computational requirements on the executing hardware. Our code is publicly available at https://git.tu-berlin.de/rsim/lit4rsvqa. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** FDNeRF: Semantics-Driven Face Reconstruction, Prompt Editing and  Relighting with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00783  
**Abstract:** The ability to create high-quality 3D faces from a single image has become increasingly important with wide applications in video conferencing, AR/VR, and advanced video editing in movie industries. In this paper, we propose Face Diffusion NeRF (FDNeRF), a new generative method to reconstruct high-quality Face NeRFs from single images, complete with semantic editing and relighting capabilities. FDNeRF utilizes high-resolution 3D GAN inversion and expertly trained 2D latent-diffusion model, allowing users to manipulate and construct Face NeRFs in zero-shot learning without the need for explicit 3D data. With carefully designed illumination and identity preserving loss, as well as multi-modal pre-training, FD-NeRF offers users unparalleled control over the editing process enabling them to create and edit face NeRFs using just single-view images, text prompts, and explicit target lighting. The advanced features of FDNeRF have been designed to produce more impressive results than existing 2D editing approaches that rely on 2D segmentation maps for editable attributes. Experiments show that our FDNeRF achieves exceptionally realistic results and unprecedented flexibility in editing compared with state-of-the-art 3D face reconstruction and editing methods. Our code will be available at https://github.com/BillyXYB/FDNeRF. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Improved Cross-Lingual Transfer Learning For Automatic Speech  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00789  
**Abstract:** Research in multilingual speech-to-text translation is topical. Having a single model that supports multiple translation tasks is desirable. The goal of this work it to improve cross-lingual transfer learning in multilingual speech-to-text translation via semantic knowledge distillation. We show that by initializing the encoder of the encoder-decoder sequence-to-sequence translation model with SAMU-XLS-R, a multilingual speech transformer encoder trained using multi-modal (speech-text) semantic knowledge distillation, we achieve significantly better cross-lingual task knowledge transfer than the baseline XLS-R, a multilingual speech transformer encoder trained via self-supervised learning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on two popular datasets, namely, CoVoST-2 and Europarl. On the 21 translation tasks of the CoVoST-2 benchmark, we achieve an average improvement of 12.8 BLEU points over the baselines. In the zero-shot translation scenario, we achieve an average gain of 18.8 and 11.9 average BLEU points on unseen medium and low-resource languages. We make similar observations on Europarl speech translation benchmark. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** FigGen: Text to Scientific Figure Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00800  
**Abstract:** The generative modeling landscape has experienced tremendous growth in recent years, particularly in generating natural images and art. Recent techniques have shown impressive potential in creating complex visual compositions while delivering impressive realism and quality. However, state-of-the-art methods have been focusing on the narrow domain of natural images, while other distributions remain unexplored. In this paper, we introduce the problem of text-to-figure generation, that is creating scientific figures of papers from text descriptions. We present FigGen, a diffusion-based approach for text-to-figure as well as the main challenges of the proposed task. Code and models are available at https://github.com/joanrod/figure-diffusion 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Adaptive Contextual Biasing for Transducer Based Streaming Speech  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00804  
**Abstract:** By incorporating additional contextual information, deep biasing methods have emerged as a promising solution for speech recognition of personalized words. However, for real-world voice assistants, always biasing on such personalized words with high prediction scores can significantly degrade the performance of recognizing common words. To address this issue, we propose an adaptive contextual biasing method based on Context-Aware Transformer Transducer (CATT) that utilizes the biased encoder and predictor embeddings to perform streaming prediction of contextual phrase occurrences. Such prediction is then used to dynamically switch the bias list on and off, enabling the model to adapt to both personalized and common scenarios. Experiments on Librispeech and internal voice assistant datasets show that our approach can achieve up to 6.7% and 20.7% relative reduction in WER and CER compared to the baseline respectively, mitigating up to 96.7% and 84.9% of the relative WER and CER increase for common cases. Furthermore, our approach has a minimal performance impact in personalized scenarios while maintaining a streaming inference pipeline with negligible RTF increase. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Auto-Spikformer: Spikformer Architecture Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00807  
**Abstract:** The integration of self-attention mechanisms into Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) has garnered considerable interest in the realm of advanced deep learning, primarily due to their biological properties. Recent advancements in SNN architecture, such as Spikformer, have demonstrated promising outcomes by leveraging Spiking Self-Attention (SSA) and Spiking Patch Splitting (SPS) modules. However, we observe that Spikformer may exhibit excessive energy consumption, potentially attributable to redundant channels and blocks. To mitigate this issue, we propose Auto-Spikformer, a one-shot Transformer Architecture Search (TAS) method, which automates the quest for an optimized Spikformer architecture. To facilitate the search process, we propose methods Evolutionary SNN neurons (ESNN), which optimizes the SNN parameters, and apply the previous method of weight entanglement supernet training, which optimizes the Vision Transformer (ViT) parameters. Moreover, we propose an accuracy and energy balanced fitness function $\mathcal{F}_{AEB}$ that jointly considers both energy consumption and accuracy, and aims to find a Pareto optimal combination that balances these two objectives. Our experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of Auto-Spikformer, which outperforms the state-of-the-art method including CNN or ViT models that are manually or automatically designed while significantly reducing energy consumption. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** UniDiff: Advancing Vision-Language Models with Generative and  Discriminative Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00813  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in vision-language pre-training have enabled machines to perform better in multimodal object discrimination (e.g., image-text semantic alignment) and image synthesis (e.g., text-to-image generation). On the other hand, fine-tuning pre-trained models with discriminative or generative capabilities such as CLIP and Stable Diffusion on domain-specific datasets has shown to be effective in various tasks by adapting to specific domains. However, few studies have explored the possibility of learning both discriminative and generative capabilities and leveraging their synergistic effects to create a powerful and personalized multimodal model during fine-tuning. This paper presents UniDiff, a unified multi-modal model that integrates image-text contrastive learning (ITC), text-conditioned image synthesis learning (IS), and reciprocal semantic consistency modeling (RSC). UniDiff effectively learns aligned semantics and mitigates the issue of semantic collapse during fine-tuning on small datasets by leveraging RSC on visual features from CLIP and diffusion models, without altering the pre-trained model's basic architecture. UniDiff demonstrates versatility in both multi-modal understanding and generative tasks. Experimental results on three datasets (Fashion-man, Fashion-woman, and E-commercial Product) showcase substantial enhancements in vision-language retrieval and text-to-image generation, illustrating the advantages of combining discriminative and generative fine-tuning. The proposed UniDiff model establishes a robust pipeline for personalized modeling and serves as a benchmark for future comparisons in the field. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Robust Backdoor Attack with Visible, Semantic, Sample-Specific, and  Compatible Triggers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00816  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks (DNNs) can be manipulated to exhibit specific behaviors when exposed to specific trigger patterns, without affecting their performance on normal samples. This type of attack is known as a backdoor attack. Recent research has focused on designing invisible triggers for backdoor attacks to ensure visual stealthiness. These triggers have demonstrated strong attack performance even under backdoor defense, which aims to eliminate or suppress the backdoor effect in the model. However, through experimental observations, we have noticed that these carefully designed invisible triggers are often susceptible to visual distortion during inference, such as Gaussian blurring or environmental variations in real-world scenarios. This phenomenon significantly undermines the effectiveness of attacks in practical applications. Unfortunately, this issue has not received sufficient attention and has not been thoroughly investigated. To address this limitation, we propose a novel approach called the Visible, Semantic, Sample-Specific, and Compatible trigger (VSSC-trigger), which leverages a recent powerful image method known as the stable diffusion model. In this approach, a text trigger is utilized as a prompt and combined with a benign image. The resulting combination is then processed by a pre-trained stable diffusion model, generating a corresponding semantic object. This object is seamlessly integrated with the original image, resulting in a new realistic image, referred to as the poisoned image. Extensive experimental results and analysis validate the effectiveness and robustness of our proposed attack method, even in the presence of visual distortion. We believe that the new trigger proposed in this work, along with the proposed idea to address the aforementioned issues, will have significant prospective implications for further advancements in this direction. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Reconstructing Sea Surface Temperature Images: A Masked Autoencoder  Approach for Cloud Masking and Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00835  
**Abstract:** This thesis presents a new algorithm to mitigate cloud masking in the analysis of sea surface temperature (SST) data generated by remote sensing technologies, e.g., Clouds interfere with the analysis of all remote sensing data using wavelengths shorter than 12 microns, significantly limiting the quantity of usable data and creating a biased geographical distribution (towards equatorial and coastal regions). To address this issue, we propose an unsupervised machine learning algorithm called Enki which uses a Vision Transformer with Masked Autoencoding to reconstruct masked pixels. We train four different models of Enki with varying mask ratios (t) of 10%, 35%, 50%, and 75% on the generated Ocean General Circulation Model (OGCM) dataset referred to as LLC4320. To evaluate performance, we reconstruct a validation set of LLC4320 SST images with random ``clouds'' corrupting p=10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50% of the images with individual patches of 4x4 pixel^2. We consistently find that at all levels of p there is one or multiple models that reconstruct the images with a mean RMSE of less than 0.03K, i.e. lower than the estimated sensor error of VIIRS data. Similarly, at the individual patch level, the reconstructions have RMSE 8x smaller than the fluctuations in the patch. And, as anticipated, reconstruction errors are larger for images with a higher degree of complexity. Our analysis also reveals that patches along the image border have systematically higher reconstruction error; we recommend ignoring these in production. We conclude that Enki shows great promise to surpass in-painting as a means of reconstructing cloud masking. Future research will develop Enki to reconstruct real-world data. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** A Transformer-based representation-learning model with unified  processing of multimodal input for clinical diagnostics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00864  
**Abstract:** During the diagnostic process, clinicians leverage multimodal information, such as chief complaints, medical images, and laboratory-test results. Deep-learning models for aiding diagnosis have yet to meet this requirement. Here we report a Transformer-based representation-learning model as a clinical diagnostic aid that processes multimodal input in a unified manner. Rather than learning modality-specific features, the model uses embedding layers to convert images and unstructured and structured text into visual tokens and text tokens, and bidirectional blocks with intramodal and intermodal attention to learn a holistic representation of radiographs, the unstructured chief complaint and clinical history, structured clinical information such as laboratory-test results and patient demographic information. The unified model outperformed an image-only model and non-unified multimodal diagnosis models in the identification of pulmonary diseases (by 12% and 9%, respectively) and in the prediction of adverse clinical outcomes in patients with COVID-19 (by 29% and 7%, respectively). Leveraging unified multimodal Transformer-based models may help streamline triage of patients and facilitate the clinical decision process. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** LLaVA-Med: Training a Large Language-and-Vision Assistant for  Biomedicine in One Day  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00890  
**Abstract:** Conversational generative AI has demonstrated remarkable promise for empowering biomedical practitioners, but current investigations focus on unimodal text. Multimodal conversational AI has seen rapid progress by leveraging billions of image-text pairs from the public web, but such general-domain vision-language models still lack sophistication in understanding and conversing about biomedical images. In this paper, we propose a cost-efficient approach for training a vision-language conversational assistant that can answer open-ended research questions of biomedical images. The key idea is to leverage a large-scale, broad-coverage biomedical figure-caption dataset extracted from PubMed Central, use GPT-4 to self-instruct open-ended instruction-following data from the captions, and then fine-tune a large general-domain vision-language model using a novel curriculum learning method. Specifically, the model first learns to align biomedical vocabulary using the figure-caption pairs as is, then learns to master open-ended conversational semantics using GPT-4 generated instruction-following data, broadly mimicking how a layperson gradually acquires biomedical knowledge. This enables us to train a Large Language and Vision Assistant for BioMedicine (LLaVA-Med) in less than 15 hours (with eight A100s). LLaVA-Med exhibits excellent multimodal conversational capability and can follow open-ended instruction to assist with inquiries about a biomedical image. On three standard biomedical visual question answering datasets, LLaVA-Med outperforms previous supervised state-of-the-art on certain metrics. To facilitate biomedical multimodal research, we will release our instruction-following data and the LLaVA-Med model. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Conditioning Diffusion Models via Attributes and Semantic Masks for Face  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00914  
**Abstract:** Deep generative models have shown impressive results in generating realistic images of faces. GANs managed to generate high-quality, high-fidelity images when conditioned on semantic masks, but they still lack the ability to diversify their output. Diffusion models partially solve this problem and are able to generate diverse samples given the same condition. In this paper, we propose a multi-conditioning approach for diffusion models via cross-attention exploiting both attributes and semantic masks to generate high-quality and controllable face images. We also studied the impact of applying perceptual-focused loss weighting into the latent space instead of the pixel space. Our method extends the previous approaches by introducing conditioning on more than one set of features, guaranteeing a more fine-grained control over the generated face images. We evaluate our approach on the CelebA-HQ dataset, and we show that it can generate realistic and diverse samples while allowing for fine-grained control over multiple attributes and semantic regions. Additionally, we perform an ablation study to evaluate the impact of different conditioning strategies on the quality and diversity of the generated images. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Inserting Anybody in Diffusion Models via Celeb Basis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00926  
**Abstract:** Exquisite demand exists for customizing the pretrained large text-to-image model, $\textit{e.g.}$, Stable Diffusion, to generate innovative concepts, such as the users themselves. However, the newly-added concept from previous customization methods often shows weaker combination abilities than the original ones even given several images during training. We thus propose a new personalization method that allows for the seamless integration of a unique individual into the pre-trained diffusion model using just $\textbf{one facial photograph}$ and only $\textbf{1024 learnable parameters}$ under $\textbf{3 minutes}$. So as we can effortlessly generate stunning images of this person in any pose or position, interacting with anyone and doing anything imaginable from text prompts. To achieve this, we first analyze and build a well-defined celeb basis from the embedding space of the pre-trained large text encoder. Then, given one facial photo as the target identity, we generate its own embedding by optimizing the weight of this basis and locking all other parameters. Empowered by the proposed celeb basis, the new identity in our customized model showcases a better concept combination ability than previous personalization methods. Besides, our model can also learn several new identities at once and interact with each other where the previous customization model fails to. The code will be released. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Make-Your-Video: Customized Video Generation Using Textual and  Structural Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00943  
**Abstract:** Creating a vivid video from the event or scenario in our imagination is a truly fascinating experience. Recent advancements in text-to-video synthesis have unveiled the potential to achieve this with prompts only. While text is convenient in conveying the overall scene context, it may be insufficient to control precisely. In this paper, we explore customized video generation by utilizing text as context description and motion structure (e.g. frame-wise depth) as concrete guidance. Our method, dubbed Make-Your-Video, involves joint-conditional video generation using a Latent Diffusion Model that is pre-trained for still image synthesis and then promoted for video generation with the introduction of temporal modules. This two-stage learning scheme not only reduces the computing resources required, but also improves the performance by transferring the rich concepts available in image datasets solely into video generation. Moreover, we use a simple yet effective causal attention mask strategy to enable longer video synthesis, which mitigates the potential quality degradation effectively. Experimental results show the superiority of our method over existing baselines, particularly in terms of temporal coherence and fidelity to users' guidance. In addition, our model enables several intriguing applications that demonstrate potential for practical usage. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Exposing Attention Glitches with Flip-Flop Language Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00946  
**Abstract:** Why do large language models sometimes output factual inaccuracies and exhibit erroneous reasoning? The brittleness of these models, particularly when executing long chains of reasoning, currently seems to be an inevitable price to pay for their advanced capabilities of coherently synthesizing knowledge, pragmatics, and abstract thought. Towards making sense of this fundamentally unsolved problem, this work identifies and analyzes the phenomenon of attention glitches, in which the Transformer architecture's inductive biases intermittently fail to capture robust reasoning. To isolate the issue, we introduce flip-flop language modeling (FFLM), a parametric family of synthetic benchmarks designed to probe the extrapolative behavior of neural language models. This simple generative task requires a model to copy binary symbols over long-range dependencies, ignoring the tokens in between. We find that Transformer FFLMs suffer from a long tail of sporadic reasoning errors, some of which we can eliminate using various regularization techniques. Our preliminary mechanistic analyses show why the remaining errors may be very difficult to diagnose and resolve. We hypothesize that attention glitches account for (some of) the closed-domain hallucinations in natural LLMs. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** EEL: Efficiently Encoding Lattices for Reranking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00947  
**Abstract:** Standard decoding approaches for conditional text generation tasks typically search for an output hypothesis with high model probability, but this may not yield the best hypothesis according to human judgments of quality. Reranking to optimize for "downstream" metrics can better optimize for quality, but many metrics of interest are computed with pre-trained language models, which are slow to apply to large numbers of hypotheses. We explore an approach for reranking hypotheses by using Transformers to efficiently encode lattices of generated outputs, a method we call EEL. With a single Transformer pass over the entire lattice, we can approximately compute a contextualized representation of each token as if it were only part of a single hypothesis in isolation. We combine this approach with a new class of token-factored rerankers (TFRs) that allow for efficient extraction of high reranker-scoring hypotheses from the lattice. Empirically, our approach incurs minimal degradation error compared to the exponentially slower approach of encoding each hypothesis individually. When applying EEL with TFRs across three text generation tasks, our results show both substantial speedup compared to naive reranking and often better performance on downstream metrics than comparable approaches. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Differential Diffusion: Giving Each Pixel Its Strength  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00950  
**Abstract:** Text-based image editing has advanced significantly in recent years. With the rise of diffusion models, image editing via textual instructions has become ubiquitous. Unfortunately, current models lack the ability to customize the quantity of the change per pixel or per image fragment, resorting to changing the entire image in an equal amount, or editing a specific region using a binary mask. In this paper, we suggest a new framework which enables the user to customize the quantity of change for each image fragment, thereby enhancing the flexibility and verbosity of modern diffusion models. Our framework does not require model training or fine-tuning, but instead performs everything at inference time, making it easily applicable to an existing model. We show both qualitatively and quantitatively that our method allows better controllability and can produce results which are unattainable by existing models. Our code is available at: https://github.com/exx8/differential-diffusion 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Cocktail: Mixing Multi-Modality Controls for Text-Conditional Image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00964  
**Abstract:** Text-conditional diffusion models are able to generate high-fidelity images with diverse contents. However, linguistic representations frequently exhibit ambiguous descriptions of the envisioned objective imagery, requiring the incorporation of additional control signals to bolster the efficacy of text-guided diffusion models. In this work, we propose Cocktail, a pipeline to mix various modalities into one embedding, amalgamated with a generalized ControlNet (gControlNet), a controllable normalisation (ControlNorm), and a spatial guidance sampling method, to actualize multi-modal and spatially-refined control for text-conditional diffusion models. Specifically, we introduce a hyper-network gControlNet, dedicated to the alignment and infusion of the control signals from disparate modalities into the pre-trained diffusion model. gControlNet is capable of accepting flexible modality signals, encompassing the simultaneous reception of any combination of modality signals, or the supplementary fusion of multiple modality signals. The control signals are then fused and injected into the backbone model according to our proposed ControlNorm. Furthermore, our advanced spatial guidance sampling methodology proficiently incorporates the control signal into the designated region, thereby circumventing the manifestation of undesired objects within the generated image. We demonstrate the results of our method in controlling various modalities, proving high-quality synthesis and fidelity to multiple external signals. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** The Hidden Language of Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00966  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models have demonstrated an unparalleled ability to generate high-quality, diverse images from a textual concept (e.g., "a doctor", "love"). However, the internal process of mapping text to a rich visual representation remains an enigma. In this work, we tackle the challenge of understanding concept representations in text-to-image models by decomposing an input text prompt into a small set of interpretable elements. This is achieved by learning a pseudo-token that is a sparse weighted combination of tokens from the model's vocabulary, with the objective of reconstructing the images generated for the given concept. Applied over the state-of-the-art Stable Diffusion model, this decomposition reveals non-trivial and surprising structures in the representations of concepts. For example, we find that some concepts such as "a president" or "a composer" are dominated by specific instances (e.g., "Obama", "Biden") and their interpolations. Other concepts, such as "happiness" combine associated terms that can be concrete ("family", "laughter") or abstract ("friendship", "emotion"). In addition to peering into the inner workings of Stable Diffusion, our method also enables applications such as single-image decomposition to tokens, bias detection and mitigation, and semantic image manipulation. Our code will be available at: https://hila-chefer.github.io/Conceptor/ 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** ViCo: Detail-Preserving Visual Condition for Personalized Text-to-Image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00971  
**Abstract:** Personalized text-to-image generation using diffusion models has recently been proposed and attracted lots of attention. Given a handful of images containing a novel concept (e.g., a unique toy), we aim to tune the generative model to capture fine visual details of the novel concept and generate photorealistic images following a text condition. We present a plug-in method, named ViCo, for fast and lightweight personalized generation. Specifically, we propose an image attention module to condition the diffusion process on the patch-wise visual semantics. We introduce an attention-based object mask that comes almost at no cost from the attention module. In addition, we design a simple regularization based on the intrinsic properties of text-image attention maps to alleviate the common overfitting degradation. Unlike many existing models, our method does not finetune any parameters of the original diffusion model. This allows more flexible and transferable model deployment. With only light parameter training (~6% of the diffusion U-Net), our method achieves comparable or even better performance than all state-of-the-art models both qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Intelligent Grimm -- Open-ended Visual Storytelling via Latent Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00973  
**Abstract:** Generative models have recently exhibited exceptional capabilities in various scenarios, for example, image generation based on text description. In this work, we focus on the task of generating a series of coherent image sequence based on a given storyline, denoted as open-ended visual storytelling. We make the following three contributions: (i) to fulfill the task of visual storytelling, we introduce two modules into a pre-trained stable diffusion model, and construct an auto-regressive image generator, termed as StoryGen, that enables to generate the current frame by conditioning on both a text prompt and a preceding frame; (ii) to train our proposed model, we collect paired image and text samples by sourcing from various online sources, such as videos, E-books, and establish a data processing pipeline for constructing a diverse dataset, named StorySalon, with a far larger vocabulary than existing animation-specific datasets; (iii) we adopt a three-stage curriculum training strategy, that enables style transfer, visual context conditioning, and human feedback alignment, respectively. Quantitative experiments and human evaluation have validated the superiority of our proposed model, in terms of image quality, style consistency, content consistency, and visual-language alignment. We will make the code, model, and dataset publicly available to the research community. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Intriguing Properties of Text-guided Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00974  
**Abstract:** Text-guided diffusion models (TDMs) are widely applied but can fail unexpectedly. Common failures include: (i) natural-looking text prompts generating images with the wrong content, or (ii) different random samples of the latent variables that generate vastly different, and even unrelated, outputs despite being conditioned on the same text prompt. In this work, we aim to study and understand the failure modes of TDMs in more detail. To achieve this, we propose SAGE, an adversarial attack on TDMs that uses image classifiers as surrogate loss functions, to search over the discrete prompt space and the high-dimensional latent space of TDMs to automatically discover unexpected behaviors and failure cases in the image generation. We make several technical contributions to ensure that SAGE finds failure cases of the diffusion model, rather than the classifier, and verify this in a human study. Our study reveals four intriguing properties of TDMs that have not been systematically studied before: (1) We find a variety of natural text prompts producing images that fail to capture the semantics of input texts. We categorize these failures into ten distinct types based on the underlying causes. (2) We find samples in the latent space (which are not outliers) that lead to distorted images independent of the text prompt, suggesting that parts of the latent space are not well-structured. (3) We also find latent samples that lead to natural-looking images which are unrelated to the text prompt, implying a potential misalignment between the latent and prompt spaces. (4) By appending a single adversarial token embedding to an input prompt we can generate a variety of specified target objects, while only minimally affecting the CLIP score. This demonstrates the fragility of language representations and raises potential safety concerns. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** TopEx: Topic-based Explanations for Model Comparison  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00976  
**Abstract:** Meaningfully comparing language models is challenging with current explanation methods. Current explanations are overwhelming for humans due to large vocabularies or incomparable across models. We present TopEx, an explanation method that enables a level playing field for comparing language models via model-agnostic topics. We demonstrate how TopEx can identify similarities and differences between DistilRoBERTa and GPT-2 on a variety of NLP tasks. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** SnapFusion: Text-to-Image Diffusion Model on Mobile Devices within Two  Seconds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00980  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models can create stunning images from natural language descriptions that rival the work of professional artists and photographers. However, these models are large, with complex network architectures and tens of denoising iterations, making them computationally expensive and slow to run. As a result, high-end GPUs and cloud-based inference are required to run diffusion models at scale. This is costly and has privacy implications, especially when user data is sent to a third party. To overcome these challenges, we present a generic approach that, for the first time, unlocks running text-to-image diffusion models on mobile devices in less than $2$ seconds. We achieve so by introducing efficient network architecture and improving step distillation. Specifically, we propose an efficient UNet by identifying the redundancy of the original model and reducing the computation of the image decoder via data distillation. Further, we enhance the step distillation by exploring training strategies and introducing regularization from classifier-free guidance. Our extensive experiments on MS-COCO show that our model with $8$ denoising steps achieves better FID and CLIP scores than Stable Diffusion v$1.5$ with $50$ steps. Our work democratizes content creation by bringing powerful text-to-image diffusion models to the hands of users. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** StyleDrop: Text-to-Image Generation in Any Style  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00983  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained large text-to-image models synthesize impressive images with an appropriate use of text prompts. However, ambiguities inherent in natural language and out-of-distribution effects make it hard to synthesize image styles, that leverage a specific design pattern, texture or material. In this paper, we introduce StyleDrop, a method that enables the synthesis of images that faithfully follow a specific style using a text-to-image model. The proposed method is extremely versatile and captures nuances and details of a user-provided style, such as color schemes, shading, design patterns, and local and global effects. It efficiently learns a new style by fine-tuning very few trainable parameters (less than $1\%$ of total model parameters) and improving the quality via iterative training with either human or automated feedback. Better yet, StyleDrop is able to deliver impressive results even when the user supplies only a single image that specifies the desired style. An extensive study shows that, for the task of style tuning text-to-image models, StyleDrop implemented on Muse convincingly outperforms other methods, including DreamBooth and textual inversion on Imagen or Stable Diffusion. More results are available at our project website: https://styledrop.github.io 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** StableRep: Synthetic Images from Text-to-Image Models Make Strong Visual  Representation Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00984  
**Abstract:** We investigate the potential of learning visual representations using synthetic images generated by text-to-image models. This is a natural question in the light of the excellent performance of such models in generating high-quality images. We consider specifically the Stable Diffusion, one of the leading open source text-to-image models. We show that (1) when the generative model is configured with proper classifier-free guidance scale, training self-supervised methods on synthetic images can match or beat the real image counterpart; (2) by treating the multiple images generated from the same text prompt as positives for each other, we develop a multi-positive contrastive learning method, which we call StableRep. With solely synthetic images, the representations learned by StableRep surpass the performance of representations learned by SimCLR and CLIP using the same set of text prompts and corresponding real images, on large scale datasets. When we further add language supervision, StableRep trained with 20M synthetic images achieves better accuracy than CLIP trained with 50M real images. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Diffusion Self-Guidance for Controllable Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00986  
**Abstract:** Large-scale generative models are capable of producing high-quality images from detailed text descriptions. However, many aspects of an image are difficult or impossible to convey through text. We introduce self-guidance, a method that provides greater control over generated images by guiding the internal representations of diffusion models. We demonstrate that properties such as the shape, location, and appearance of objects can be extracted from these representations and used to steer sampling. Self-guidance works similarly to classifier guidance, but uses signals present in the pretrained model itself, requiring no additional models or training. We show how a simple set of properties can be composed to perform challenging image manipulations, such as modifying the position or size of objects, merging the appearance of objects in one image with the layout of another, composing objects from many images into one, and more. We also show that self-guidance can be used to edit real images. For results and an interactive demo, see our project page at https://dave.ml/selfguidance/ 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** StyleGAN knows Normal, Depth, Albedo, and More  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00987  
**Abstract:** Intrinsic images, in the original sense, are image-like maps of scene properties like depth, normal, albedo or shading. This paper demonstrates that StyleGAN can easily be induced to produce intrinsic images. The procedure is straightforward. We show that, if StyleGAN produces $G({w})$ from latents ${w}$, then for each type of intrinsic image, there is a fixed offset ${d}_c$ so that $G({w}+{d}_c)$ is that type of intrinsic image for $G({w})$. Here ${d}_c$ is {\em independent of ${w}$}. The StyleGAN we used was pretrained by others, so this property is not some accident of our training regime. We show that there are image transformations StyleGAN will {\em not} produce in this fashion, so StyleGAN is not a generic image regression engine. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** Hiera: A Hierarchical Vision Transformer without the Bells-and-Whistles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00989  
**Abstract:** Modern hierarchical vision transformers have added several vision-specific components in the pursuit of supervised classification performance. While these components lead to effective accuracies and attractive FLOP counts, the added complexity actually makes these transformers slower than their vanilla ViT counterparts. In this paper, we argue that this additional bulk is unnecessary. By pretraining with a strong visual pretext task (MAE), we can strip out all the bells-and-whistles from a state-of-the-art multi-stage vision transformer without losing accuracy. In the process, we create Hiera, an extremely simple hierarchical vision transformer that is more accurate than previous models while being significantly faster both at inference and during training. We evaluate Hiera on a variety of tasks for image and video recognition. Our code and models are available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/hiera. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Diagnosis and Prognosis of Head and Neck Cancer Patients using  Artificial Intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00034  
**Abstract:** Cancer is one of the most life-threatening diseases worldwide, and head and neck (H&N) cancer is a prevalent type with hundreds of thousands of new cases recorded each year. Clinicians use medical imaging modalities such as computed tomography and positron emission tomography to detect the presence of a tumor, and they combine that information with clinical data for patient prognosis. The process is mostly challenging and time-consuming. Machine learning and deep learning can automate these tasks to help clinicians with highly promising results. This work studies two approaches for H&N tumor segmentation: (i) exploration and comparison of vision transformer (ViT)-based and convolutional neural network-based models; and (ii) proposal of a novel 2D perspective to working with 3D data. Furthermore, this work proposes two new architectures for the prognosis task. An ensemble of several models predicts patient outcomes (which won the HECKTOR 2021 challenge prognosis task), and a ViT-based framework concurrently performs patient outcome prediction and tumor segmentation, which outperforms the ensemble model. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** On the Equivalence of Consistency-Type Models: Consistency Models,  Consistent Diffusion Models, and Fokker-Planck Regularization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00367  
**Abstract:** The emergence of various notions of ``consistency'' in diffusion models has garnered considerable attention and helped achieve improved sample quality, likelihood estimation, and accelerated sampling. Although similar concepts have been proposed in the literature, the precise relationships among them remain unclear. In this study, we establish theoretical connections between three recent ``consistency'' notions designed to enhance diffusion models for distinct objectives. Our insights offer the potential for a more comprehensive and encompassing framework for consistency-type models. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** Improving Protein-peptide Interface Predictions in the Low Data Regime  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00557  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel approach for predicting protein-peptide interactions using a bi-modal transformer architecture that learns an inter-facial joint distribution of residual contacts. The current data sets for crystallized protein-peptide complexes are limited, making it difficult to accurately predict interactions between proteins and peptides. To address this issue, we propose augmenting the existing data from PepBDB with pseudo protein-peptide complexes derived from the PDB. The augmented data set acts as a method to transfer physics-based contextdependent intra-residue (within a domain) interactions to the inter-residual (between) domains. We show that the distributions of inter-facial residue-residue interactions share overlap with inter residue-residue interactions, enough to increase predictive power of our bi-modal transformer architecture. In addition, this dataaugmentation allows us to leverage the vast amount of protein-only data available in the PDB to train neural networks, in contrast to template-based modeling that acts as a prior 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** Data Interpolants -- That's What Discriminators in Higher-order  Gradient-regularized GANs Are  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00785  
**Abstract:** We consider the problem of optimizing the discriminator in generative adversarial networks (GANs) subject to higher-order gradient regularization. We show analytically, via the least-squares (LSGAN) and Wasserstein (WGAN) GAN variants, that the discriminator optimization problem is one of interpolation in $n$-dimensions. The optimal discriminator, derived using variational Calculus, turns out to be the solution to a partial differential equation involving the iterated Laplacian or the polyharmonic operator. The solution is implementable in closed-form via polyharmonic radial basis function (RBF) interpolation. In view of the polyharmonic connection, we refer to the corresponding GANs as Poly-LSGAN and Poly-WGAN. Through experimental validation on multivariate Gaussians, we show that implementing the optimal RBF discriminator in closed-form, with penalty orders $m \approx\lceil \frac{n}{2} \rceil $, results in superior performance, compared to training GAN with arbitrarily chosen discriminator architectures. We employ the Poly-WGAN discriminator to model the latent space distribution of the data with encoder-decoder-based GAN flavors such as Wasserstein autoencoders. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** Birth of a Transformer: A Memory Viewpoint  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00802  
**Abstract:** Large language models based on transformers have achieved great empirical successes. However, as they are deployed more widely, there is a growing need to better understand their internal mechanisms in order to make them more reliable. These models appear to store vast amounts of knowledge from their training data, and to adapt quickly to new information provided in their context or prompt. We study how transformers balance these two types of knowledge by considering a synthetic setup where tokens are generated from either global or context-specific bigram distributions. By a careful empirical analysis of the training process on a simplified two-layer transformer, we illustrate the fast learning of global bigrams and the slower development of an "induction head" mechanism for the in-context bigrams. We highlight the role of weight matrices as associative memories, provide theoretical insights on how gradients enable their learning during training, and study the role of data-distributional properties. 

**ID:** 94  
**Title:** Spatio-Angular Convolutions for Super-resolution in Diffusion MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00854  
**Abstract:** Diffusion MRI (dMRI) is a widely used imaging modality, but requires long scanning times to acquire high resolution datasets. By leveraging the unique geometry present within this domain, we present a novel approach to dMRI angular super-resolution that extends upon the parametric continuous convolution (PCConv) framework. We introduce several additions to the operation including a Fourier feature mapping, global coordinates, and domain specific context. Using this framework, we build a fully parametric continuous convolution network (PCCNN) and compare against existing models. We demonstrate the PCCNN performs competitively while using significantly less parameters. Moreover, we show that this formulation generalises well to clinically relevant downstream analyses such as fixel-based analysis, and neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging. 

**ID:** 95  
**Title:** Using generative AI to investigate medical imagery models and datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00985  
**Abstract:** AI models have shown promise in many medical imaging tasks. However, our ability to explain what signals these models have learned is severely lacking. Explanations are needed in order to increase the trust in AI-based models, and could enable novel scientific discovery by uncovering signals in the data that are not yet known to experts. In this paper, we present a method for automatic visual explanations leveraging team-based expertise by generating hypotheses of what visual signals in the images are correlated with the task. We propose the following 4 steps: (i) Train a classifier to perform a given task (ii) Train a classifier guided StyleGAN-based image generator (StylEx) (iii) Automatically detect and visualize the top visual attributes that the classifier is sensitive towards (iv) Formulate hypotheses for the underlying mechanisms, to stimulate future research. Specifically, we present the discovered attributes to an interdisciplinary panel of experts so that hypotheses can account for social and structural determinants of health. We demonstrate results on eight prediction tasks across three medical imaging modalities: retinal fundus photographs, external eye photographs, and chest radiographs. We showcase examples of attributes that capture clinically known features, confounders that arise from factors beyond physiological mechanisms, and reveal a number of physiologically plausible novel attributes. Our approach has the potential to enable researchers to better understand, improve their assessment, and extract new knowledge from AI-based models. Importantly, we highlight that attributes generated by our framework can capture phenomena beyond physiology or pathophysiology, reflecting the real world nature of healthcare delivery and socio-cultural factors. Finally, we intend to release code to enable researchers to train their own StylEx models and analyze their predictive tasks. 

**ID:** 96  
**Title:** Continual Learning for Abdominal Multi-Organ and Tumor Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.00988  
**Abstract:** The ability to dynamically extend a model to new data and classes is critical for multiple organ and tumor segmentation. However, due to privacy regulations, accessing previous data and annotations can be problematic in the medical domain. This poses a significant barrier to preserving the high segmentation accuracy of the old classes when learning from new classes because of the catastrophic forgetting problem. In this paper, we first empirically demonstrate that simply using high-quality pseudo labels can fairly mitigate this problem in the setting of organ segmentation. Furthermore, we put forward an innovative architecture designed specifically for continuous organ and tumor segmentation, which incurs minimal computational overhead. Our proposed design involves replacing the conventional output layer with a suite of lightweight, class-specific heads, thereby offering the flexibility to accommodate newly emerging classes. These heads enable independent predictions for newly introduced and previously learned classes, effectively minimizing the impact of new classes on old ones during the course of continual learning. We further propose incorporating Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining (CLIP) embeddings into the organ-specific heads. These embeddings encapsulate the semantic information of each class, informed by extensive image-text co-training. The proposed method is evaluated on both in-house and public abdominal CT datasets under organ and tumor segmentation tasks. Empirical results suggest that the proposed design improves the segmentation performance of a baseline neural network on newly-introduced and previously-learned classes along the learning trajectory. 

