**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Efficient Deep Spiking Multi-Layer Perceptrons with Multiplication-Free  Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12465  
**Abstract:** Advancements in adapting deep convolution architectures for Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) have significantly enhanced image classification performance and reduced computational burdens. However, the inability of Multiplication-Free Inference (MFI) to harmonize with attention and transformer mechanisms, which are critical to superior performance on high-resolution vision tasks, imposes limitations on these gains. To address this, our research explores a new pathway, drawing inspiration from the progress made in Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs). We propose an innovative spiking MLP architecture that uses batch normalization to retain MFI compatibility and introduces a spiking patch encoding layer to reinforce local feature extraction capabilities. As a result, we establish an efficient multi-stage spiking MLP network that effectively blends global receptive fields with local feature extraction for comprehensive spike-based computation. Without relying on pre-training or sophisticated SNN training techniques, our network secures a top-1 accuracy of 66.39% on the ImageNet-1K dataset, surpassing the directly trained spiking ResNet-34 by 2.67%. Furthermore, we curtail computational costs, model capacity, and simulation steps. An expanded version of our network challenges the performance of the spiking VGG-16 network with a 71.64% top-1 accuracy, all while operating with a model capacity 2.1 times smaller. Our findings accentuate the potential of our deep SNN architecture in seamlessly integrating global and local learning abilities. Interestingly, the trained receptive field in our network mirrors the activity patterns of cortical cells. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Deep Language Networks: Joint Prompt Training of Stacked LLMs using  Variational Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12509  
**Abstract:** We view large language models (LLMs) as stochastic \emph{language layers} in a network, where the learnable parameters are the natural language \emph{prompts} at each layer. We stack two such layers, feeding the output of one layer to the next. We call the stacked architecture a \emph{Deep Language Network} (DLN). We first show how to effectively perform prompt optimization for a 1-Layer language network (DLN-1). We then show how to train 2-layer DLNs (DLN-2), where two prompts must be learnt. We consider the output of the first layer as a latent variable to marginalize, and devise a variational inference algorithm for joint prompt training. A DLN-2 reaches higher performance than a single layer, sometimes comparable to few-shot GPT-4 even when each LLM in the network is smaller and less powerful. The DLN code is open source: https://github.com/microsoft/deep-language-networks . 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Semi-Implicit Denoising Diffusion Models (SIDDMs)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12511  
**Abstract:** Despite the proliferation of generative models, achieving fast sampling during inference without compromising sample diversity and quality remains challenging. Existing models such as Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) deliver high-quality, diverse samples but are slowed by an inherently high number of iterative steps. The Denoising Diffusion Generative Adversarial Networks (DDGAN) attempted to circumvent this limitation by integrating a GAN model for larger jumps in the diffusion process. However, DDGAN encountered scalability limitations when applied to large datasets. To address these limitations, we introduce a novel approach that tackles the problem by matching implicit and explicit factors. More specifically, our approach involves utilizing an implicit model to match the marginal distributions of noisy data and the explicit conditional distribution of the forward diffusion. This combination allows us to effectively match the joint denoising distributions. Unlike DDPM but similar to DDGAN, we do not enforce a parametric distribution for the reverse step, enabling us to take large steps during inference. Similar to the DDPM but unlike DDGAN, we take advantage of the exact form of the diffusion process. We demonstrate that our proposed method obtains comparable generative performance to diffusion-based models and vastly superior results to models with a small number of sampling steps. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** LPFormer: LiDAR Pose Estimation Transformer with Multi-Task Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12525  
**Abstract:** In this technical report, we present the 1st place solution for the 2023 Waymo Open Dataset Pose Estimation challenge. Due to the difficulty of acquiring large-scale 3D human keypoint annotation, previous methods have commonly relied on 2D image features and 2D sequential annotations for 3D human pose estimation. In contrast, our proposed method, named LPFormer, uses only LiDAR as its input along with its corresponding 3D annotations. LPFormer consists of two stages: the first stage detects the human bounding box and extracts multi-level feature representations, while the second stage employs a transformer-based network to regress the human keypoints using these features. Experimental results on the Waymo Open Dataset demonstrate the top performance, and improvements even compared to previous multi-modal solutions. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Improving Long-Horizon Imitation Through Instruction Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12554  
**Abstract:** Complex, long-horizon planning and its combinatorial nature pose steep challenges for learning-based agents. Difficulties in such settings are exacerbated in low data regimes where over-fitting stifles generalization and compounding errors hurt accuracy. In this work, we explore the use of an often unused source of auxiliary supervision: language. Inspired by recent advances in transformer-based models, we train agents with an instruction prediction loss that encourages learning temporally extended representations that operate at a high level of abstraction. Concretely, we demonstrate that instruction modeling significantly improves performance in planning environments when training with a limited number of demonstrations on the BabyAI and Crafter benchmarks. In further analysis we find that instruction modeling is most important for tasks that require complex reasoning, while understandably offering smaller gains in environments that require simple plans. More details and code can be found at https://github.com/jhejna/instruction-prediction. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Local 3D Editing via 3D Distillation of CLIP Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12570  
**Abstract:** 3D content manipulation is an important computer vision task with many real-world applications (e.g., product design, cartoon generation, and 3D Avatar editing). Recently proposed 3D GANs can generate diverse photorealistic 3D-aware contents using Neural Radiance fields (NeRF). However, manipulation of NeRF still remains a challenging problem since the visual quality tends to degrade after manipulation and suboptimal control handles such as 2D semantic maps are used for manipulations. While text-guided manipulations have shown potential in 3D editing, such approaches often lack locality. To overcome these problems, we propose Local Editing NeRF (LENeRF), which only requires text inputs for fine-grained and localized manipulation. Specifically, we present three add-on modules of LENeRF, the Latent Residual Mapper, the Attention Field Network, and the Deformation Network, which are jointly used for local manipulations of 3D features by estimating a 3D attention field. The 3D attention field is learned in an unsupervised way, by distilling the zero-shot mask generation capability of CLIP to the 3D space with multi-view guidance. We conduct diverse experiments and thorough evaluations both quantitatively and qualitatively. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** ARIES: A Corpus of Scientific Paper Edits Made in Response to Peer  Reviews  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12587  
**Abstract:** Revising scientific papers based on peer feedback is a challenging task that requires not only deep scientific knowledge and reasoning, but also the ability to recognize the implicit requests in high-level feedback and to choose the best of many possible ways to update the manuscript in response. We introduce this task for large language models and release ARIES, a dataset of review comments and their corresponding paper edits, to enable training and evaluating models. We study two versions of the task: comment-edit alignment and edit generation, and evaluate several baselines, including GPT-4. We find that models struggle even to identify the edits that correspond to a comment, especially in cases where the comment is phrased in an indirect way or where the edit addresses the spirit of a comment but not the precise request. When tasked with generating edits, GPT-4 often succeeds in addressing comments on a surface level, but it rigidly follows the wording of the feedback rather than the underlying intent, and includes fewer technical details than human-written edits. We hope that our formalization, dataset, and analysis will form a foundation for future work in this area. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** 1st Place Solution to MultiEarth 2023 Challenge on Multimodal SAR-to-EO  Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12626  
**Abstract:** The Multimodal Learning for Earth and Environment Workshop (MultiEarth 2023) aims to harness the substantial amount of remote sensing data gathered over extensive periods for the monitoring and analysis of Earth's ecosystems'health. The subtask, Multimodal SAR-to-EO Image Translation, involves the use of robust SAR data, even under adverse weather and lighting conditions, transforming it into high-quality, clear, and visually appealing EO data. In the context of the SAR2EO task, the presence of clouds or obstructions in EO data can potentially pose a challenge. To address this issue, we propose the Clean Collector Algorithm (CCA), designed to take full advantage of this cloudless SAR data and eliminate factors that may hinder the data learning process. Subsequently, we applied pix2pixHD for the SAR-to-EO translation and Restormer for image enhancement. In the final evaluation, the team 'CDRL' achieved an MAE of 0.07313, securing the top rank on the leaderboard. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** TaCA: Upgrading Your Visual Foundation Model with Task-agnostic  Compatible Adapter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12642  
**Abstract:** Visual foundation models like CLIP excel in learning feature representations from extensive datasets through self-supervised methods, demonstrating remarkable transfer learning and generalization capabilities. A growing number of applications based on visual foundation models are emerging, including innovative solutions such as BLIP-2. These applications employ pre-trained CLIP models as upstream feature extractors and train various downstream modules to accomplish diverse tasks. In situations involving system upgrades that require updating the upstream foundation model, it becomes essential to re-train all downstream modules to adapt to the new foundation model, which is inflexible and inefficient. In this paper, we introduce a parameter-efficient and task-agnostic adapter, dubbed TaCA, that facilitates compatibility across distinct foundation models while ensuring enhanced performance for the new models. TaCA allows downstream applications to seamlessly integrate better-performing foundation models without necessitating retraining. We conduct extensive experimental validation of TaCA using different scales of models with up to one billion parameters on various tasks such as video-text retrieval, video recognition, and visual question answering. The results consistently demonstrate the emergent ability of TaCA on hot-plugging upgrades for visual foundation models. Codes and models will be available at https://github.com/TencentARC/TaCA. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Identifying and Extracting Rare Disease Phenotypes with Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12656  
**Abstract:** Rare diseases (RDs) are collectively common and affect 300 million people worldwide. Accurate phenotyping is critical for informing diagnosis and treatment, but RD phenotypes are often embedded in unstructured text and time-consuming to extract manually. While natural language processing (NLP) models can perform named entity recognition (NER) to automate extraction, a major bottleneck is the development of a large, annotated corpus for model training. Recently, prompt learning emerged as an NLP paradigm that can lead to more generalizable results without any (zero-shot) or few labeled samples (few-shot). Despite growing interest in ChatGPT, a revolutionary large language model capable of following complex human prompts and generating high-quality responses, none have studied its NER performance for RDs in the zero- and few-shot settings. To this end, we engineered novel prompts aimed at extracting RD phenotypes and, to the best of our knowledge, are the first the establish a benchmark for evaluating ChatGPT's performance in these settings. We compared its performance to the traditional fine-tuning approach and conducted an in-depth error analysis. Overall, fine-tuning BioClinicalBERT resulted in higher performance (F1 of 0.689) than ChatGPT (F1 of 0.472 and 0.591 in the zero- and few-shot settings, respectively). Despite this, ChatGPT achieved similar or higher accuracy for certain entities (i.e., rare diseases and signs) in the one-shot setting (F1 of 0.776 and 0.725). This suggests that with appropriate prompt engineering, ChatGPT has the potential to match or outperform fine-tuned language models for certain entity types with just one labeled sample. While the proliferation of large language models may provide opportunities for supporting RD diagnosis and treatment, researchers and clinicians should critically evaluate model outputs and be well-informed of their limitations. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Instruct-FinGPT: Financial Sentiment Analysis by Instruction Tuning of  General-Purpose Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12659  
**Abstract:** Sentiment analysis is a vital tool for uncovering insights from financial articles, news, and social media, shaping our understanding of market movements. Despite the impressive capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in financial natural language processing (NLP), they still struggle with accurately interpreting numerical values and grasping financial context, limiting their effectiveness in predicting financial sentiment. In this paper, we introduce a simple yet effective instruction tuning approach to address these issues. By transforming a small portion of supervised financial sentiment analysis data into instruction data and fine-tuning a general-purpose LLM with this method, we achieve remarkable advancements in financial sentiment analysis. In the experiment, our approach outperforms state-of-the-art supervised sentiment analysis models, as well as widely used LLMs like ChatGPT and LLaMAs, particularly in scenarios where numerical understanding and contextual comprehension are vital. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** SoftGPT: Learn Goal-oriented Soft Object Manipulation Skills by  Generative Pre-trained Heterogeneous Graph Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12677  
**Abstract:** Soft object manipulation tasks in domestic scenes pose a significant challenge for existing robotic skill learning techniques due to their complex dynamics and variable shape characteristics. Since learning new manipulation skills from human demonstration is an effective way for robot applications, developing prior knowledge of the representation and dynamics of soft objects is necessary. In this regard, we propose a pre-trained soft object manipulation skill learning model, namely SoftGPT, that is trained using large amounts of exploration data, consisting of a three-dimensional heterogeneous graph representation and a GPT-based dynamics model. For each downstream task, a goal-oriented policy agent is trained to predict the subsequent actions, and SoftGPT generates the consequences of these actions. Integrating these two approaches establishes a thinking process in the robot's mind that provides rollout for facilitating policy learning. Our results demonstrate that leveraging prior knowledge through this thinking process can efficiently learn various soft object manipulation skills, with the potential for direct learning from human demonstrations. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** One at A Time: Multi-step Volumetric Probability Distribution Diffusion  for Depth Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12681  
**Abstract:** Recent works have explored the fundamental role of depth estimation in multi-view stereo (MVS) and semantic scene completion (SSC). They generally construct 3D cost volumes to explore geometric correspondence in depth, and estimate such volumes in a single step relying directly on the ground truth approximation. However, such problem cannot be thoroughly handled in one step due to complex empirical distributions, especially in challenging regions like occlusions, reflections, etc. In this paper, we formulate the depth estimation task as a multi-step distribution approximation process, and introduce a new paradigm of modeling the Volumetric Probability Distribution progressively (step-by-step) following a Markov chain with Diffusion models (VPDD). Specifically, to constrain the multi-step generation of volume in VPDD, we construct a meta volume guidance and a confidence-aware contextual guidance as conditional geometry priors to facilitate the distribution approximation. For the sampling process, we further investigate an online filtering strategy to maintain consistency in volume representations for stable training. Experiments demonstrate that our plug-and-play VPDD outperforms the state-of-the-arts for tasks of MVS and SSC, and can also be easily extended to different baselines to get improvement. It is worth mentioning that we are the first camera-based work that surpasses LiDAR-based methods on the SemanticKITTI dataset. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** FlowFace++: Explicit Semantic Flow-supervised End-to-End Face Swapping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12686  
**Abstract:** This work proposes a novel face-swapping framework FlowFace++, utilizing explicit semantic flow supervision and end-to-end architecture to facilitate shape-aware face-swapping. Specifically, our work pretrains a facial shape discriminator to supervise the face swapping network. The discriminator is shape-aware and relies on a semantic flow-guided operation to explicitly calculate the shape discrepancies between the target and source faces, thus optimizing the face swapping network to generate highly realistic results. The face swapping network is a stack of a pre-trained face-masked autoencoder (MAE), a cross-attention fusion module, and a convolutional decoder. The MAE provides a fine-grained facial image representation space, which is unified for the target and source faces and thus facilitates final realistic results. The cross-attention fusion module carries out the source-to-target face swapping in a fine-grained latent space while preserving other attributes of the target image (e.g. expression, head pose, hair, background, illumination, etc). Lastly, the convolutional decoder further synthesizes the swapping results according to the face-swapping latent embedding from the cross-attention fusion module. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments on in-the-wild faces demonstrate that our FlowFace++ outperforms the state-of-the-art significantly, particularly while the source face is obstructed by uneven lighting or angle offset. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Blended-NeRF: Zero-Shot Object Generation and Blending in Existing  Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12760  
**Abstract:** Editing a local region or a specific object in a 3D scene represented by a NeRF is challenging, mainly due to the implicit nature of the scene representation. Consistently blending a new realistic object into the scene adds an additional level of difficulty. We present Blended-NeRF, a robust and flexible framework for editing a specific region of interest in an existing NeRF scene, based on text prompts or image patches, along with a 3D ROI box. Our method leverages a pretrained language-image model to steer the synthesis towards a user-provided text prompt or image patch, along with a 3D MLP model initialized on an existing NeRF scene to generate the object and blend it into a specified region in the original scene. We allow local editing by localizing a 3D ROI box in the input scene, and seamlessly blend the content synthesized inside the ROI with the existing scene using a novel volumetric blending technique. To obtain natural looking and view-consistent results, we leverage existing and new geometric priors and 3D augmentations for improving the visual fidelity of the final result. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** MFCCGAN: A Novel MFCC-Based Speech Synthesizer Using Adversarial  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12785  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce MFCCGAN as a novel speech synthesizer based on adversarial learning that adopts MFCCs as input and generates raw speech waveforms. Benefiting the GAN model capabilities, it produces speech with higher intelligibility than a rule-based MFCC-based speech synthesizer WORLD. We evaluated the model based on a popular intrusive objective speech intelligibility measure (STOI) and quality (NISQA score). Experimental results show that our proposed system outperforms Librosa MFCC- inversion (by an increase of about 26% up to 53% in STOI and 16% up to 78% in NISQA score) and a rise of about 10% in intelligibility and about 4% in naturalness in comparison with conventional rule-based vocoder WORLD that used in the CycleGAN-VC family. However, WORLD needs additional data like F0. Finally, using perceptual loss in discriminators based on STOI could improve the quality more. WebMUSHRA-based subjective tests also show the quality of the proposed approach. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** DiffWA: Diffusion Models for Watermark Attack  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12790  
**Abstract:** With the rapid development of deep neural networks(DNNs), many robust blind watermarking algorithms and frameworks have been proposed and achieved good results. At present, the watermark attack algorithm can not compete with the watermark addition algorithm. And many watermark attack algorithms only care about interfering with the normal extraction of the watermark, and the watermark attack will cause great visual loss to the image. To this end, we propose DiffWA, a conditional diffusion model with distance guidance for watermark attack, which can restore the image while removing the embedded watermark. The core of our method is training an image-to-image conditional diffusion model on unwatermarked images and guiding the conditional model using a distance guidance when sampling so that the model will generate unwatermarked images which is similar to original images. We conducted experiments on CIFAR-10 using our proposed models. The results shows that the model can remove the watermark with good effect and make the bit error rate of watermark extraction higher than 0.4. At the same time, the attacked image will maintain good visual effect with PSNR more than 31 and SSIM more than 0.97 compared with the original image. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** On the Construction of Near-MDS Matrices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12791  
**Abstract:** The optimal branch number of MDS matrices makes them a preferred choice for designing diffusion layers in many block ciphers and hash functions. However, in lightweight cryptography, Near-MDS (NMDS) matrices with sub-optimal branch numbers offer a better balance between security and efficiency as a diffusion layer, compared to MDS matrices. In this paper, we study NMDS matrices, exploring their construction in both recursive and nonrecursive settings. We provide several theoretical results and explore the hardware efficiency of the construction of NMDS matrices. Additionally, we make comparisons between the results of NMDS and MDS matrices whenever possible. For the recursive approach, we study the DLS matrices and provide some theoretical results on their use. Some of the results are used to restrict the search space of the DLS matrices. We also show that over a field of characteristic 2, any sparse matrix of order $n\geq 4$ with fixed XOR value of 1 cannot be an NMDS when raised to a power of $k\leq n$. Following that, we use the generalized DLS (GDLS) matrices to provide some lightweight recursive NMDS matrices of several orders that perform better than the existing matrices in terms of hardware cost or the number of iterations. For the nonrecursive construction of NMDS matrices, we study various structures, such as circulant and left-circulant matrices, and their generalizations: Toeplitz and Hankel matrices. In addition, we prove that Toeplitz matrices of order $n>4$ cannot be simultaneously NMDS and involutory over a field of characteristic 2. Finally, we use GDLS matrices to provide some lightweight NMDS matrices that can be computed in one clock cycle. The proposed nonrecursive NMDS matrices of orders 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 can be implemented with 24, 50, 65, 96, and 108 XORs over $\mathbb{F}_{2^4}$, respectively. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** On the Direct Construction of MDS and Near-MDS Matrices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12848  
**Abstract:** The optimal branch number of MDS matrices makes them a preferred choice for designing diffusion layers in many block ciphers and hash functions. Consequently, various methods have been proposed for designing MDS matrices, including search and direct methods. While exhaustive search is suitable for small order MDS matrices, direct constructions are preferred for larger orders due to the vast search space involved. In the literature, there has been extensive research on the direct construction of MDS matrices using both recursive and nonrecursive methods. On the other hand, in lightweight cryptography, Near-MDS (NMDS) matrices with sub-optimal branch numbers offer a better balance between security and efficiency as a diffusion layer compared to MDS matrices. However, no direct construction method is available in the literature for constructing recursive NMDS matrices. This paper introduces some direct constructions of NMDS matrices in both nonrecursive and recursive settings. Additionally, it presents some direct constructions of nonrecursive MDS matrices from the generalized Vandermonde matrices. We propose a method for constructing involutory MDS and NMDS matrices using generalized Vandermonde matrices. Furthermore, we prove some folklore results that are used in the literature related to the NMDS code. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Learning from Visual Observation via Offline Pretrained State-to-Go  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12860  
**Abstract:** Learning from visual observation (LfVO), aiming at recovering policies from only visual observation data, is promising yet a challenging problem. Existing LfVO approaches either only adopt inefficient online learning schemes or require additional task-specific information like goal states, making them not suited for open-ended tasks. To address these issues, we propose a two-stage framework for learning from visual observation. In the first stage, we introduce and pretrain State-to-Go (STG) Transformer offline to predict and differentiate latent transitions of demonstrations. Subsequently, in the second stage, the STG Transformer provides intrinsic rewards for downstream reinforcement learning tasks where an agent learns merely from intrinsic rewards. Empirical results on Atari and Minecraft show that our proposed method outperforms baselines and in some tasks even achieves performance comparable to the policy learned from environmental rewards. These results shed light on the potential of utilizing video-only data to solve difficult visual reinforcement learning tasks rather than relying on complete offline datasets containing states, actions, and rewards. The project's website and code can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/stgtransformer. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Cross-lingual Cross-temporal Summarization: Dataset, Models, Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12916  
**Abstract:** While summarization has been extensively researched in natural language processing (NLP), cross-lingual cross-temporal summarization (CLCTS) is a largely unexplored area that has the potential to improve cross-cultural accessibility, information sharing, and understanding. This paper comprehensively addresses the CLCTS task, including dataset creation, modeling, and evaluation. We build the first CLCTS corpus, leveraging historical fictive texts and Wikipedia summaries in English and German, and examine the effectiveness of popular transformer end-to-end models with different intermediate task finetuning tasks. Additionally, we explore the potential of ChatGPT for CLCTS as a summarizer and an evaluator. Overall, we report evaluations from humans, ChatGPT, and several recent automatic evaluation metrics where we find our intermediate task finetuned end-to-end models generate bad to moderate quality summaries; ChatGPT as a summarizer (without any finetuning) provides moderate to good quality outputs and as an evaluator correlates moderately with human evaluations though it is prone to giving lower scores. ChatGPT also seems to be very adept at normalizing historical text. We finally test ChatGPT in a scenario with adversarially attacked and unseen source documents and find that ChatGPT is better at omission and entity swap than negating against its prior knowledge. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Quantizable Transformers: Removing Outliers by Helping Attention Heads  Do Nothing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12929  
**Abstract:** Transformer models have been widely adopted in various domains over the last years, and especially large language models have advanced the field of AI significantly. Due to their size, the capability of these networks has increased tremendously, but this has come at the cost of a significant increase in necessary compute. Quantization is one of the most effective ways to reduce the computational time and memory consumption of neural networks. Many studies have shown, however, that modern transformer models tend to learn strong outliers in their activations, making them difficult to quantize. To retain acceptable performance, the existence of these outliers requires activations to be in higher bitwidth or the use of different numeric formats, extra fine-tuning, or other workarounds. We show that strong outliers are related to very specific behavior of attention heads that try to learn a "no-op" or just a partial update of the residual. To achieve the exact zeros needed in the attention matrix for a no-update, the input to the softmax is pushed to be larger and larger during training, causing outliers in other parts of the network. Based on these observations, we propose two simple (independent) modifications to the attention mechanism - clipped softmax and gated attention. We empirically show that models pre-trained using our methods learn significantly smaller outliers while maintaining and sometimes even improving the floating-point task performance. This enables us to quantize transformers to full INT8 quantization of the activations without any additional effort. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods on both language models (BERT, OPT) and vision transformers. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Tracking public attitudes toward ChatGPT on Twitter using sentiment  analysis and topic modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12951  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT sets a new record with the fastest-growing user base, as a chatbot powered by a large language model (LLM). While it demonstrates state-of-the-art capabilities in a variety of language-generating tasks, it also raises widespread public concerns regarding its societal impact. In this paper, we utilize natural language processing approaches to investigate the public attitudes towards ChatGPT by applying sentiment analysis and topic modeling techniques to Twitter data. Our result shows that the overall sentiment is largely neutral to positive, which also holds true across different occupation groups. Among a wide range of topics mentioned in tweets, the most popular topics are Artificial Intelligence, Search Engines, Education, Writing, and Question Answering. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Towards More Realistic Membership Inference Attacks on Large Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12983  
**Abstract:** Generative diffusion models, including Stable Diffusion and Midjourney, can generate visually appealing, diverse, and high-resolution images for various applications. These models are trained on billions of internet-sourced images, raising significant concerns about the potential unauthorized use of copyright-protected images. In this paper, we examine whether it is possible to determine if a specific image was used in the training set, a problem known in the cybersecurity community and referred to as a membership inference attack. Our focus is on Stable Diffusion, and we address the challenge of designing a fair evaluation framework to answer this membership question. We propose a methodology to establish a fair evaluation setup and apply it to Stable Diffusion, enabling potential extensions to other generative models. Utilizing this evaluation setup, we execute membership attacks (both known and newly introduced). Our research reveals that previously proposed evaluation setups do not provide a full understanding of the effectiveness of membership inference attacks. We conclude that the membership inference attack remains a significant challenge for large diffusion models (often deployed as black-box systems), indicating that related privacy and copyright issues will persist in the foreseeable future. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Minimalist and High-Quality Panoramic Imaging with PSF-aware  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12992  
**Abstract:** High-quality panoramic images with a Field of View (FoV) of 360-degree are essential for contemporary panoramic computer vision tasks. However, conventional imaging systems come with sophisticated lens designs and heavy optical components. This disqualifies their usage in many mobile and wearable applications where thin and portable, minimalist imaging systems are desired. In this paper, we propose a Panoramic Computational Imaging Engine (PCIE) to address minimalist and high-quality panoramic imaging. With less than three spherical lenses, a Minimalist Panoramic Imaging Prototype (MPIP) is constructed based on the design of the Panoramic Annular Lens (PAL), but with low-quality imaging results due to aberrations and small image plane size. We propose two pipelines, i.e. Aberration Correction (AC) and Super-Resolution and Aberration Correction (SR&AC), to solve the image quality problems of MPIP, with imaging sensors of small and large pixel size, respectively. To provide a universal network for the two pipelines, we leverage the information from the Point Spread Function (PSF) of the optical system and design a PSF-aware Aberration-image Recovery Transformer (PART), in which the self-attention calculation and feature extraction are guided via PSF-aware mechanisms. We train PART on synthetic image pairs from simulation and put forward the PALHQ dataset to fill the gap of real-world high-quality PAL images for low-level vision. A comprehensive variety of experiments on synthetic and real-world benchmarks demonstrates the impressive imaging results of PCIE and the effectiveness of plug-and-play PSF-aware mechanisms. We further deliver heuristic experimental findings for minimalist and high-quality panoramic imaging. Our dataset and code will be available at https://github.com/zju-jiangqi/PCIE-PART. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Towards Explainable Evaluation Metrics for Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.13041  
**Abstract:** Unlike classical lexical overlap metrics such as BLEU, most current evaluation metrics for machine translation (for example, COMET or BERTScore) are based on black-box large language models. They often achieve strong correlations with human judgments, but recent research indicates that the lower-quality classical metrics remain dominant, one of the potential reasons being that their decision processes are more transparent. To foster more widespread acceptance of novel high-quality metrics, explainability thus becomes crucial. In this concept paper, we identify key properties as well as key goals of explainable machine translation metrics and provide a comprehensive synthesis of recent techniques, relating them to our established goals and properties. In this context, we also discuss the latest state-of-the-art approaches to explainable metrics based on generative models such as ChatGPT and GPT4. Finally, we contribute a vision of next-generation approaches, including natural language explanations. We hope that our work can help catalyze and guide future research on explainable evaluation metrics and, mediately, also contribute to better and more transparent machine translation systems. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Deep Metric Learning with Soft Orthogonal Proxies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.13055  
**Abstract:** Deep Metric Learning (DML) models rely on strong representations and similarity-based measures with specific loss functions. Proxy-based losses have shown great performance compared to pair-based losses in terms of convergence speed. However, proxies that are assigned to different classes may end up being closely located in the embedding space and hence having a hard time to distinguish between positive and negative items. Alternatively, they may become highly correlated and hence provide redundant information with the model. To address these issues, we propose a novel approach that introduces Soft Orthogonality (SO) constraint on proxies. The constraint ensures the proxies to be as orthogonal as possible and hence control their positions in the embedding space. Our approach leverages Data-Efficient Image Transformer (DeiT) as an encoder to extract contextual features from images along with a DML objective. The objective is made of the Proxy Anchor loss along with the SO regularization. We evaluate our method on four public benchmarks for category-level image retrieval and demonstrate its effectiveness with comprehensive experimental results and ablation studies. Our evaluations demonstrate the superiority of our proposed approach over state-of-the-art methods by a significant margin. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Named entity recognition in resumes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.13062  
**Abstract:** Named entity recognition (NER) is used to extract information from various documents and texts such as names and dates. It is important to extract education and work experience information from resumes in order to filter them. Considering the fact that all information in a resume has to be entered to the companys system manually, automatizing this process will save time of the companies. In this study, a deep learning-based semi-automatic named entity recognition system has been implemented with a focus on resumes in the field of IT. Firstly, resumes of employees from five different IT related fields has been annotated. Six transformer based pre-trained models have been adapted to named entity recognition problem using the annotated data. These models have been selected among popular models in the natural language processing field. The obtained system can recognize eight different entity types which are city, date, degree, diploma major, job title, language, country and skill. Models used in the experiments are compared using micro, macro and weighted F1 scores and the performance of the methods was evaluated. Taking these scores into account for test set the best micro and weighted F1 score is obtained by RoBERTa and the best macro F1 score is obtained by Electra model. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** A Comparison of Time-based Models for Multimodal Emotion Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.13076  
**Abstract:** Emotion recognition has become an important research topic in the field of human-computer interaction. Studies on sound and videos to understand emotions focused mainly on analyzing facial expressions and classified 6 basic emotions. In this study, the performance of different sequence models in multi-modal emotion recognition was compared. The sound and images were first processed by multi-layered CNN models, and the outputs of these models were fed into various sequence models. The sequence model is GRU, Transformer, LSTM and Max Pooling. Accuracy, precision, and F1 Score values of all models were calculated. The multi-modal CREMA-D dataset was used in the experiments. As a result of the comparison of the CREMA-D dataset, GRU-based architecture with 0.640 showed the best result in F1 score, LSTM-based architecture with 0.699 in precision metric, while sensitivity showed the best results over time with Max Pooling-based architecture with 0.620. As a result, it has been observed that the sequence models compare performances close to each other. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Continuous Layout Editing of Single Images with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.13078  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in large-scale text-to-image diffusion models have enabled many applications in image editing. However, none of these methods have been able to edit the layout of single existing images. To address this gap, we propose the first framework for layout editing of a single image while preserving its visual properties, thus allowing for continuous editing on a single image. Our approach is achieved through two key modules. First, to preserve the characteristics of multiple objects within an image, we disentangle the concepts of different objects and embed them into separate textual tokens using a novel method called masked textual inversion. Next, we propose a training-free optimization method to perform layout control for a pre-trained diffusion model, which allows us to regenerate images with learned concepts and align them with user-specified layouts. As the first framework to edit the layout of existing images, we demonstrate that our method is effective and outperforms other baselines that were modified to support this task. Our code will be freely available for public use upon acceptance. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Evading Forensic Classifiers with Attribute-Conditioned Adversarial  Faces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.13091  
**Abstract:** The ability of generative models to produce highly realistic synthetic face images has raised security and ethical concerns. As a first line of defense against such fake faces, deep learning based forensic classifiers have been developed. While these forensic models can detect whether a face image is synthetic or real with high accuracy, they are also vulnerable to adversarial attacks. Although such attacks can be highly successful in evading detection by forensic classifiers, they introduce visible noise patterns that are detectable through careful human scrutiny. Additionally, these attacks assume access to the target model(s) which may not always be true. Attempts have been made to directly perturb the latent space of GANs to produce adversarial fake faces that can circumvent forensic classifiers. In this work, we go one step further and show that it is possible to successfully generate adversarial fake faces with a specified set of attributes (e.g., hair color, eye size, race, gender, etc.). To achieve this goal, we leverage the state-of-the-art generative model StyleGAN with disentangled representations, which enables a range of modifications without leaving the manifold of natural images. We propose a framework to search for adversarial latent codes within the feature space of StyleGAN, where the search can be guided either by a text prompt or a reference image. We also propose a meta-learning based optimization strategy to achieve transferable performance on unknown target models. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed approach can produce semantically manipulated adversarial fake faces, which are true to the specified attribute set and can successfully fool forensic face classifiers, while remaining undetectable by humans. Code: https://github.com/koushiksrivats/face_attribute_attack. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Aligning Synthetic Medical Images with Clinical Knowledge using Human  Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12438  
**Abstract:** Generative models capable of capturing nuanced clinical features in medical images hold great promise for facilitating clinical data sharing, enhancing rare disease datasets, and efficiently synthesizing annotated medical images at scale. Despite their potential, assessing the quality of synthetic medical images remains a challenge. While modern generative models can synthesize visually-realistic medical images, the clinical validity of these images may be called into question. Domain-agnostic scores, such as FID score, precision, and recall, cannot incorporate clinical knowledge and are, therefore, not suitable for assessing clinical sensibility. Additionally, there are numerous unpredictable ways in which generative models may fail to synthesize clinically plausible images, making it challenging to anticipate potential failures and manually design scores for their detection. To address these challenges, this paper introduces a pathologist-in-the-loop framework for generating clinically-plausible synthetic medical images. Starting with a diffusion model pretrained using real images, our framework comprises three steps: (1) evaluating the generated images by expert pathologists to assess whether they satisfy clinical desiderata, (2) training a reward model that predicts the pathologist feedback on new samples, and (3) incorporating expert knowledge into the diffusion model by using the reward model to inform a finetuning objective. We show that human feedback significantly improves the quality of synthetic images in terms of fidelity, diversity, utility in downstream applications, and plausibility as evaluated by experts. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Comparing deep learning models for volatility prediction using  multivariate data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12446  
**Abstract:** This study aims at comparing several deep learning-based forecasters in the task of volatility prediction using multivariate data, proceeding from simpler or shallower to deeper and more complex models and compare them to the naive prediction and variations of classical GARCH models. Specifically, the volatility of five assets (i.e., S\&P500, NASDAQ100, gold, silver, and oil) was predicted with the GARCH models, Multi-Layer Perceptrons, recurrent neural networks, Temporal Convolutional Networks, and the Temporal Fusion Transformer. In most cases the Temporal Fusion Transformer followed by variants of Temporal Convolutional Network outperformed classical approaches and shallow networks. These experiments were repeated, and the difference between competing models was shown to be statistically significant, therefore encouraging their use in practice. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Physical informed neural networks with soft and hard boundary  constraints for solving advection-diffusion equations using Fourier  expansions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12749  
**Abstract:** Deep learning methods have gained considerable interest in the numerical solution of various partial differential equations (PDEs). One particular focus is on physics-informed neural networks (PINNs), which integrate physical principles into neural networks. This transforms the process of solving PDEs into optimization problems for neural networks. In order to address a collection of advection-diffusion equations (ADE) in a range of difficult circumstances, this paper proposes a novel network structure. This architecture integrates the solver, which is a multi-scale deep neural network (MscaleDNN) utilized in the PINN method, with a hard constraint technique known as HCPINN. This method introduces a revised formulation of the desired solution for advection-diffusion equations (ADE) by utilizing a loss function that incorporates the residuals of the governing equation and penalizes any deviations from the specified boundary and initial constraints. By surpassing the boundary constraints automatically, this method improves the accuracy and efficiency of the PINN technique. To address the ``spectral bias'' phenomenon in neural networks, a subnetwork structure of MscaleDNN and a Fourier-induced activation function are incorporated into the HCPINN, resulting in a hybrid approach called SFHCPINN. The effectiveness of SFHCPINN is demonstrated through various numerical experiments involving advection-diffusion equations (ADE) in different dimensions. The numerical results indicate that SFHCPINN outperforms both standard PINN and its subnetwork version with Fourier feature embedding. It achieves remarkable accuracy and efficiency while effectively handling complex boundary conditions and high-frequency scenarios in ADE. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Restoration of the JPEG Maximum Lossy Compressed Face Images with  Hourglass Block based on Early Stopping Discriminator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12757  
**Abstract:** When a JPEG image is compressed using the loss compression method with a high compression rate, a blocking phenomenon can occur in the image, making it necessary to restore the image to its original quality. In particular, restoring compressed images that are unrecognizable presents an innovative challenge. Therefore, this paper aims to address the restoration of JPEG images that have suffered significant loss due to maximum compression using a GAN-based net-work method. The generator in this network is based on the U-Net architecture and features a newly presented hourglass structure that can preserve the charac-teristics of deep layers. Additionally, the network incorporates two loss functions, LF Loss and HF Loss, to generate natural and high-performance images. HF Loss uses a pretrained VGG-16 network and is configured using a specific layer that best represents features, which can enhance performance for the high-frequency region. LF Loss, on the other hand, is used to handle the low-frequency region. These two loss functions facilitate the generation of images by the generator that can deceive the discriminator while accurately generating both high and low-frequency regions. The results show that the blocking phe-nomenon in lost compressed images was removed, and recognizable identities were generated. This study represents a significant improvement over previous research in terms of image restoration performance. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** A prior regularized full waveform inversion using generative diffusion  models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12776  
**Abstract:** Full waveform inversion (FWI) has the potential to provide high-resolution subsurface model estimations. However, due to limitations in observation, e.g., regional noise, limited shots or receivers, and band-limited data, it is hard to obtain the desired high-resolution model with FWI. To address this challenge, we propose a new paradigm for FWI regularized by generative diffusion models. Specifically, we pre-train a diffusion model in a fully unsupervised manner on a prior velocity model distribution that represents our expectations of the subsurface and then adapt it to the seismic observations by incorporating the FWI into the sampling process of the generative diffusion models. What makes diffusion models uniquely appropriate for such an implementation is that the generative process retains the form and dimensions of the velocity model. Numerical examples demonstrate that our method can outperform the conventional FWI with only negligible additional computational cost. Even in cases of very sparse observations or observations with strong noise, the proposed method could still reconstruct a high-quality subsurface model. Thus, we can incorporate our prior expectations of the solutions in an efficient manner. We further test this approach on field data, which demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Wind Noise Reduction with a Diffusion-based Stochastic Regeneration  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.12867  
**Abstract:** In this paper we present a method for single-channel wind noise reduction using our previously proposed diffusion-based stochastic regeneration model combining predictive and generative modelling. We introduce a non-additive speech in noise model to account for the non-linear deformation of the membrane caused by the wind flow and possible clipping. We show that our stochastic regeneration model outperforms other neural-network-based wind noise reduction methods as well as purely predictive and generative models, on a dataset using simulated and real-recorded wind noise. We further show that the proposed method generalizes well by testing on an unseen dataset with real-recorded wind noise. Audio samples, data generation scripts and code for the proposed methods can be found online (https://uhh.de/inf-sp-storm-wind). 

