**ID:** 1  
**Title:** GPT-4 Reticular Chemist for MOF Discovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.14915  
**Abstract:** We present a new framework integrating the AI model GPT-4 into the iterative process of reticular chemistry experimentation, leveraging a cooperative workflow of interaction between AI and a human apprentice. This GPT-4 Reticular Chemist is an integrated system composed of three phases. Each of these utilizes GPT-4 in various capacities, wherein GPT-4 provides detailed instructions for chemical experimentation and the apprentice provides feedback on the experimental outcomes, including both success and failures, for the in-text learning of AI in the next iteration. This iterative human-AI interaction enabled GPT-4 to learn from the outcomes, much like an experienced chemist, by a prompt-learning strategy. Importantly, the system is based on natural language for both development and operation, eliminating the need for coding skills, and thus, make it accessible to all chemists. Our GPT-4 Reticular Chemist demonstrated the discovery of an isoreticular series of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), each of which was made using distinct synthesis strategies and optimal conditions. This workflow presents a potential for broader applications in scientific research by harnessing the capability of large language models like GPT-4 to enhance the feasibility and efficiency of research activities. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Product Information Extraction using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.14921  
**Abstract:** Structured product data in the form of attribute/value pairs is the foundation of many e-commerce applications such as faceted product search, product comparison, and product recommendation. Product offers often only contain textual descriptions of the product attributes in the form of titles or free text. Hence, extracting attribute/value pairs from textual product descriptions is an essential enabler for e-commerce applications. In order to excel, state-of-the-art product information extraction methods require large quantities of task-specific training data. The methods also struggle with generalizing to out-of-distribution attributes and attribute values that were not a part of the training data. Due to being pre-trained on huge amounts of text as well as due to emergent effects resulting from the model size, Large Language Models like ChatGPT have the potential to address both of these shortcomings. This paper explores the potential of ChatGPT for extracting attribute/value pairs from product descriptions. We experiment with different zero-shot and few-shot prompt designs. Our results show that ChatGPT achieves a performance similar to a pre-trained language model but requires much smaller amounts of training data and computation for fine-tuning. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** LLM-Assisted Content Analysis: Using Large Language Models to Support  Deductive Coding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.14924  
**Abstract:** Deductive coding is a widely used qualitative research method for determining the prevalence of themes across documents. While useful, deductive coding is often burdensome and time consuming since it requires researchers to read, interpret, and reliably categorize a large body of unstructured text documents. Large language models (LLMs), like ChatGPT, are a class of quickly evolving AI tools that can perform a range of natural language processing and reasoning tasks. In this study, we explore the use of LLMs to reduce the time it takes for deductive coding while retaining the flexibility of a traditional content analysis. We outline the proposed approach, called LLM-assisted content analysis (LACA), along with an in-depth case study using GPT-3.5 for LACA on a publicly available deductive coding data set. Additionally, we conduct an empirical benchmark using LACA on 4 publicly available data sets to assess the broader question of how well GPT-3.5 performs across a range of deductive coding tasks. Overall, we find that GPT-3.5 can often perform deductive coding at levels of agreement comparable to human coders. Additionally, we demonstrate that LACA can help refine prompts for deductive coding, identify codes for which an LLM is randomly guessing, and help assess when to use LLMs vs. human coders for deductive coding. We conclude with several implications for future practice of deductive coding and related research methods. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** LM4HPC: Towards Effective Language Model Application in High-Performance  Computing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.14979  
**Abstract:** In recent years, language models (LMs), such as GPT-4, have been widely used in multiple domains, including natural language processing, visualization, and so on. However, applying them for analyzing and optimizing high-performance computing (HPC) software is still challenging due to the lack of HPC-specific support. In this paper, we design the LM4HPC framework to facilitate the research and development of HPC software analyses and optimizations using LMs. Tailored for supporting HPC datasets, AI models, and pipelines, our framework is built on top of a range of components from different levels of the machine learning software stack, with Hugging Face-compatible APIs. Using three representative tasks, we evaluated the prototype of our framework. The results show that LM4HPC can help users quickly evaluate a set of state-of-the-art models and generate insightful leaderboards. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Pretraining task diversity and the emergence of non-Bayesian in-context  learning for regression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15063  
**Abstract:** Pretrained transformers exhibit the remarkable ability of in-context learning (ICL): they can learn tasks from just a few examples provided in the prompt without updating any weights. This raises a foundational question: can ICL solve fundamentally $\textit{new}$ tasks that are very different from those seen during pretraining? To probe this question, we examine ICL's performance on linear regression while varying the diversity of tasks in the pretraining dataset. We empirically demonstrate a $\textit{task diversity threshold}$ for the emergence of ICL. Below this threshold, the pretrained transformer cannot solve unseen regression tasks as it behaves like a Bayesian estimator with the $\textit{non-diverse pretraining task distribution}$ as the prior. Beyond this threshold, the transformer significantly outperforms this estimator; its behavior aligns with that of ridge regression, corresponding to a Gaussian prior over $\textit{all tasks}$, including those not seen during pretraining. These results highlight that, when pretrained on data with task diversity greater than the threshold, transformers $\textit{can}$ solve fundamentally new tasks in-context. Importantly, this capability hinges on it deviating from the Bayes optimal estimator with the pretraining distribution as the prior. This study underscores, in a concrete example, the critical role of task diversity, alongside data and model scale, in the emergence of ICL. Code is available at https://github.com/mansheej/icl-task-diversity. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Semi-Supervised Image Captioning with CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15111  
**Abstract:** Image captioning, a fundamental task in vision-language understanding, seeks to generate accurate natural language descriptions for provided images. The CLIP model, with its rich semantic features learned from a large corpus of image-text pairs, is well-suited for this task. In this paper, we present a two-stage semi-supervised image captioning approach that exploits the potential of CLIP encoding. Our model comprises a CLIP visual encoder, a mapping network, and a language model for text generation. In the initial stage, we train the model using a small labeled dataset by contrasting the generated captions with the ground truth captions. In the subsequent stage, we continue the training using unlabeled images, aiming to maximize the image-caption similarity based on CLIP embeddings. Remarkably, despite utilizing less than 2% of the COCO-captions, our approach delivers a performance comparable to state-of-the-art models trained on the complete dataset. Furthermore, the captions generated by our approach are more distinctive, informative, and in line with human preference. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Investigating Cross-Domain Behaviors of BERT in Review Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15123  
**Abstract:** Review score prediction requires review text understanding, a critical real-world application of natural language processing. Due to dissimilar text domains in product reviews, a common practice is fine-tuning BERT models upon reviews of differing domains. However, there has not yet been an empirical study of cross-domain behaviors of BERT models in the various tasks of product review understanding. In this project, we investigate text classification BERT models fine-tuned on single-domain and multi-domain Amazon review data. In our findings, though single-domain models achieved marginally improved performance on their corresponding domain compared to multi-domain models, multi-domain models outperformed single-domain models when evaluated on multi-domain data, single-domain data the single-domain model was not fine-tuned on, and on average when considering all tests. Though slight increases in accuracy can be achieved through single-domain model fine-tuning, computational resources and costs can be reduced by utilizing multi-domain models that perform well across domains. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** DSRM: Boost Textual Adversarial Training with Distribution Shift Risk  Minimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15164  
**Abstract:** Adversarial training is one of the best-performing methods in improving the robustness of deep language models. However, robust models come at the cost of high time consumption, as they require multi-step gradient ascents or word substitutions to obtain adversarial samples. In addition, these generated samples are deficient in grammatical quality and semantic consistency, which impairs the effectiveness of adversarial training. To address these problems, we introduce a novel, effective procedure for instead adversarial training with only clean data. Our procedure, distribution shift risk minimization (DSRM), estimates the adversarial loss by perturbing the input data's probability distribution rather than their embeddings. This formulation results in a robust model that minimizes the expected global loss under adversarial attacks. Our approach requires zero adversarial samples for training and reduces time consumption by up to 70\% compared to current best-performing adversarial training methods. Experiments demonstrate that DSRM considerably improves BERT's resistance to textual adversarial attacks and achieves state-of-the-art robust accuracy on various benchmarks. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Unsupervised Episode Generation for Graph Meta-learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15217  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we investigate Unsupervised Episode Generation methods to solve Few-Shot Node-Classification (FSNC) problem via Meta-learning without labels. Dominant meta-learning methodologies for FSNC were developed under the existence of abundant labeled nodes for training, which however may not be possible to obtain in the real-world. Although few studies have been proposed to tackle the label-scarcity problem, they still rely on a limited amount of labeled data, which hinders the full utilization of the information of all nodes in a graph. Despite the effectiveness of Self-Supervised Learning (SSL) approaches on FSNC without labels, they mainly learn generic node embeddings without consideration on the downstream task to be solved, which may limit its performance. In this work, we propose unsupervised episode generation methods to benefit from their generalization ability for FSNC tasks while resolving label-scarcity problem. We first propose a method that utilizes graph augmentation to generate training episodes called g-UMTRA, which however has several drawbacks, i.e., 1) increased training time due to the computation of augmented features and 2) low applicability to existing baselines. Hence, we propose Neighbors as Queries (NaQ), which generates episodes from structural neighbors found by graph diffusion. Our proposed methods are model-agnostic, that is, they can be plugged into any existing graph meta-learning models, while not sacrificing much of their performance or sometimes even improving them. We provide theoretical insights to support why our unsupervised episode generation methodologies work, and extensive experimental results demonstrate the potential of our unsupervised episode generation methods for graph meta-learning towards FSNC problems. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Cutting-Edge Techniques for Depth Map Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15244  
**Abstract:** To overcome hardware limitations in commercially available depth sensors which result in low-resolution depth maps, depth map super-resolution (DMSR) is a practical and valuable computer vision task. DMSR requires upscaling a low-resolution (LR) depth map into a high-resolution (HR) space. Joint image filtering for DMSR has been applied using spatially-invariant and spatially-variant convolutional neural network (CNN) approaches. In this project, we propose a novel joint image filtering DMSR algorithm using a Swin transformer architecture. Furthermore, we introduce a Nonlinear Activation Free (NAF) network based on a conventional CNN model used in cutting-edge image restoration applications and compare the performance of the techniques. The proposed algorithms are validated through numerical studies and visual examples demonstrating improvements to state-of-the-art performance while maintaining competitive computation time for noisy depth map super-resolution. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** IDOL: Indicator-oriented Logic Pre-training for Logical Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15273  
**Abstract:** In the field of machine reading comprehension (MRC), existing systems have surpassed the average performance of human beings in many tasks like SQuAD. However, there is still a long way to go when it comes to logical reasoning. Although some methods for it have been put forward, they either are designed in a quite complicated way or rely too much on external structures. In this paper, we proposed IDOL (InDicator-Oriented Logic Pre-training), an easy-to-understand but highly effective further pre-training task which logically strengthens the pre-trained models with the help of 6 types of logical indicators and a logically rich dataset LGP (LoGic Pre-training). IDOL achieves state-of-the-art performance on ReClor and LogiQA, the two most representative benchmarks in logical reasoning MRC, and is proven to be capable of generalizing to different pre-trained models and other types of MRC benchmarks like RACE and SQuAD 2.0 while keeping competitive general language understanding ability through testing on tasks in GLUE. Besides, at the beginning of the era of large language models, we take several of them like ChatGPT into comparison and find that IDOL still shows its advantage. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Hierarchical Dense Correlation Distillation for Few-Shot  Segmentation-Extended Abstract  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15278  
**Abstract:** Few-shot semantic segmentation (FSS) aims to form class-agnostic models segmenting unseen classes with only a handful of annotations. Previous methods limited to the semantic feature and prototype representation suffer from coarse segmentation granularity and train-set overfitting. In this work, we design Hierarchically Decoupled Matching Network (HDMNet) mining pixel-level support correlation based on the transformer architecture. The self-attention modules are used to assist in establishing hierarchical dense features, as a means to accomplish the cascade matching between query and support features. Moreover, we propose a matching module to reduce train-set overfitting and introduce correlation distillation leveraging semantic correspondence from coarse resolution to boost fine-grained segmentation. Our method performs decently in experiments. We achieve 50.0% mIoU on COCO dataset one-shot setting and 56.0% on five-shot segmentation, respectively. The code will be available on the project website. We hope our work can benefit broader industrial applications where novel classes with limited annotations are required to be decently identified. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Gender Bias in BERT -- Measuring and Analysing Biases through Sentiment  Rating in a Realistic Downstream Classification Task  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15298  
**Abstract:** Pretrained language models are publicly available and constantly finetuned for various real-life applications. As they become capable of grasping complex contextual information, harmful biases are likely increasingly intertwined with those models. This paper analyses gender bias in BERT models with two main contributions: First, a novel bias measure is introduced, defining biases as the difference in sentiment valuation of female and male sample versions. Second, we comprehensively analyse BERT's biases on the example of a realistic IMDB movie classifier. By systematically varying elements of the training pipeline, we can conclude regarding their impact on the final model bias. Seven different public BERT models in nine training conditions, i.e. 63 models in total, are compared. Almost all conditions yield significant gender biases. Results indicate that reflected biases stem from public BERT models rather than task-specific data, emphasising the weight of responsible usage. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Towards predicting Pedestrian Evacuation Time and Density from  Floorplans using a Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15318  
**Abstract:** Conventional pedestrian simulators are inevitable tools in the design process of a building, as they enable project engineers to prevent overcrowding situations and plan escape routes for evacuation. However, simulation runtime and the multiple cumbersome steps in generating simulation results are potential bottlenecks during the building design process. Data-driven approaches have demonstrated their capability to outperform conventional methods in speed while delivering similar or even better results across many disciplines. In this work, we present a deep learning-based approach based on a Vision Transformer to predict density heatmaps over time and total evacuation time from a given floorplan. Specifically, due to limited availability of public datasets, we implement a parametric data generation pipeline including a conventional simulator. This enables us to build a large synthetic dataset that we use to train our architecture. Furthermore, we seamlessly integrate our model into a BIM-authoring tool to generate simulation results instantly and automatically. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** A mobility-SAV approach for a Cahn-Hilliard equation\\ with degenerate  mobilities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15329  
**Abstract:** A novel numerical strategy is introduced for computing approximations of solutions to a Cahn-Hilliard model with degenerate mobilities. This model has recently been introduced as a second-order phase-field approximation for surface diffusion flows. Its numerical discretization is challenging due to the degeneracy of the mobilities, which generally requires an implicit treatment to avoid stability issues at the price of increased complexity costs. To mitigate this drawback, we consider new first- and second-order Scalar Auxiliary Variable (SAV) schemes that, differently from existing approaches, focus on the relaxation of the mobility, rather than the Cahn-Hilliard energy. These schemes are introduced and analysed theoretically in the general context of gradient flows and then specialised for the Cahn-Hilliard equation with mobilities. Various numerical experiments are conducted to highlight the advantages of these new schemes in terms of accuracy, effectiveness and computational cost. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** FedET: A Communication-Efficient Federated Class-Incremental Learning  Framework Based on Enhanced Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15347  
**Abstract:** Federated Learning (FL) has been widely concerned for it enables decentralized learning while ensuring data privacy. However, most existing methods unrealistically assume that the classes encountered by local clients are fixed over time. After learning new classes, this assumption will make the model's catastrophic forgetting of old classes significantly severe. Moreover, due to the limitation of communication cost, it is challenging to use large-scale models in FL, which will affect the prediction accuracy. To address these challenges, we propose a novel framework, Federated Enhanced Transformer (FedET), which simultaneously achieves high accuracy and low communication cost. Specifically, FedET uses Enhancer, a tiny module, to absorb and communicate new knowledge, and applies pre-trained Transformers combined with different Enhancers to ensure high precision on various tasks. To address local forgetting caused by new classes of new tasks and global forgetting brought by non-i.i.d (non-independent and identically distributed) class imbalance across different local clients, we proposed an Enhancer distillation method to modify the imbalance between old and new knowledge and repair the non-i.i.d. problem. Experimental results demonstrate that FedET's average accuracy on representative benchmark datasets is 14.1% higher than the state-of-the-art method, while FedET saves 90% of the communication cost compared to the previous method. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Free-style and Fast 3D Portrait Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15419  
**Abstract:** Efficiently generating a free-style 3D portrait with high quality and consistency is a promising yet challenging task. The portrait styles generated by most existing methods are usually restricted by their 3D generators, which are learned in specific facial datasets, such as FFHQ. To get a free-style 3D portrait, one can build a large-scale multi-style database to retrain the 3D generator, or use a off-the-shelf tool to do the style translation. However, the former is time-consuming due to data collection and training process, the latter may destroy the multi-view consistency. To tackle this problem, we propose a fast 3D portrait synthesis framework in this paper, which enable one to use text prompts to specify styles. Specifically, for a given portrait style, we first leverage two generative priors, a 3D-aware GAN generator (EG3D) and a text-guided image editor (Ip2p), to quickly construct a few-shot training set, where the inference process of Ip2p is optimized to make editing more stable. Then we replace original triplane generator of EG3D with a Image-to-Triplane (I2T) module for two purposes: 1) getting rid of the style constraints of pre-trained EG3D by fine-tuning I2T on the few-shot dataset; 2) improving training efficiency by fixing all parts of EG3D except I2T. Furthermore, we construct a multi-style and multi-identity 3D portrait database to demonstrate the scalability and generalization of our method. Experimental results show that our method is capable of synthesizing high-quality 3D portraits with specified styles in a few minutes, outperforming the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Adversarial Training for Graph Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15427  
**Abstract:** Despite its success in the image domain, adversarial training does not (yet) stand out as an effective defense for Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) against graph structure perturbations. In the pursuit of fixing adversarial training (1) we show and overcome fundamental theoretical as well as practical limitations of the adopted graph learning setting in prior work; (2) we reveal that more flexible GNNs based on learnable graph diffusion are able to adjust to adversarial perturbations, while the learned message passing scheme is naturally interpretable; (3) we introduce the first attack for structure perturbations that, while targeting multiple nodes at once, is capable of handling global (graph-level) as well as local (node-level) constraints. Including these contributions, we demonstrate that adversarial training is a state-of-the-art defense against adversarial structure perturbations. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Understanding Social Reasoning in Language Models with Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15448  
**Abstract:** As Large Language Models (LLMs) become increasingly integrated into our everyday lives, understanding their ability to comprehend human mental states becomes critical for ensuring effective interactions. However, despite the recent attempts to assess the Theory-of-Mind (ToM) reasoning capabilities of LLMs, the degree to which these models can align with human ToM remains a nuanced topic of exploration. This is primarily due to two distinct challenges: (1) the presence of inconsistent results from previous evaluations, and (2) concerns surrounding the validity of existing evaluation methodologies. To address these challenges, we present a novel framework for procedurally generating evaluations with LLMs by populating causal templates. Using our framework, we create a new social reasoning benchmark (BigToM) for LLMs which consists of 25 controls and 5,000 model-written evaluations. We find that human participants rate the quality of our benchmark higher than previous crowd-sourced evaluations and comparable to expert-written evaluations. Using BigToM, we evaluate the social reasoning capabilities of a variety of LLMs and compare model performances with human performance. Our results suggest that GPT4 has ToM capabilities that mirror human inference patterns, though less reliable, while other LLMs struggle. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Trajectory Generation, Control, and Safety with Denoising Diffusion  Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15512  
**Abstract:** We present a framework for safety-critical optimal control of physical systems based on denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs). The technology of control barrier functions (CBFs), encoding desired safety constraints, is used in combination with DDPMs to plan actions by iteratively denoising trajectories through a CBF-based guided sampling procedure. At the same time, the generated trajectories are also guided to maximize a future cumulative reward representing a specific task to be optimally executed. The proposed scheme can be seen as an offline and model-based reinforcement learning algorithm resembling in its functionalities a model-predictive control optimization scheme with receding horizon in which the selected actions lead to optimal and safe trajectories. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Unleashing the Power of User Reviews: Exploring Airline Choices at  Catania Airport, Italy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15541  
**Abstract:** This study aims to investigate the possible relationship between the mechanisms of social influence and the choice of airline, through the use of new tools, with the aim of understanding whether they can contribute to a better understanding of the factors influencing the decisions of consumers in the aviation sector. We have chosen to extract user reviews from well-known platforms: Trustpilot, Google, and Twitter. By combining web scraping techniques, we have been able to collect a comprehensive dataset comprising a wide range of user opinions, feedback, and ratings. We then refined the BERT model to focus on insightful sentiment in the context of airline reviews. Through our analysis, we observed an intriguing trend of average negative sentiment scores across various airlines, giving us deeper insight into the dynamics between airlines and helping us identify key partnerships, popular routes, and airlines that play a central role in the aeronautical ecosystem of Catania airport during the specified period. Our investigation led us to find that, despite an airline having received prestigious awards as a low-cost leader in Europe for two consecutive years 2021 and 2022, the "Catanese" user tends to suffer the dominant position of other companies. Understanding the impact of positive reviews and leveraging sentiment analysis can help airlines improve their reputation, attract more customers, and ultimately gain a competitive edge in the marketplace. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** CamemBERT-bio: a Tasty French Language Model Better for your Health  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15550  
**Abstract:** Clinical data in hospitals are increasingly accessible for research through clinical data warehouses, however these documents are unstructured. It is therefore necessary to extract information from medical reports to conduct clinical studies. Transfer learning with BERT-like models such as CamemBERT has allowed major advances, especially for named entity recognition. However, these models are trained for plain language and are less efficient on biomedical data. This is why we propose a new French public biomedical dataset on which we have continued the pre-training of CamemBERT. Thus, we introduce a first version of CamemBERT-bio, a specialized public model for the French biomedical domain that shows 2.54 points of F1 score improvement on average on different biomedical named entity recognition tasks. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** CrunchGPT: A chatGPT assisted framework for scientific machine learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15551  
**Abstract:** Scientific Machine Learning (SciML) has advanced recently across many different areas in computational science and engineering. The objective is to integrate data and physics seamlessly without the need of employing elaborate and computationally taxing data assimilation schemes. However, preprocessing, problem formulation, code generation, postprocessing and analysis are still time consuming and may prevent SciML from wide applicability in industrial applications and in digital twin frameworks. Here, we integrate the various stages of SciML under the umbrella of ChatGPT, to formulate CrunchGPT, which plays the role of a conductor orchestrating the entire workflow of SciML based on simple prompts by the user. Specifically, we present two examples that demonstrate the potential use of CrunchGPT in optimizing airfoils in aerodynamics, and in obtaining flow fields in various geometries in interactive mode, with emphasis on the validation stage. To demonstrate the flow of the CrunchGPT, and create an infrastructure that can facilitate a broader vision, we built a webapp based guided user interface, that includes options for a comprehensive summary report. The overall objective is to extend CrunchGPT to handle diverse problems in computational mechanics, design, optimization and controls, and general scientific computing tasks involved in SciML, hence using it as a research assistant tool but also as an educational tool. While here the examples focus in fluid mechanics, future versions will target solid mechanics and materials science, geophysics, systems biology and bioinformatics. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** You Can Mask More For Extremely Low-Bitrate Image Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15561  
**Abstract:** Learned image compression (LIC) methods have experienced significant progress during recent years. However, these methods are primarily dedicated to optimizing the rate-distortion (R-D) performance at medium and high bitrates (> 0.1 bits per pixel (bpp)), while research on extremely low bitrates is limited. Besides, existing methods fail to explicitly explore the image structure and texture components crucial for image compression, treating them equally alongside uninformative components in networks. This can cause severe perceptual quality degradation, especially under low-bitrate scenarios. In this work, inspired by the success of pre-trained masked autoencoders (MAE) in many downstream tasks, we propose to rethink its mask sampling strategy from structure and texture perspectives for high redundancy reduction and discriminative feature representation, further unleashing the potential of LIC methods. Therefore, we present a dual-adaptive masking approach (DA-Mask) that samples visible patches based on the structure and texture distributions of original images. We combine DA-Mask and pre-trained MAE in masked image modeling (MIM) as an initial compressor that abstracts informative semantic context and texture representations. Such a pipeline can well cooperate with LIC networks to achieve further secondary compression while preserving promising reconstruction quality. Consequently, we propose a simple yet effective masked compression model (MCM), the first framework that unifies MIM and LIC end-to-end for extremely low-bitrate image compression. Extensive experiments have demonstrated that our approach outperforms recent state-of-the-art methods in R-D performance, visual quality, and downstream applications, at very low bitrates. Our code is available at https://github.com/lianqi1008/MCM.git. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Constructing Multilingual Code Search Dataset Using Neural Machine  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15604  
**Abstract:** Code search is a task to find programming codes that semantically match the given natural language queries. Even though some of the existing datasets for this task are multilingual on the programming language side, their query data are only in English. In this research, we create a multilingual code search dataset in four natural and four programming languages using a neural machine translation model. Using our dataset, we pre-train and fine-tune the Transformer-based models and then evaluate them on multiple code search test sets. Our results show that the model pre-trained with all natural and programming language data has performed best in most cases. By applying back-translation data filtering to our dataset, we demonstrate that the translation quality affects the model's performance to a certain extent, but the data size matters more. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** LeanDojo: Theorem Proving with Retrieval-Augmented Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15626  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have shown promise in proving formal theorems using proof assistants such as Lean. However, existing methods are difficult to reproduce or build on, due to private code, data, and large compute requirements. This has created substantial barriers to research on machine learning methods for theorem proving. This paper removes these barriers by introducing LeanDojo: an open-source Lean playground consisting of toolkits, data, models, and benchmarks. LeanDojo extracts data from Lean and enables interaction with the proof environment programmatically. It contains fine-grained annotations of premises in proofs, providing valuable data for premise selection: a key bottleneck in theorem proving. Using this data, we develop ReProver (Retrieval-Augmented Prover): the first LLM-based prover that is augmented with retrieval for selecting premises from a vast math library. It is inexpensive and needs only one GPU week of training. Our retriever leverages LeanDojo's program analysis capability to identify accessible premises and hard negative examples, which makes retrieval much more effective. Furthermore, we construct a new benchmark consisting of 96,962 theorems and proofs extracted from Lean's math library. It features challenging data split requiring the prover to generalize to theorems relying on novel premises that are never used in training. We use this benchmark for training and evaluation, and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of ReProver over non-retrieval baselines and GPT-4. We thus provide the first set of open-source LLM-based theorem provers without any proprietary datasets and release it under a permissive MIT license to facilitate further research. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Style-transfer based Speech and Audio-visual Scene Understanding for  Robot Action Sequence Acquisition from Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15644  
**Abstract:** To realize human-robot collaboration, robots need to execute actions for new tasks according to human instructions given finite prior knowledge. Human experts can share their knowledge of how to perform a task with a robot through multi-modal instructions in their demonstrations, showing a sequence of short-horizon steps to achieve a long-horizon goal. This paper introduces a method for robot action sequence generation from instruction videos using (1) an audio-visual Transformer that converts audio-visual features and instruction speech to a sequence of robot actions called dynamic movement primitives (DMPs) and (2) style-transfer-based training that employs multi-task learning with video captioning and weakly-supervised learning with a semantic classifier to exploit unpaired video-action data. We built a system that accomplishes various cooking actions, where an arm robot executes a DMP sequence acquired from a cooking video using the audio-visual Transformer. Experiments with Epic-Kitchen-100, YouCookII, QuerYD, and in-house instruction video datasets show that the proposed method improves the quality of DMP sequences by 2.3 times the METEOR score obtained with a baseline video-to-action Transformer. The model achieved 32% of the task success rate with the task knowledge of the object. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** SparseOptimizer: Sparsify Language Models through Moreau-Yosida  Regularization and Accelerate through Compiler Co-design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15656  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces SparseOptimizer, a novel deep learning optimizer that exploits Moreau-Yosida regularization to naturally induce sparsity in large language models such as BERT, ALBERT and GPT. Key to the design of SparseOptimizer is an embedded shrinkage operator, which imparts sparsity directly within the optimization process. This operator, backed by a sound theoretical framework, includes an analytical solution, thereby reinforcing the optimizer's robustness and efficacy. Crucially, SparseOptimizer's plug-and-play functionality eradicates the need for code modifications, making it a universally adaptable tool for a wide array of large language models. Empirical evaluations on benchmark datasets such as GLUE, RACE, SQuAD1, and SQuAD2 confirm that SparseBERT and SparseALBERT, when sparsified using SparseOptimizer, achieve performance comparable to their dense counterparts, BERT and ALBERT, while significantly reducing their parameter count. Further, this work proposes an innovative optimizer-compiler co-design strategy, demonstrating the potential of inference acceleration (\textbf{3.37x}, \textbf{6.30x}, and \textbf{7.15x} in comparison with Pytorch, TensorFlow, and LLVM generic compile, respectively) in SparseBERT when paired with an appropriately designed compiler. This study represents a significant step forward in the evolution of efficient, scalable, and high-performing large language models, setting a precedent for future exploration and optimization in this domain. The SparseOptimizer code and SparseALBERT model will be made available upon paper acceptance. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** CLIPA-v2: Scaling CLIP Training with 81.1% Zero-shot ImageNet Accuracy  within a \$10,000 Budget; An Extra \$4,000 Unlocks 81.8% Accuracy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15658  
**Abstract:** The recent work CLIPA presents an inverse scaling law for CLIP training -- whereby the larger the image/text encoders used, the shorter the sequence length of image/text tokens that can be applied in training. This finding enables us to train high-performance CLIP models with significantly reduced computations. Building upon this work, we hereby present CLIPA-v2 with two key contributions. Technically, we find this inverse scaling law is also applicable in the finetuning stage, enabling further reduction in computational needs. Empirically, we explore CLIPA at scale, extending the experiments up to the H/14 model with ~13B image-text pairs seen during training. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Testing of Detection Tools for AI-Generated Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15666  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in generative pre-trained transformer large language models have emphasised the potential risks of unfair use of artificial intelligence (AI) generated content in an academic environment and intensified efforts in searching for solutions to detect such content. The paper examines the general functionality of detection tools for artificial intelligence generated text and evaluates them based on accuracy and error type analysis. Specifically, the study seeks to answer research questions about whether existing detection tools can reliably differentiate between human-written text and ChatGPT-generated text, and whether machine translation and content obfuscation techniques affect the detection of AIgenerated text. The research covers 12 publicly available tools and two commercial systems (Turnitin and PlagiarismCheck) that are widely used in the academic setting. The researchers conclude that the available detection tools are neither accurate nor reliable and have a main bias towards classifying the output as human-written rather than detecting AIgenerated text. Furthermore, content obfuscation techniques significantly worsen the performance of tools. The study makes several significant contributions. First, it summarises up-to-date similar scientific and non-scientific efforts in the field. Second, it presents the result of one of the most comprehensive tests conducted so far, based on a rigorous research methodology, an original document set, and a broad coverage of tools. Third, it discusses the implications and drawbacks of using detection tools for AI-generated text in academic settings. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** PoseDiffusion: Solving Pose Estimation via Diffusion-aided Bundle  Adjustment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15667  
**Abstract:** Camera pose estimation is a long-standing computer vision problem that to date often relies on classical methods, such as handcrafted keypoint matching, RANSAC and bundle adjustment. In this paper, we propose to formulate the Structure from Motion (SfM) problem inside a probabilistic diffusion framework, modelling the conditional distribution of camera poses given input images. This novel view of an old problem has several advantages. (i) The nature of the diffusion framework mirrors the iterative procedure of bundle adjustment. (ii) The formulation allows a seamless integration of geometric constraints from epipolar geometry. (iii) It excels in typically difficult scenarios such as sparse views with wide baselines. (iv) The method can predict intrinsics and extrinsics for an arbitrary amount of images. We demonstrate that our method PoseDiffusion significantly improves over the classic SfM pipelines and the learned approaches on two real-world datasets. Finally, it is observed that our method can generalize across datasets without further training. Project page: https://posediffusion.github.io/ 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** DNABERT-2: Efficient Foundation Model and Benchmark For Multi-Species  Genome  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15006  
**Abstract:** Decoding the linguistic intricacies of the genome is a crucial problem in biology, and pre-trained foundational models such as DNABERT and Nucleotide Transformer have made significant strides in this area. Existing works have largely hinged on k-mer, fixed-length permutations of A, T, C, and G, as the token of the genome language due to its simplicity. However, we argue that the computation and sample inefficiencies introduced by k-mer tokenization are primary obstacles in developing large genome foundational models. We provide conceptual and empirical insights into genome tokenization, building on which we propose to replace k-mer tokenization with Byte Pair Encoding (BPE), a statistics-based data compression algorithm that constructs tokens by iteratively merging the most frequent co-occurring genome segment in the corpus. We demonstrate that BPE not only overcomes the limitations of k-mer tokenization but also benefits from the computational efficiency of non-overlapping tokenization. Based on these insights, we introduce DNABERT-2, a refined genome foundation model that adapts an efficient tokenizer and employs multiple strategies to overcome input length constraints, reduce time and memory expenditure, and enhance model capability. Furthermore, we identify the absence of a comprehensive and standardized benchmark for genome understanding as another significant impediment to fair comparative analysis. In response, we propose the Genome Understanding Evaluation (GUE), a comprehensive multi-species genome classification dataset that amalgamates $28$ distinct datasets across $7$ tasks, with input lengths ranging from $70$ to $1000$. Through comprehensive experiments on the GUE benchmark, we demonstrate that DNABERT-2 achieves comparable performance to the state-of-the-art model with $21 \times$ fewer parameters and approximately $56 \times$ less GPU time in pre-training. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Unsupervised Polychromatic Neural Representation for CT Metal Artifact  Reduction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15203  
**Abstract:** Emerging neural reconstruction techniques based on tomography (e.g., NeRF, NeAT, and NeRP) have started showing unique capabilities in medical imaging. In this work, we present a novel Polychromatic neural representation (Polyner) to tackle the challenging problem of CT imaging when metallic implants exist within the human body. The artifacts arise from the drastic variation of metal's attenuation coefficients at various energy levels of the X-ray spectrum, leading to a nonlinear metal effect in CT measurements. Reconstructing CT images from metal-affected measurements hence poses a complicated nonlinear inverse problem where empirical models adopted in previous metal artifact reduction (MAR) approaches lead to signal loss and strongly aliased reconstructions. Polyner instead models the MAR problem from a nonlinear inverse problem perspective. Specifically, we first derive a polychromatic forward model to accurately simulate the nonlinear CT acquisition process. Then, we incorporate our forward model into the implicit neural representation to accomplish reconstruction. Lastly, we adopt a regularizer to preserve the physical properties of the CT images across different energy levels while effectively constraining the solution space. Our Polyner is an unsupervised method and does not require any external training data. Experimenting with multiple datasets shows that our Polyner achieves comparable or better performance than supervised methods on in-domain datasets while demonstrating significant performance improvements on out-of-domain datasets. To the best of our knowledge, our Polyner is the first unsupervised MAR method that outperforms its supervised counterparts. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Novel Hybrid-Learning Algorithms for Improved Millimeter-Wave Imaging  Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15341  
**Abstract:** Increasing attention is being paid to millimeter-wave (mmWave), 30 GHz to 300 GHz, and terahertz (THz), 300 GHz to 10 THz, sensing applications including security sensing, industrial packaging, medical imaging, and non-destructive testing. Traditional methods for perception and imaging are challenged by novel data-driven algorithms that offer improved resolution, localization, and detection rates. Over the past decade, deep learning technology has garnered substantial popularity, particularly in perception and computer vision applications. Whereas conventional signal processing techniques are more easily generalized to various applications, hybrid approaches where signal processing and learning-based algorithms are interleaved pose a promising compromise between performance and generalizability. Furthermore, such hybrid algorithms improve model training by leveraging the known characteristics of radio frequency (RF) waveforms, thus yielding more efficiently trained deep learning algorithms and offering higher performance than conventional methods. This dissertation introduces novel hybrid-learning algorithms for improved mmWave imaging systems applicable to a host of problems in perception and sensing. Various problem spaces are explored, including static and dynamic gesture classification; precise hand localization for human computer interaction; high-resolution near-field mmWave imaging using forward synthetic aperture radar (SAR); SAR under irregular scanning geometries; mmWave image super-resolution using deep neural network (DNN) and Vision Transformer (ViT) architectures; and data-level multiband radar fusion using a novel hybrid-learning architecture. Furthermore, we introduce several novel approaches for deep learning model training and dataset synthesis. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** CellViT: Vision Transformers for Precise Cell Segmentation and  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15350  
**Abstract:** Nuclei detection and segmentation in hematoxylin and eosin-stained (H&E) tissue images are important clinical tasks and crucial for a wide range of applications. However, it is a challenging task due to nuclei variances in staining and size, overlapping boundaries, and nuclei clustering. While convolutional neural networks have been extensively used for this task, we explore the potential of Transformer-based networks in this domain. Therefore, we introduce a new method for automated instance segmentation of cell nuclei in digitized tissue samples using a deep learning architecture based on Vision Transformer called CellViT. CellViT is trained and evaluated on the PanNuke dataset, which is one of the most challenging nuclei instance segmentation datasets, consisting of nearly 200,000 annotated Nuclei into 5 clinically important classes in 19 tissue types. We demonstrate the superiority of large-scale in-domain and out-of-domain pre-trained Vision Transformers by leveraging the recently published Segment Anything Model and a ViT-encoder pre-trained on 104 million histological image patches - achieving state-of-the-art nuclei detection and instance segmentation performance on the PanNuke dataset with a mean panoptic quality of 0.51 and an F1-detection score of 0.83. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/TIO-IKIM/CellViT 

