**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Procedural content generation of puzzle games using conditional  generative adversarial networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15696  
**Abstract:** In this article, we present an experimental approach to using parameterized Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to produce levels for the puzzle game Lily's Garden. We extract two condition vectors from the real levels in an effort to control the details of the GAN's outputs. While the GANs perform well in approximating the first condition (map shape), they struggle to approximate the second condition (piece distribution). We hypothesize that this might be improved by trying out alternative architectures for both the Generator and Discriminator of the GANs. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** MAE-GEBD:Winning the CVPR'2023 LOVEU-GEBD Challenge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15704  
**Abstract:** The Generic Event Boundary Detection (GEBD) task aims to build a model for segmenting videos into segments by detecting general event boundaries applicable to various classes. In this paper, based on last year's MAE-GEBD method, we have improved our model performance on the GEBD task by adjusting the data processing strategy and loss function. Based on last year's approach, we extended the application of pseudo-label to a larger dataset and made many experimental attempts. In addition, we applied focal loss to concentrate more on difficult samples and improved our model performance. Finally, we improved the segmentation alignment strategy used last year, and dynamically adjusted the segmentation alignment method according to the boundary density and duration of the video, so that our model can be more flexible and fully applicable in different situations. With our method, we achieve an F1 score of 86.03% on the Kinetics-GEBD test set, which is a 0.09% improvement in the F1 score compared to our 2022 Kinetics-GEBD method. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Approximated Prompt Tuning for Vision-Language Pre-trained Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15706  
**Abstract:** Prompt tuning is a parameter-efficient way to deploy large-scale pre-trained models to downstream tasks by adding task-specific tokens. In terms of vision-language pre-trained (VLP) models, prompt tuning often requires a large number of learnable tokens to bridge the gap between the pre-training and downstream tasks, which greatly exacerbates the already high computational overhead. In this paper, we revisit the principle of prompt tuning for Transformer-based VLP models and reveal that the impact of soft prompt tokens can be actually approximated via independent information diffusion steps, thereby avoiding the expensive global attention modeling and reducing the computational complexity to a large extent. Based on this finding, we propose a novel Approximated Prompt Tuning (APT) approach towards efficient VL transfer learning. To validate APT, we apply it to two representative VLP models, namely ViLT and METER, and conduct extensive experiments on a bunch of downstream tasks. Meanwhile, the generalization of APT is also validated on CLIP for image classification. The experimental results not only show the superior performance gains and computation efficiency of APT against the conventional prompt tuning methods, e.g., +6.6% accuracy and -64.62% additional computation overhead on METER, but also confirm its merits over other parameter-efficient transfer learning approaches. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Face Morphing Attack Detection with Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15733  
**Abstract:** Morphed face images have recently become a growing concern for existing face verification systems, as they are relatively easy to generate and can be used to impersonate someone's identity for various malicious purposes. Efficient Morphing Attack Detection (MAD) that generalizes well across different morphing techniques is, therefore, of paramount importance. Existing MAD techniques predominantly rely on discriminative models that learn from examples of bona fide and morphed images and, as a result, often exhibit sub-optimal generalization performance when confronted with unknown types of morphing attacks. To address this problem, we propose a novel, diffusion-based MAD method in this paper that learns only from the characteristics of bona fide images. Various forms of morphing attacks are then detected by our model as out-of-distribution samples. We perform rigorous experiments over four different datasets (CASIA-WebFace, FRLL-Morphs, FERET-Morphs and FRGC-Morphs) and compare the proposed solution to both discriminatively-trained and once-class MAD models. The experimental results show that our MAD model achieves highly competitive results on all considered datasets. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Biomedical Entity Recognition by Detection and Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15736  
**Abstract:** Biomedical named entity recognition (BNER) serves as the foundation for numerous biomedical text mining tasks. Unlike general NER, BNER require a comprehensive grasp of the domain, and incorporating external knowledge beyond training data poses a significant challenge. In this study, we propose a novel BNER framework called DMNER. By leveraging existing entity representation models SAPBERT, we tackle BNER as a two-step process: entity boundary detection and biomedical entity matching. DMNER exhibits applicability across multiple NER scenarios: 1) In supervised NER, we observe that DMNER effectively rectifies the output of baseline NER models, thereby further enhancing performance. 2) In distantly supervised NER, combining MRC and AutoNER as span boundary detectors enables DMNER to achieve satisfactory results. 3) For training NER by merging multiple datasets, we adopt a framework similar to DS-NER but additionally leverage ChatGPT to obtain high-quality phrases in the training. Through extensive experiments conducted on 10 benchmark datasets, we demonstrate the versatility and effectiveness of DMNER. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Evaluating GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 on Grammatical Error Correction for  Brazilian Portuguese  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15788  
**Abstract:** We investigate the effectiveness of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, two large language models, as Grammatical Error Correction (GEC) tools for Brazilian Portuguese and compare their performance against Microsoft Word and Google Docs. We introduce a GEC dataset for Brazilian Portuguese with four categories: Grammar, Spelling, Internet, and Fast typing. Our results show that while GPT-4 has higher recall than other methods, LLMs tend to have lower precision, leading to overcorrection. This study demonstrates the potential of LLMs as practical GEC tools for Brazilian Portuguese and encourages further exploration of LLMs for non-English languages and other educational settings. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** HyenaDNA: Long-Range Genomic Sequence Modeling at Single Nucleotide  Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15794  
**Abstract:** Genomic (DNA) sequences encode an enormous amount of information for gene regulation and protein synthesis. Similar to natural language models, researchers have proposed foundation models in genomics to learn generalizable features from unlabeled genome data that can then be fine-tuned for downstream tasks such as identifying regulatory elements. Due to the quadratic scaling of attention, previous Transformer-based genomic models have used 512 to 4k tokens as context (<0.001% of the human genome), significantly limiting the modeling of long-range interactions in DNA. In addition, these methods rely on tokenizers to aggregate meaningful DNA units, losing single nucleotide resolution where subtle genetic variations can completely alter protein function via single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Recently, Hyena, a large language model based on implicit convolutions was shown to match attention in quality while allowing longer context lengths and lower time complexity. Leveraging Hyenas new long-range capabilities, we present HyenaDNA, a genomic foundation model pretrained on the human reference genome with context lengths of up to 1 million tokens at the single nucleotide-level, an up to 500x increase over previous dense attention-based models. HyenaDNA scales sub-quadratically in sequence length (training up to 160x faster than Transformer), uses single nucleotide tokens, and has full global context at each layer. We explore what longer context enables - including the first use of in-context learning in genomics for simple adaptation to novel tasks without updating pretrained model weights. On fine-tuned benchmarks from the Nucleotide Transformer, HyenaDNA reaches state-of-the-art (SotA) on 12 of 17 datasets using a model with orders of magnitude less parameters and pretraining data. On the GenomicBenchmarks, HyenaDNA surpasses SotA on all 8 datasets on average by +9 accuracy points. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** FLuRKA: Fast fused Low-Rank & Kernel Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15799  
**Abstract:** Many efficient approximate self-attention techniques have become prevalent since the inception of the transformer architecture. Two popular classes of these techniques are low-rank and kernel methods. Each of these methods has its own strengths. We observe these strengths synergistically complement each other and exploit these synergies to fuse low-rank and kernel methods, producing a new class of transformers: FLuRKA (Fast Low-Rank and Kernel Attention). FLuRKA provide sizable performance gains over these approximate techniques and are of high quality. We theoretically and empirically evaluate both the runtime performance and quality of FLuRKA. Our runtime analysis posits a variety of parameter configurations where FLuRKA exhibit speedups and our accuracy analysis bounds the error of FLuRKA with respect to full-attention. We instantiate three FLuRKA variants which experience empirical speedups of up to 3.3x and 1.7x over low-rank and kernel methods respectively. This translates to speedups of up to 30x over models with full-attention. With respect to model quality, FLuRKA can match the accuracy of low-rank and kernel methods on GLUE after pre-training on wiki-text 103. When pre-training on a fixed time budget, FLuRKA yield better perplexity scores than models with full-attention. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Classification of Infant Sleep/Wake States: Cross-Attention among Large  Scale Pretrained Transformer Networks using Audio, ECG, and IMU Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15808  
**Abstract:** Infant sleep is critical to brain and behavioral development. Prior studies on infant sleep/wake classification have been largely limited to reliance on expensive and burdensome polysomnography (PSG) tests in the laboratory or wearable devices that collect single-modality data. To facilitate data collection and accuracy of detection, we aimed to advance this field of study by using a multi-modal wearable device, LittleBeats (LB), to collect audio, electrocardiogram (ECG), and inertial measurement unit (IMU) data among a cohort of 28 infants. We employed a 3-branch (audio/ECG/IMU) large scale transformer-based neural network (NN) to demonstrate the potential of such multi-modal data. We pretrained each branch independently with its respective modality, then finetuned the model by fusing the pretrained transformer layers with cross-attention. We show that multi-modal data significantly improves sleep/wake classification (accuracy = 0.880), compared with use of a single modality (accuracy = 0.732). Our approach to multi-modal mid-level fusion may be adaptable to a diverse range of architectures and tasks, expanding future directions of infant behavioral research. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** MAT: Mixed-Strategy Game of Adversarial Training in Fine-tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15826  
**Abstract:** Fine-tuning large-scale pre-trained language models has been demonstrated effective for various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Previous studies have established that incorporating adversarial training during the fine-tuning stage can significantly enhance model generalization and robustness. However, from the perspective of game theory, such utilizations of adversarial training correspond to pure-strategy games, which are inherently limited in terms of the scope of their strategies, thereby still having room for improvement. In order to push the performance boundaries, we propose a novel Mixed-strategy Adversarial Training algorithm (MAT). Methodologically, we derive the Nash equilibrium of a mixed-strategy game for adversarial training using Entropy Mirror Descent to establish MAT by sampling method. To verify the effectiveness of MAT, we conducted extensive benchmark experiments on large-scale pre-trained models, such as BERT and RoBERTa. MAT significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on both the GLUE and ANLI benchmarks in terms of generalization and robustness. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Easing Color Shifts in Score-Based Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15832  
**Abstract:** Generated images of score-based models can suffer from errors in their spatial means, an effect, referred to as a color shift, which grows for larger images. This paper introduces a computationally inexpensive solution to mitigate color shifts in score-based diffusion models. We propose a simple nonlinear bypass connection in the score network, designed to process the spatial mean of the input and to predict the mean of the score function. This network architecture substantially improves the resulting spatial means of the generated images, and we show that the improvement is approximately independent of the size of the generated images. As a result, our solution offers a comparatively inexpensive solution for the color shift problem across image sizes. Lastly, we discuss the origin of color shifts in an idealized setting in order to motivate our approach. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Galerkin approximation of a nonlocal diffusion equation on Euclidean and  fractal domains  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15844  
**Abstract:** The continuum limit of a system of interacting particles on a convergent family of graphs can be described by a nonlocal evolution equation in the limit as the number of particles goes to infinity. Given the continuum limit, the discrete model can be viewed as a Galerkin approximation of the limiting continuous equation. We estimate the speed of convergence of the Galerkin scheme for the model at hand on Euclidean and fractal domains. The latter are relevant when the underlying family of graphs approximates a fractal. Conversely, this paper proposes a Galerkin scheme for a nonlocal diffusion equation on self--similar domains and establishes its convergence rate. Convergence analysis is complemented with numerical integration results for a model problem on Sierpinski Triangle. The rate of convergence of numerical solutions of the model problem fits well the analytical estimate. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Hybrid Distillation: Connecting Masked Autoencoders with Contrastive  Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15876  
**Abstract:** Representation learning has been evolving from traditional supervised training to Contrastive Learning (CL) and Masked Image Modeling (MIM). Previous works have demonstrated their pros and cons in specific scenarios, i.e., CL and supervised pre-training excel at capturing longer-range global patterns and enabling better feature discrimination, while MIM can introduce more local and diverse attention across all transformer layers. In this paper, we explore how to obtain a model that combines their strengths. We start by examining previous feature distillation and mask feature reconstruction methods and identify their limitations. We find that their increasing diversity mainly derives from the asymmetric designs, but these designs may in turn compromise the discrimination ability. In order to better obtain both discrimination and diversity, we propose a simple but effective Hybrid Distillation strategy, which utilizes both the supervised/CL teacher and the MIM teacher to jointly guide the student model. Hybrid Distill imitates the token relations of the MIM teacher to alleviate attention collapse, as well as distills the feature maps of the supervised/CL teacher to enable discrimination. Furthermore, a progressive redundant token masking strategy is also utilized to reduce the distilling costs and avoid falling into local optima. Experiment results prove that Hybrid Distill can achieve superior performance on different benchmarks. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Beyond the Hype: Assessing the Performance, Trustworthiness, and  Clinical Suitability of GPT3.5  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15887  
**Abstract:** The use of large language models (LLMs) in healthcare is gaining popularity, but their practicality and safety in clinical settings have not been thoroughly assessed. In high-stakes environments like medical settings, trust and safety are critical issues for LLMs. To address these concerns, we present an approach to evaluate the performance and trustworthiness of a GPT3.5 model for medical image protocol assignment. We compare it with a fine-tuned BERT model and a radiologist. In addition, we have a radiologist review the GPT3.5 output to evaluate its decision-making process. Our evaluation dataset consists of 4,700 physician entries across 11 imaging protocol classes spanning the entire head. Our findings suggest that the GPT3.5 performance falls behind BERT and a radiologist. However, GPT3.5 outperforms BERT in its ability to explain its decision, detect relevant word indicators, and model calibration. Furthermore, by analyzing the explanations of GPT3.5 for misclassifications, we reveal systematic errors that need to be resolved to enhance its safety and suitability for clinical use. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Asymptotic-Preserving Convolutional DeepONets Capture the Diffusive  Behavior of the Multiscale Linear Transport Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15891  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce two types of novel Asymptotic-Preserving Convolutional Deep Operator Networks (APCONs) designed to address the multiscale time-dependent linear transport problem. We observe that the vanilla physics-informed DeepONets with modified MLP may exhibit instability in maintaining the desired limiting macroscopic behavior. Therefore, this necessitates the utilization of an asymptotic-preserving loss function. Drawing inspiration from the heat kernel in the diffusion equation, we propose a new architecture called Convolutional Deep Operator Networks, which employ multiple local convolution operations instead of a global heat kernel, along with pooling and activation operations in each filter layer. Our APCON methods possess a parameter count that is independent of the grid size and are capable of capturing the diffusive behavior of the linear transport problem. Finally, we validate the effectiveness of our methods through several numerical examples. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Large Language Model as Attributed Training Data Generator: A Tale of  Diversity and Bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15895  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have been recently leveraged as training data generators for various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. While previous research has explored different approaches to training models using generated data, they generally rely on simple class-conditional prompts, which may limit the diversity of the generated data and inherit systematic biases of LLM. Thus, we investigate training data generation with diversely attributed prompts (e.g., specifying attributes like length and style), which have the potential to yield diverse and attributed generated data. Our investigation focuses on datasets with high cardinality and diverse domains, wherein we demonstrate that attributed prompts outperform simple class-conditional prompts in terms of the resulting model's performance. Additionally, we present a comprehensive empirical study on data generation encompassing vital aspects like bias, diversity, and efficiency, and highlight three key observations: firstly, synthetic datasets generated by simple prompts exhibit significant biases, such as regional bias; secondly, attribute diversity plays a pivotal role in enhancing model performance; lastly, attributed prompts achieve the performance of simple class-conditional prompts while utilizing only 5\% of the querying cost of ChatGPT associated with the latter. We release the generated dataset and used prompts to facilitate future research. The data and code will be available on \url{https://github.com/yueyu1030/AttrPrompt}. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Pseudo-Labeling Enhanced by Privileged Information and Its Application  to In Situ Sequencing Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15898  
**Abstract:** Various strategies for label-scarce object detection have been explored by the computer vision research community. These strategies mainly rely on assumptions that are specific to natural images and not directly applicable to the biological and biomedical vision domains. For example, most semi-supervised learning strategies rely on a small set of labeled data as a confident source of ground truth. In many biological vision applications, however, the ground truth is unknown and indirect information might be available in the form of noisy estimations or orthogonal evidence. In this work, we frame a crucial problem in spatial transcriptomics - decoding barcodes from In-Situ-Sequencing (ISS) images - as a semi-supervised object detection (SSOD) problem. Our proposed framework incorporates additional available sources of information into a semi-supervised learning framework in the form of privileged information. The privileged information is incorporated into the teacher's pseudo-labeling in a teacher-student self-training iteration. Although the available privileged information could be data domain specific, we have introduced a general strategy of pseudo-labeling enhanced by privileged information (PLePI) and exemplified the concept using ISS images, as well on the COCO benchmark using extra evidence provided by CLIP. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** The 2nd Place Solution for 2023 Waymo Open Sim Agents Challenge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15914  
**Abstract:** In this technical report, we present the 2nd place solution of 2023 Waymo Open Sim Agents Challenge (WOSAC)[4]. We propose a simple yet effective autoregressive method for simulating multi-agent behaviors, which is built upon a well-known multimodal motion forecasting framework called Motion Transformer (MTR)[5] with postprocessing algorithms applied. Our submission named MTR+++ achieves 0.4697 on the Realism Meta metric in 2023 WOSAC. Besides, a modified model based on MTR named MTR_E is proposed after the challenge, which has a better score 0.4911 and is ranked the 3rd on the leaderboard of WOSAC as of June 25, 2023. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Confidence-Calibrated Ensemble Dense Phrase Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15917  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we consider the extent to which the transformer-based Dense Passage Retrieval (DPR) algorithm, developed by (Karpukhin et. al. 2020), can be optimized without further pre-training. Our method involves two particular insights: we apply the DPR context encoder at various phrase lengths (e.g. one-sentence versus five-sentence segments), and we take a confidence-calibrated ensemble prediction over all of these different segmentations. This somewhat exhaustive approach achieves start-of-the-art results on benchmark datasets such as Google NQ and SQuAD. We also apply our method to domain-specific datasets, and the results suggest how different granularities are optimal for different domains 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Disentangled Variational Auto-encoder Enhanced by Counterfactual Data  for Debiasing Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15961  
**Abstract:** Recommender system always suffers from various recommendation biases, seriously hindering its development. In this light, a series of debias methods have been proposed in the recommender system, especially for two most common biases, i.e., popularity bias and amplified subjective bias. However, exsisting debias methods usually concentrate on correcting a single bias. Such single-functionality debiases neglect the bias-coupling issue in which the recommended items are collectively attributed to multiple biases. Besides, previous work cannot tackle the lacking supervised signals brought by sparse data, yet which has become a commonplace in the recommender system. In this work, we introduce a disentangled debias variational auto-encoder framework(DB-VAE) to address the single-functionality issue as well as a counterfactual data enhancement method to mitigate the adverse effect due to the data sparsity. In specific, DB-VAE first extracts two types of extreme items only affected by a single bias based on the collier theory, which are respectively employed to learn the latent representation of corresponding biases, thereby realizing the bias decoupling. In this way, the exact unbiased user representation can be learned by these decoupled bias representations. Furthermore, the data generation module employs Pearl's framework to produce massive counterfactual data, making up the lacking supervised signals due to the sparse data. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed model. Besides, the counterfactual data can further improve DB-VAE, especially on the dataset with low sparsity. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Tensorformer: Normalized Matrix Attention Transformer for High-quality  Point Cloud Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15989  
**Abstract:** Surface reconstruction from raw point clouds has been studied for decades in the computer graphics community, which is highly demanded by modeling and rendering applications nowadays. Classic solutions, such as Poisson surface reconstruction, require point normals as extra input to perform reasonable results. Modern transformer-based methods can work without normals, while the results are less fine-grained due to limited encoding performance in local fusion from discrete points. We introduce a novel normalized matrix attention transformer (Tensorformer) to perform high-quality reconstruction. The proposed matrix attention allows for simultaneous point-wise and channel-wise message passing, while the previous vector attention loses neighbor point information across different channels. It brings more degree of freedom in feature learning and thus facilitates better modeling of local geometries. Our method achieves state-of-the-art on two commonly used datasets, ShapeNetCore and ABC, and attains 4% improvements on IOU on ShapeNet. Our implementation will be released upon acceptance. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** MyDigitalFootprint: an extensive context dataset for pervasive computing  applications at the edge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15990  
**Abstract:** The widespread diffusion of connected smart devices has contributed to the rapid expansion and evolution of the Internet at its edge. Personal mobile devices interact with other smart objects in their surroundings, adapting behavior based on rapidly changing user context. The ability of mobile devices to process this data locally is crucial for quick adaptation. This can be achieved through a single elaboration process integrated into user applications or a middleware platform for context processing. However, the lack of public datasets considering user context complexity in the mobile environment hinders research progress. We introduce MyDigitalFootprint, a large-scale dataset comprising smartphone sensor data, physical proximity information, and Online Social Networks interactions. This dataset supports multimodal context recognition and social relationship modeling. It spans two months of measurements from 31 volunteer users in their natural environment, allowing for unrestricted behavior. Existing public datasets focus on limited context data for specific applications, while ours offers comprehensive information on the user context in the mobile environment. To demonstrate the dataset's effectiveness, we present three context-aware applications utilizing various machine learning tasks: (i) a social link prediction algorithm based on physical proximity data, (ii) daily-life activity recognition using smartphone-embedded sensors data, and (iii) a pervasive context-aware recommender system. Our dataset, with its heterogeneity of information, serves as a valuable resource to validate new research in mobile and edge computing. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Streamlining Social Media Information Retrieval for Public Health  Research with Deep Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16001  
**Abstract:** The utilization of social media in epidemic surveillance has been well established. Nonetheless, bias is often introduced when pre-defined lexicons are used to retrieve relevant corpus. This study introduces a framework aimed at curating extensive dictionaries of medical colloquialisms and Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) concepts. The framework comprises three modules: a BERT-based Named Entity Recognition (NER) model that identifies medical entities from social media content, a deep-learning powered normalization module that standardizes the extracted entities, and a semi-supervised clustering module that assigns the most probable UMLS concept to each standardized entity. We applied this framework to COVID-19-related tweets from February 1, 2020, to April 30, 2022, generating a symptom dictionary (available at https://github.com/ningkko/UMLS_colloquialism/) composed of 9,249 standardized entities mapped to 876 UMLS concepts and 38,175 colloquial expressions. This framework demonstrates encouraging potential in addressing the constraints of keyword matching information retrieval in social media-based public health research. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Accelerating Transducers through Adjacent Token Merging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16009  
**Abstract:** Recent end-to-end automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems often utilize a Transformer-based acoustic encoder that generates embedding at a high frame rate. However, this design is inefficient, particularly for long speech signals due to the quadratic computation of self-attention. To address this, we propose a new method, Adjacent Token Merging (A-ToMe), which gradually combines adjacent tokens with high similarity scores between their key values. In this way, the total time step could be reduced, and the inference of both the encoder and joint network is accelerated. Experiments on LibriSpeech show that our method can reduce 57% of tokens and improve the inference speed on GPU by 70% without any notable loss of accuracy. Additionally, we demonstrate that A-ToMe is also an effective solution to reduce tokens in long-form ASR, where the input speech consists of multiple utterances. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Toward Pioneering Sensors and Features Using Large Language Models in  Human Activity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16017  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a feature pioneering method using Large Language Models (LLMs). In the proposed method, we use Chat-GPT 1 to find new sensor locations and new features. Then we evaluate the machine learning model which uses the found features using Opportunity Dataset [ 4 , 9]. In current machine learning, humans make features, for this engineers visit real sites and have discussions with experts and veteran workers. However, this method has the problem that the quality of the features depends on the engineer. In order to solve this problem, we propose a way to make new features using LLMs. As a result, we obtain almost the same level of accuracy as the proposed model which used fewer sensors and the model uses all sensors in the dataset. This indicates that the proposed method is able to extract important features efficiently. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Challenges of Zero-Shot Recognition with Vision-Language Models:  Granularity and Correctness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16048  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the challenges of applying vision-language models (VLMs) to zero-shot visual recognition tasks in an open-world setting, with a focus on contrastive vision-language models such as CLIP. We first examine the performance of VLMs on concepts of different granularity levels. We propose a way to fairly evaluate the performance discrepancy under two experimental setups and find that VLMs are better at recognizing fine-grained concepts. Furthermore, we find that the similarity scores from VLMs do not strictly reflect the correctness of the textual inputs given visual input. We propose an evaluation protocol to test our hypothesis that the scores can be biased towards more informative descriptions, and the nature of the similarity score between embedding makes it challenging for VLMs to recognize the correctness between similar but wrong descriptions. Our study highlights the challenges of using VLMs in open-world settings and suggests directions for future research to improve their zero-shot capabilities. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** SVNR: Spatially-variant Noise Removal with Denoising Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16052  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models have recently shown impressive results in generative tasks. By learning powerful priors from huge collections of training images, such models are able to gradually modify complete noise to a clean natural image via a sequence of small denoising steps, seemingly making them well-suited for single image denoising. However, effectively applying denoising diffusion models to removal of realistic noise is more challenging than it may seem, since their formulation is based on additive white Gaussian noise, unlike noise in real-world images. In this work, we present SVNR, a novel formulation of denoising diffusion that assumes a more realistic, spatially-variant noise model. SVNR enables using the noisy input image as the starting point for the denoising diffusion process, in addition to conditioning the process on it. To this end, we adapt the diffusion process to allow each pixel to have its own time embedding, and propose training and inference schemes that support spatially-varying time maps. Our formulation also accounts for the correlation that exists between the condition image and the samples along the modified diffusion process. In our experiments we demonstrate the advantages of our approach over a strong diffusion model baseline, as well as over a state-of-the-art single image denoising method. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** UnitSpeech: Speaker-adaptive Speech Synthesis with Untranscribed Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16083  
**Abstract:** We propose UnitSpeech, a speaker-adaptive speech synthesis method that fine-tunes a diffusion-based text-to-speech (TTS) model using minimal untranscribed data. To achieve this, we use the self-supervised unit representation as a pseudo transcript and integrate the unit encoder into the pre-trained TTS model. We train the unit encoder to provide speech content to the diffusion-based decoder and then fine-tune the decoder for speaker adaptation to the reference speaker using a single $<$unit, speech$>$ pair. UnitSpeech performs speech synthesis tasks such as TTS and voice conversion (VC) in a personalized manner without requiring model re-training for each task. UnitSpeech achieves comparable and superior results on personalized TTS and any-to-any VC tasks compared to previous baselines. Our model also shows widespread adaptive performance on real-world data and other tasks that use a unit sequence as input. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Mass Spectra Prediction with Structural Motif-based Graph Neural  Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16085  
**Abstract:** Mass spectra, which are agglomerations of ionized fragments from targeted molecules, play a crucial role across various fields for the identification of molecular structures. A prevalent analysis method involves spectral library searches,where unknown spectra are cross-referenced with a database. The effectiveness of such search-based approaches, however, is restricted by the scope of the existing mass spectra database, underscoring the need to expand the database via mass spectra prediction. In this research, we propose the Motif-based Mass Spectrum Prediction Network (MoMS-Net), a system that predicts mass spectra using the information derived from structural motifs and the implementation of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). We have tested our model across diverse mass spectra and have observed its superiority over other existing models. MoMS-Net considers substructure at the graph level, which facilitates the incorporation of long-range dependencies while using less memory compared to the graph transformer model. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Is ChatGPT a Biomedical Expert? -- Exploring the Zero-Shot Performance  of Current GPT Models in Biomedical Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16108  
**Abstract:** We assessed the performance of commercial Large Language Models (LLMs) GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4 on tasks from the 2023 BioASQ challenge. In Task 11b Phase B, which is focused on answer generation, both models demonstrated competitive abilities with leading systems. Remarkably, they achieved this with simple zero-shot learning, grounded with relevant snippets. Even without relevant snippets, their performance was decent, though not on par with the best systems. Interestingly, the older and cheaper GPT-3.5-Turbo system was able to compete with GPT-4 in the grounded Q&A setting on factoid and list answers. In Task 11b Phase A, focusing on retrieval, query expansion through zero-shot learning improved performance, but the models fell short compared to other systems. The code needed to rerun these experiments is available through GitHub. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** A Framework for Identifying Depression on Social Media:  MentalRiskES@IberLEF 2023  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16125  
**Abstract:** This paper describes our participation in the MentalRiskES task at IberLEF 2023. The task involved predicting the likelihood of an individual experiencing depression based on their social media activity. The dataset consisted of conversations from 175 Telegram users, each labeled according to their evidence of suffering from the disorder. We used a combination of traditional machine learning and deep learning techniques to solve four predictive subtasks: binary classification, simple regression, multiclass classification, and multiclass regression. We approached this by training a model to solve the multiclass regression case and then transforming the predictions to work for the other three subtasks. We compare the performance of two different modeling approaches: fine-tuning a BERT-based model and using sentence embeddings as inputs to a linear regressor, with the latter yielding better results. The code to reproduce our results can be found at: https://github.com/simonsanvil/EarlyDepression-MentalRiskES. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Randomized Reduced Basis Methods for Parameterized Fractional Elliptic  PDEs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16148  
**Abstract:** This paper is interested in developing reduced order models (ROMs) for repeated simulation of fractional elliptic partial differential equations (PDEs) for multiple values of the parameters (e.g., diffusion coefficients or fractional exponent) governing these models. These problems arise in many applications including simulating Gaussian processes, and geophysical electromagnetics. The approach uses the Kato integral formula to express the solution as an integral involving the solution of a parametrized elliptic PDE, which is discretized using finite elements in space and sinc quadrature for the fractional part. The offline stage of the ROM is accelerated using a solver for shifted linear systems, MPGMRES-Sh, and using a randomized approach for compressing the snapshot matrix. Our approach is both computational and memory efficient. Numerical experiments on a range of model problems, including an application to Gaussian processes, show the benefits of our approach. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** $\mathbf{C}^2$Former: Calibrated and Complementary Transformer for  RGB-Infrared Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16175  
**Abstract:** Object detection on visible (RGB) and infrared (IR) images, as an emerging solution to facilitate robust detection for around-the-clock applications, has received extensive attention in recent years. With the help of IR images, object detectors have been more reliable and robust in practical applications by using RGB-IR combined information. However, existing methods still suffer from modality miscalibration and fusion imprecision problems. Since transformer has the powerful capability to model the pairwise correlations between different features, in this paper, we propose a novel Calibrated and Complementary Transformer called $\mathrm{C}^2$Former to address these two problems simultaneously. In $\mathrm{C}^2$Former, we design an Inter-modality Cross-Attention (ICA) module to obtain the calibrated and complementary features by learning the cross-attention relationship between the RGB and IR modality. To reduce the computational cost caused by computing the global attention in ICA, an Adaptive Feature Sampling (AFS) module is introduced to decrease the dimension of feature maps. Because $\mathrm{C}^2$Former performs in the feature domain, it can be embedded into existed RGB-IR object detectors via the backbone network. Thus, one single-stage and one two-stage object detector both incorporating our $\mathrm{C}^2$Former are constructed to evaluate its effectiveness and versatility. With extensive experiments on the DroneVehicle and KAIST RGB-IR datasets, we verify that our method can fully utilize the RGB-IR complementary information and achieve robust detection results. The code is available at https://github.com/yuanmaoxun/Calibrated-and-Complementary-Transformer-for-RGB-Infrared-Object-Detection.git. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** SkillNet-X: A Multilingual Multitask Model with Sparsely Activated  Skills  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16176  
**Abstract:** Traditional multitask learning methods basically can only exploit common knowledge in task- or language-wise, which lose either cross-language or cross-task knowledge. This paper proposes a general multilingual multitask model, named SkillNet-X, which enables a single model to tackle many different tasks from different languages. To this end, we define several language-specific skills and task-specific skills, each of which corresponds to a skill module. SkillNet-X sparsely activates parts of the skill modules which are relevant either to the target task or the target language. Acting as knowledge transit hubs, skill modules are capable of absorbing task-related knowledge and language-related knowledge consecutively. Based on Transformer, we modify the multi-head attention layer and the feed forward network layer to accommodate skill modules. We evaluate SkillNet-X on eleven natural language understanding datasets in four languages. Results show that SkillNet-X performs better than task-specific baselines and two multitask learning baselines (i.e., dense joint model and Mixture-of-Experts model). Furthermore, skill pre-training further improves the performance of SkillNet-X on almost all datasets. To investigate the generalization of our model, we conduct experiments on two new tasks and find that SkillNet-X significantly outperforms baselines. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Inferring the Goals of Communicating Agents from Actions and  Instructions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16207  
**Abstract:** When humans cooperate, they frequently coordinate their activity through both verbal communication and non-verbal actions, using this information to infer a shared goal and plan. How can we model this inferential ability? In this paper, we introduce a model of a cooperative team where one agent, the principal, may communicate natural language instructions about their shared plan to another agent, the assistant, using GPT-3 as a likelihood function for instruction utterances. We then show how a third person observer can infer the team's goal via multi-modal Bayesian inverse planning from actions and instructions, computing the posterior distribution over goals under the assumption that agents will act and communicate rationally to achieve them. We evaluate this approach by comparing it with human goal inferences in a multi-agent gridworld, finding that our model's inferences closely correlate with human judgments (R = 0.96). When compared to inference from actions alone, we also find that instructions lead to more rapid and less uncertain goal inference, highlighting the importance of verbal communication for cooperative agents. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Leveraging GPT-4 for Food Effect Summarization to Enhance  Product-Specific Guidance Development via Iterative Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16275  
**Abstract:** Food effect summarization from New Drug Application (NDA) is an essential component of product-specific guidance (PSG) development and assessment. However, manual summarization of food effect from extensive drug application review documents is time-consuming, which arouses a need to develop automated methods. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, have demonstrated great potential in improving the effectiveness of automated text summarization, but its ability regarding the accuracy in summarizing food effect for PSG assessment remains unclear. In this study, we introduce a simple yet effective approach, iterative prompting, which allows one to interact with ChatGPT or GPT-4 more effectively and efficiently through multi-turn interaction. Specifically, we propose a three-turn iterative prompting approach to food effect summarization in which the keyword-focused and length-controlled prompts are respectively provided in consecutive turns to refine the quality of the generated summary. We conduct a series of extensive evaluations, ranging from automated metrics to FDA professionals and even evaluation by GPT-4, on 100 NDA review documents selected over the past five years. We observe that the summary quality is progressively improved throughout the process. Moreover, we find that GPT-4 performs better than ChatGPT, as evaluated by FDA professionals (43% vs. 12%) and GPT-4 (64% vs. 35%). Importantly, all the FDA professionals unanimously rated that 85% of the summaries generated by GPT-4 are factually consistent with the golden reference summary, a finding further supported by GPT-4 rating of 72% consistency. These results strongly suggest a great potential for GPT-4 to draft food effect summaries that could be reviewed by FDA professionals, thereby improving the efficiency of PSG assessment cycle and promoting the generic drug product development. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** ChatGPT may excel in States Medical Licensing Examination but falters in  basic Linear Algebra  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16282  
**Abstract:** The emergence of ChatGPT has been rapid, and although it has demonstrated positive impacts in certain domains, its influence is not universally advantageous. Our analysis focuses on ChatGPT's capabilities in Mathematics Education, particularly in teaching basic Linear Algebra. While there are instances where ChatGPT delivers accurate and well-motivated answers, it is crucial to recognize numerous cases where it makes significant mathematical errors and fails in logical inference. These occurrences raise concerns regarding the system's genuine understanding of mathematics, as it appears to rely more on visual patterns rather than true comprehension. Additionally, the suitability of ChatGPT as a teacher for students also warrants consideration. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Taqyim: Evaluating Arabic NLP Tasks Using ChatGPT Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16322  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance on various downstream tasks without requiring fine-tuning, including ChatGPT, a chat-based model built on top of LLMs such as GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. Despite having a lower training proportion compared to English, these models also exhibit remarkable capabilities in other languages. In this study, we assess the performance of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models on seven distinct Arabic NLP tasks: sentiment analysis, translation, transliteration, paraphrasing, part of speech tagging, summarization, and diacritization. Our findings reveal that GPT-4 outperforms GPT-3.5 on five out of the seven tasks. Furthermore, we conduct an extensive analysis of the sentiment analysis task, providing insights into how LLMs achieve exceptional results on a challenging dialectal dataset. Additionally, we introduce a new Python interface https://github.com/ARBML/Taqyim that facilitates the evaluation of these tasks effortlessly. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** DiffComplete: Diffusion-based Generative 3D Shape Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16329  
**Abstract:** We introduce a new diffusion-based approach for shape completion on 3D range scans. Compared with prior deterministic and probabilistic methods, we strike a balance between realism, multi-modality, and high fidelity. We propose DiffComplete by casting shape completion as a generative task conditioned on the incomplete shape. Our key designs are two-fold. First, we devise a hierarchical feature aggregation mechanism to inject conditional features in a spatially-consistent manner. So, we can capture both local details and broader contexts of the conditional inputs to control the shape completion. Second, we propose an occupancy-aware fusion strategy in our model to enable the completion of multiple partial shapes and introduce higher flexibility on the input conditions. DiffComplete sets a new SOTA performance (e.g., 40% decrease on l_1 error) on two large-scale 3D shape completion benchmarks. Our completed shapes not only have a realistic outlook compared with the deterministic methods but also exhibit high similarity to the ground truths compared with the probabilistic alternatives. Further, DiffComplete has strong generalizability on objects of entirely unseen classes for both synthetic and real data, eliminating the need for model re-training in various applications. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Multi-Site Clinical Federated Learning using Recursive and Attentive  Models and NVFlare  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16367  
**Abstract:** The prodigious growth of digital health data has precipitated a mounting interest in harnessing machine learning methodologies, such as natural language processing (NLP), to scrutinize medical records, clinical notes, and other text-based health information. Although NLP techniques have exhibited substantial potential in augmenting patient care and informing clinical decision-making, data privacy and adherence to regulations persist as critical concerns. Federated learning (FL) emerges as a viable solution, empowering multiple organizations to train machine learning models collaboratively without disseminating raw data. This paper proffers a pragmatic approach to medical NLP by amalgamating FL, NLP models, and the NVFlare framework, developed by NVIDIA. We introduce two exemplary NLP models, the Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM)-based model and Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), which have demonstrated exceptional performance in comprehending context and semantics within medical data. This paper encompasses the development of an integrated framework that addresses data privacy and regulatory compliance challenges while maintaining elevated accuracy and performance, incorporating BERT pretraining, and comprehensively substantiating the efficacy of the proposed approach. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Voicebox: Text-Guided Multilingual Universal Speech Generation at Scale  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15687  
**Abstract:** Large-scale generative models such as GPT and DALL-E have revolutionized natural language processing and computer vision research. These models not only generate high fidelity text or image outputs, but are also generalists which can solve tasks not explicitly taught. In contrast, speech generative models are still primitive in terms of scale and task generalization. In this paper, we present Voicebox, the most versatile text-guided generative model for speech at scale. Voicebox is a non-autoregressive flow-matching model trained to infill speech, given audio context and text, trained on over 50K hours of speech that are neither filtered nor enhanced. Similar to GPT, Voicebox can perform many different tasks through in-context learning, but is more flexible as it can also condition on future context. Voicebox can be used for mono or cross-lingual zero-shot text-to-speech synthesis, noise removal, content editing, style conversion, and diverse sample generation. In particular, Voicebox outperforms the state-of-the-art zero-shot TTS model VALL-E on both intelligibility (5.9% vs 1.9% word error rates) and audio similarity (0.580 vs 0.681) while being up to 20 times faster. See voicebox.metademolab.com for a demo of the model. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Utilizing Segment Anything Model For Assessing Localization of GRAD-CAM  in Medical Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15692  
**Abstract:** The introduction of saliency map algorithms as an approach for assessing the interoperability of images has allowed for a deeper understanding of current black-box models with Artificial Intelligence. Their rise in popularity has led to these algorithms being applied in multiple fields, including medical imaging. With a classification task as important as those in the medical domain, a need for rigorous testing of their capabilities arises. Current works examine capabilities through assessing the localization of saliency maps upon medical abnormalities within an image, through comparisons with human annotations. We propose utilizing Segment Anything Model (SAM) to both further the accuracy of such existing metrics, while also generalizing beyond the need for human annotations. Our results show both high degrees of similarity to existing metrics while also highlighting the capabilities of this methodology to beyond human-annotation. Furthermore, we explore the applications (and challenges) of SAM within the medical domain, including image pre-processing before segmenting, natural language proposals to SAM in the form of CLIP-SAM, and SAM accuracy across multiple medical imaging datasets. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Strict separation and numerical approximation for a non-local  Cahn-Hilliard equation with single-well potential  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15819  
**Abstract:** In this paper we study a non-local Cahn-Hilliard equation with singular single-well potential and degenerate mobility. This results as a particular case of a more general model derived for a binary, saturated, closed and incompressible mixture, composed by a tumor phase and a healthy phase, evolving in a bounded domain. The general system couples a Darcy-type evolution for the average velocity field with a convective reaction-diffusion type evolution for the nutrient concentration and a non-local convective Cahn-Hilliard equation for the tumor phase. The main mathematical difficulties are related to the proof of the separation property for the tumor phase in the Cahn-Hilliard equation: up to our knowledge, such problem is indeed open in the literature. For this reason, in the present contribution we restrict the analytical study to the Cahn-Hilliard equation only. For the non-local Cahn- Hilliard equation with singular single-well potential and degenerate mobility, we study the existence and uniqueness of weak solutions for spatial dimensions $d\leq 3$. After showing existence, we prove the strict separation property in three spatial dimensions, implying the same property also for lower spatial dimensions, which opens the way to the proof of uniqueness of solutions. Finally, we propose a well posed and gradient stable continuous finite element approximation of the model for $d\leq 3$, which preserves the physical properties of the continuos solution and which is computationally efficient, and we show simulation results in two spatial dimensions which prove the consistency of the proposed scheme and which describe the phase ordering dynamics associated to the system. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Discovering stochastic partial differential equations from limited data  using variational Bayes inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15873  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel framework for discovering Stochastic Partial Differential Equations (SPDEs) from data. The proposed approach combines the concepts of stochastic calculus, variational Bayes theory, and sparse learning. We propose the extended Kramers-Moyal expansion to express the drift and diffusion terms of an SPDE in terms of state responses and use Spike-and-Slab priors with sparse learning techniques to efficiently and accurately discover the underlying SPDEs. The proposed approach has been applied to three canonical SPDEs, (a) stochastic heat equation, (b) stochastic Allen-Cahn equation, and (c) stochastic Nagumo equation. Our results demonstrate that the proposed approach can accurately identify the underlying SPDEs with limited data. This is the first attempt at discovering SPDEs from data, and it has significant implications for various scientific applications, such as climate modeling, financial forecasting, and chemical kinetics. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Reconstructing the Hemodynamic Response Function via a Bimodal  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.15971  
**Abstract:** The relationship between blood flow and neuronal activity is widely recognized, with blood flow frequently serving as a surrogate for neuronal activity in fMRI studies. At the microscopic level, neuronal activity has been shown to influence blood flow in nearby blood vessels. This study introduces the first predictive model that addresses this issue directly at the explicit neuronal population level. Using in vivo recordings in awake mice, we employ a novel spatiotemporal bimodal transformer architecture to infer current blood flow based on both historical blood flow and ongoing spontaneous neuronal activity. Our findings indicate that incorporating neuronal activity significantly enhances the model's ability to predict blood flow values. Through analysis of the model's behavior, we propose hypotheses regarding the largely unexplored nature of the hemodynamic response to neuronal activity. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** 1M parameters are enough? A lightweight CNN-based model for medical  image segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16103  
**Abstract:** Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and Transformer-based models are being widely applied in medical image segmentation thanks to their ability to extract high-level features and capture important aspects of the image. However, there is often a trade-off between the need for high accuracy and the desire for low computational cost. A model with higher parameters can theoretically achieve better performance but also result in more computational complexity and higher memory usage, and thus is not practical to implement. In this paper, we look for a lightweight U-Net-based model which can remain the same or even achieve better performance, namely U-Lite. We design U-Lite based on the principle of Depthwise Separable Convolution so that the model can both leverage the strength of CNNs and reduce a remarkable number of computing parameters. Specifically, we propose Axial Depthwise Convolutions with kernels 7x7 in both the encoder and decoder to enlarge the model receptive field. To further improve the performance, we use several Axial Dilated Depthwise Convolutions with filters 3x3 for the bottleneck as one of our branches. Overall, U-Lite contains only 878K parameters, 35 times less than the traditional U-Net, and much more times less than other modern Transformer-based models. The proposed model cuts down a large amount of computational complexity while attaining an impressive performance on medical segmentation tasks compared to other state-of-the-art architectures. The code will be available at: https://github.com/duong-db/U-Lite. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** DoseDiff: Distance-aware Diffusion Model for Dose Prediction in  Radiotherapy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.16324  
**Abstract:** Treatment planning is a critical component of the radiotherapy workflow, typically carried out by a medical physicist using a time-consuming trial-and-error manner. Previous studies have proposed knowledge-based or deep learning-based methods for predicting dose distribution maps to assist medical physicists in improving the efficiency of treatment planning. However, these dose prediction methods usuallylack the effective utilization of distance information between surrounding tissues andtargets or organs-at-risk (OARs). Moreover, they are poor in maintaining the distribution characteristics of ray paths in the predicted dose distribution maps, resulting in a loss of valuable information obtained by medical physicists. In this paper, we propose a distance-aware diffusion model (DoseDiff) for precise prediction of dose distribution. We define dose prediction as a sequence of denoising steps, wherein the predicted dose distribution map is generated with the conditions of the CT image and signed distance maps (SDMs). The SDMs are obtained by a distance transformation from the masks of targets or OARs, which provide the distance information from each pixel in the image to the outline of the targets or OARs. Besides, we propose a multiencoder and multi-scale fusion network (MMFNet) that incorporates a multi-scale fusion and a transformer-based fusion module to enhance information fusion between the CT image and SDMs at the feature level. Our model was evaluated on two datasets collected from patients with breast cancer and nasopharyngeal cancer, respectively. The results demonstrate that our DoseDiff outperforms the state-of-the-art dose prediction methods in terms of both quantitative and visual quality. 

