**ID:** 1  
**Title:** DiffLoad: Uncertainty Quantification in Load Forecasting with Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01001  
**Abstract:** Electrical load forecasting is of great significance for the decision makings in power systems, such as unit commitment and energy management. In recent years, various self-supervised neural network-based methods have been applied to electrical load forecasting to improve forecasting accuracy and capture uncertainties. However, most current methods are based on Gaussian likelihood methods, which aim to accurately estimate the distribution expectation under a given covariate. This kind of approach is difficult to adapt to situations where temporal data has a distribution shift and outliers. In this paper, we propose a diffusion-based Seq2seq structure to estimate epistemic uncertainty and use the robust additive Cauchy distribution to estimate aleatoric uncertainty. Rather than accurately forecasting conditional expectations, we demonstrate our method's ability in separating two types of uncertainties and dealing with the mutant scenarios. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Scaling Evidence-based Instructional Design Expertise through Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01006  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a comprehensive exploration of leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4, in the field of instructional design. With a focus on scaling evidence-based instructional design expertise, our research aims to bridge the gap between theoretical educational studies and practical implementation. We discuss the benefits and limitations of AI-driven content generation, emphasizing the necessity of human oversight in ensuring the quality of educational materials. This work is elucidated through two detailed case studies where we applied GPT-4 in creating complex higher-order assessments and active learning components for different courses. From our experiences, we provide best practices for effectively using LLMs in instructional design tasks, such as utilizing templates, fine-tuning, handling unexpected output, implementing LLM chains, citing references, evaluating output, creating rubrics, grading, and generating distractors. We also share our vision of a future recommendation system, where a customized GPT-4 extracts instructional design principles from educational studies and creates personalized, evidence-supported strategies for users' unique educational contexts. Our research contributes to understanding and optimally harnessing the potential of AI-driven language models in enhancing educational outcomes. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Examining the Emergence of Deductive Reasoning in Generative Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01009  
**Abstract:** We conduct a preliminary inquiry into the ability of generative transformer models to deductively reason from premises provided. We observe notable differences in the performance of models coming from different training setups and find that the deductive reasoning ability increases with scale. Further, we discover that the performance generally does not decrease with the length of the deductive chain needed to reach the conclusion, with the exception of OpenAI GPT-3 and GPT-3.5 models. Our study considers a wide variety of transformer-decoder models, ranging from 117 million to 175 billion parameters in size. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Quantization-Aware and Tensor-Compressed Training of Transformers for  Natural Language Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01076  
**Abstract:** Fine-tuned transformer models have shown superior performances in many natural language tasks. However, the large model size prohibits deploying high-performance transformer models on resource-constrained devices. This paper proposes a quantization-aware tensor-compressed training approach to reduce the model size, arithmetic operations, and ultimately runtime latency of transformer-based models. We compress the embedding and linear layers of transformers into small low-rank tensor cores, which significantly reduces model parameters. A quantization-aware training with learnable scale factors is used to further obtain low-precision representations of the tensor-compressed models. The developed approach can be used for both end-to-end training and distillation-based training. To improve the convergence, a layer-by-layer distillation is applied to distill a quantized and tensor-compressed student model from a pre-trained transformer. The performance is demonstrated in two natural language understanding tasks, showing up to $63\times$ compression ratio, little accuracy loss and remarkable inference and training speedup. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Exploration on HuBERT with Multiple Resolutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01084  
**Abstract:** Hidden-unit BERT (HuBERT) is a widely-used self-supervised learning (SSL) model in speech processing. However, we argue that its fixed 20ms resolution for hidden representations would not be optimal for various speech-processing tasks since their attributes (e.g., speaker characteristics and semantics) are based on different time scales. To address this limitation, we propose utilizing HuBERT representations at multiple resolutions for downstream tasks. We explore two approaches, namely the parallel and hierarchical approaches, for integrating HuBERT features with different resolutions. Through experiments, we demonstrate that HuBERT with multiple resolutions outperforms the original model. This highlights the potential of utilizing multiple resolutions in SSL models like HuBERT to capture diverse information from speech signals. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** UCAS-IIE-NLP at SemEval-2023 Task 12: Enhancing Generalization of  Multilingual BERT for Low-resource Sentiment Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01093  
**Abstract:** This paper describes our system designed for SemEval-2023 Task 12: Sentiment analysis for African languages. The challenge faced by this task is the scarcity of labeled data and linguistic resources in low-resource settings. To alleviate these, we propose a generalized multilingual system SACL-XLMR for sentiment analysis on low-resource languages. Specifically, we design a lexicon-based multilingual BERT to facilitate language adaptation and sentiment-aware representation learning. Besides, we apply a supervised adversarial contrastive learning technique to learn sentiment-spread structured representations and enhance model generalization. Our system achieved competitive results, largely outperforming baselines on both multilingual and zero-shot sentiment classification subtasks. Notably, the system obtained the 1st rank on the zero-shot classification subtask in the official ranking. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our system. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Exploring the Versatility of Zero-Shot CLIP for Interstitial Lung  Disease Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01111  
**Abstract:** Interstitial lung diseases (ILD) present diagnostic challenges due to their varied manifestations and overlapping imaging features. To address this, we propose a machine learning approach that utilizes CLIP, a multimodal (image and text) self-supervised model, for ILD classification. We extensively integrate zero-shot CLIP throughout our workflow, starting from the initial extraction of image patches from volumetric CT scans and proceeding to ILD classification using "patch montages". Furthermore, we investigate how domain adaptive pretraining (DAPT) CLIP with task-specific images (CT "patch montages" extracted with ILD-specific prompts for CLIP) and/or text (lung-specific sections of radiology reports) affects downstream ILD classification performance. By leveraging CLIP-extracted "patch montages" and DAPT, we achieve strong zero-shot ILD classification results, including an AUROC of 0.893, without the need for any labeled training data. This work highlights the versatility and potential of multimodal models like CLIP for medical image classification tasks where labeled data is scarce. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Learning Transformer Programs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01128  
**Abstract:** Recent research in mechanistic interpretability has attempted to reverse-engineer Transformer models by carefully inspecting network weights and activations. However, these approaches require considerable manual effort and still fall short of providing complete, faithful descriptions of the underlying algorithms. In this work, we introduce a procedure for training Transformers that are mechanistically interpretable by design. We build on RASP [Weiss et al., 2021], a programming language that can be compiled into Transformer weights. Instead of compiling human-written programs into Transformers, we design a modified Transformer that can be trained using gradient-based optimization and then be automatically converted into a discrete, human-readable program. We refer to these models as Transformer Programs. To validate our approach, we learn Transformer Programs for a variety of problems, including an in-context learning task, a suite of algorithmic problems (e.g. sorting, recognizing Dyck-languages), and NLP tasks including named entity recognition and text classification. The Transformer Programs can automatically find reasonable solutions, performing on par with standard Transformers of comparable size; and, more importantly, they are easy to interpret. To demonstrate these advantages, we convert Transformers into Python programs and use off-the-shelf code analysis tools to debug model errors and identify the ``circuits'' used to solve different sub-problems. We hope that Transformer Programs open a new path toward the goal of intrinsically interpretable machine learning. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** White-Box Transformers via Sparse Rate Reduction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01129  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we contend that the objective of representation learning is to compress and transform the distribution of the data, say sets of tokens, towards a mixture of low-dimensional Gaussian distributions supported on incoherent subspaces. The quality of the final representation can be measured by a unified objective function called sparse rate reduction. From this perspective, popular deep networks such as transformers can be naturally viewed as realizing iterative schemes to optimize this objective incrementally. Particularly, we show that the standard transformer block can be derived from alternating optimization on complementary parts of this objective: the multi-head self-attention operator can be viewed as a gradient descent step to compress the token sets by minimizing their lossy coding rate, and the subsequent multi-layer perceptron can be viewed as attempting to sparsify the representation of the tokens. This leads to a family of white-box transformer-like deep network architectures which are mathematically fully interpretable. Despite their simplicity, experiments show that these networks indeed learn to optimize the designed objective: they compress and sparsify representations of large-scale real-world vision datasets such as ImageNet, and achieve performance very close to thoroughly engineered transformers such as ViT. Code is at \url{https://github.com/Ma-Lab-Berkeley/CRATE}. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Addressing Discrepancies in Semantic and Visual Alignment in Neural  Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01148  
**Abstract:** For the task of image classification, neural networks primarily rely on visual patterns. In robust networks, we would expect for visually similar classes to be represented similarly. We consider the problem of when semantically similar classes are visually dissimilar, and when visual similarity is present among non-similar classes. We propose a data augmentation technique with the goal of better aligning semantically similar classes with arbitrary (non-visual) semantic relationships. We leverage recent work in diffusion-based semantic mixing to generate semantic hybrids of two classes, and these hybrids are added to the training set as augmented data. We evaluate whether the method increases semantic alignment by evaluating model performance on adversarially perturbed data, with the idea that it should be easier for an adversary to switch one class to a similarly represented class. Results demonstrate that there is an increase in alignment of semantically similar classes when using our proposed data augmentation method. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Faster Causal Attention Over Large Sequences Through Sparse Flash  Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01160  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based language models have found many diverse applications requiring them to process sequences of increasing length. For these applications, the causal self-attention -- which is the only component scaling quadratically w.r.t. the sequence length -- becomes a central concern. While many works have proposed schemes to sparsify the attention patterns and reduce the computational overhead of self-attention, those are often limited by implementations concerns and end up imposing a simple and static structure over the attention matrix. Conversely, implementing more dynamic sparse attentions often results in runtimes significantly slower than computing the full attention using the Flash implementation from Dao et al. (2022). We extend FlashAttention to accommodate a large class of attention sparsity patterns that, in particular, encompass key/query dropping and hashing-based attention. This leads to implementations with no computational complexity overhead and a multi-fold runtime speedup on top of FlashAttention. Even with relatively low degrees of sparsity, our method improves visibly upon FlashAttention as the sequence length increases. Without sacrificing perplexity, we increase the training speed of a transformer language model by $2.0\times$ and $3.3\times$ for sequences of respectively $8k$ and $16k$ tokens. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Hybrid Long Document Summarization using C2F-FAR and ChatGPT: A  Practical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01169  
**Abstract:** Text summarization is a downstream natural language processing (NLP) task that challenges the understanding and generation capabilities of language models. Considerable progress has been made in automatically summarizing short texts, such as news articles, often leading to satisfactory results. However, summarizing long documents remains a major challenge. This is due to the complex contextual information in the text and the lack of open-source benchmarking datasets and evaluation frameworks that can be used to develop and test model performance. In this work, we use ChatGPT, the latest breakthrough in the field of large language models (LLMs), together with the extractive summarization model C2F-FAR (Coarse-to-Fine Facet-Aware Ranking) to propose a hybrid extraction and summarization pipeline for long documents such as business articles and books. We work with the world-renowned company getAbstract AG and leverage their expertise and experience in professional book summarization. A practical study has shown that machine-generated summaries can perform at least as well as human-written summaries when evaluated using current automated evaluation metrics. However, a closer examination of the texts generated by ChatGPT through human evaluations has shown that there are still critical issues in terms of text coherence, faithfulness, and style. Overall, our results show that the use of ChatGPT is a very promising but not yet mature approach for summarizing long documents and can at best serve as an inspiration for human editors. We anticipate that our work will inform NLP researchers about the extent to which ChatGPT's capabilities for summarizing long documents overlap with practitioners' needs. Further work is needed to test the proposed hybrid summarization pipeline, in particular involving GPT-4, and to propose a new evaluation framework tailored to the task of summarizing long documents. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Systematic Evaluation of GPT-3 for Zero-Shot Personality Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01183  
**Abstract:** Very large language models (LLMs) perform extremely well on a spectrum of NLP tasks in a zero-shot setting. However, little is known about their performance on human-level NLP problems which rely on understanding psychological concepts, such as assessing personality traits. In this work, we investigate the zero-shot ability of GPT-3 to estimate the Big 5 personality traits from users' social media posts. Through a set of systematic experiments, we find that zero-shot GPT-3 performance is somewhat close to an existing pre-trained SotA for broad classification upon injecting knowledge about the trait in the prompts. However, when prompted to provide fine-grained classification, its performance drops to close to a simple most frequent class (MFC) baseline. We further analyze where GPT-3 performs better, as well as worse, than a pretrained lexical model, illustrating systematic errors that suggest ways to improve LLMs on human-level NLP tasks. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** An Effective Meaningful Way to Evaluate Survival Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01196  
**Abstract:** One straightforward metric to evaluate a survival prediction model is based on the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) -- the average of the absolute difference between the time predicted by the model and the true event time, over all subjects. Unfortunately, this is challenging because, in practice, the test set includes (right) censored individuals, meaning we do not know when a censored individual actually experienced the event. In this paper, we explore various metrics to estimate MAE for survival datasets that include (many) censored individuals. Moreover, we introduce a novel and effective approach for generating realistic semi-synthetic survival datasets to facilitate the evaluation of metrics. Our findings, based on the analysis of the semi-synthetic datasets, reveal that our proposed metric (MAE using pseudo-observations) is able to rank models accurately based on their performance, and often closely matches the true MAE -- in particular, is better than several alternative methods. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Multi-Dimensional Evaluation of Text Summarization with In-Context  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01200  
**Abstract:** Evaluation of natural language generation (NLG) is complex and multi-dimensional. Generated text can be evaluated for fluency, coherence, factuality, or any other dimensions of interest. Most frameworks that perform such multi-dimensional evaluation require training on large manually or synthetically generated datasets. In this paper, we study the efficacy of large language models as multi-dimensional evaluators using in-context learning, obviating the need for large training datasets. Our experiments show that in-context learning-based evaluators are competitive with learned evaluation frameworks for the task of text summarization, establishing state-of-the-art on dimensions such as relevance and factual consistency. We then analyze the effects of factors such as the selection and number of in-context examples on performance. Finally, we study the efficacy of in-context learning based evaluators in evaluating zero-shot summaries written by large language models such as GPT-3. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Learning Causally Disentangled Representations via the Principle of  Independent Causal Mechanisms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01213  
**Abstract:** Learning disentangled causal representations is a challenging problem that has gained significant attention recently due to its implications for extracting meaningful information for downstream tasks. In this work, we define a new notion of causal disentanglement from the perspective of independent causal mechanisms. We propose ICM-VAE, a framework for learning causally disentangled representations supervised by causally related observed labels. We model causal mechanisms using learnable flow-based diffeomorphic functions to map noise variables to latent causal variables. Further, to promote the disentanglement of causal factors, we propose a causal disentanglement prior that utilizes the known causal structure to encourage learning a causally factorized distribution in the latent space. Under relatively mild conditions, we provide theoretical results showing the identifiability of causal factors and mechanisms up to permutation and elementwise reparameterization. We empirically demonstrate that our framework induces highly disentangled causal factors, improves interventional robustness, and is compatible with counterfactual generation. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Generative AI for Product Design: Getting the Right Design and the  Design Right  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01217  
**Abstract:** Generative AI (GenAI) models excel in their ability to recognize patterns in existing data and generate new and unexpected content. Recent advances have motivated applications of GenAI tools (e.g., Stable Diffusion, ChatGPT) to professional practice across industries, including product design. While these generative capabilities may seem enticing on the surface, certain barriers limit their practical application for real-world use in industry settings. In this position paper, we articulate and situate these barriers within two phases of the product design process, namely "getting the right design" and "getting the design right," and propose a research agenda to stimulate discussions around opportunities for realizing the full potential of GenAI tools in product design. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** How Ready are Pre-trained Abstractive Models and LLMs for Legal Case  Judgement Summarization?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01248  
**Abstract:** Automatic summarization of legal case judgements has traditionally been attempted by using extractive summarization methods. However, in recent years, abstractive summarization models are gaining popularity since they can generate more natural and coherent summaries. Legal domain-specific pre-trained abstractive summarization models are now available. Moreover, general-domain pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, are known to generate high-quality text and have the capacity for text summarization. Hence it is natural to ask if these models are ready for off-the-shelf application to automatically generate abstractive summaries for case judgements. To explore this question, we apply several state-of-the-art domain-specific abstractive summarization models and general-domain LLMs on Indian court case judgements, and check the quality of the generated summaries. In addition to standard metrics for summary quality, we check for inconsistencies and hallucinations in the summaries. We see that abstractive summarization models generally achieve slightly higher scores than extractive models in terms of standard summary evaluation metrics such as ROUGE and BLEU. However, we often find inconsistent or hallucinated information in the generated abstractive summaries. Overall, our investigation indicates that the pre-trained abstractive summarization models and LLMs are not yet ready for fully automatic deployment for case judgement summarization; rather a human-in-the-loop approach including manual checks for inconsistencies is more suitable at present. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Transforming ECG Diagnosis:An In-depth Review of Transformer-based  DeepLearning Models in Cardiovascular Disease Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01249  
**Abstract:** The emergence of deep learning has significantly enhanced the analysis of electrocardiograms (ECGs), a non-invasive method that is essential for assessing heart health. Despite the complexity of ECG interpretation, advanced deep learning models outperform traditional methods. However, the increasing complexity of ECG data and the need for real-time and accurate diagnosis necessitate exploring more robust architectures, such as transformers. Here, we present an in-depth review of transformer architectures that are applied to ECG classification. Originally developed for natural language processing, these models capture complex temporal relationships in ECG signals that other models might overlook. We conducted an extensive search of the latest transformer-based models and summarize them to discuss the advances and challenges in their application and suggest potential future improvements. This review serves as a valuable resource for researchers and practitioners and aims to shed light on this innovative application in ECG interpretation. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Collect-and-Distribute Transformer for 3D Point Cloud Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01257  
**Abstract:** Although remarkable advancements have been made recently in point cloud analysis through the exploration of transformer architecture, it remains challenging to effectively learn local and global structures within point clouds. In this paper, we propose a new transformer architecture equipped with a collect-and-distribute mechanism to communicate short- and long-range contexts of point clouds, which we refer to as CDFormer. Specifically, we first utilize self-attention to capture short-range interactions within each local patch, and the updated local features are then collected into a set of proxy reference points from which we can extract long-range contexts. Afterward, we distribute the learned long-range contexts back to local points via cross-attention. To address the position clues for short- and long-range contexts, we also introduce context-aware position encoding to facilitate position-aware communications between points. We perform experiments on four popular point cloud datasets, namely ModelNet40, ScanObjectNN, S3DIS, and ShapeNetPart, for classification and segmentation. Results show the effectiveness of the proposed CDFormer, delivering several new state-of-the-art performances on point cloud classification and segmentation tasks. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/haibo-qiu/CDFormer}. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** LoCoOp: Few-Shot Out-of-Distribution Detection via Prompt Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01293  
**Abstract:** We present a novel vision-language prompt learning approach for few-shot out-of-distribution (OOD) detection. Few-shot OOD detection aims to detect OOD images from classes that are unseen during training using only a few labeled in-distribution (ID) images. While prompt learning methods such as CoOp have shown effectiveness and efficiency in few-shot ID classification, they still face limitations in OOD detection due to the potential presence of ID-irrelevant information in text embeddings. To address this issue, we introduce a new approach called \textbf{Lo}cal regularized \textbf{Co}ntext \textbf{Op}timization (LoCoOp), which performs OOD regularization that utilizes the portions of CLIP local features as OOD features during training. CLIP's local features have a lot of ID-irrelevant nuisances (e.g., backgrounds), and by learning to push them away from the ID class text embeddings, we can remove the nuisances in the ID class text embeddings and enhance the separation between ID and OOD. Experiments on the large-scale ImageNet OOD detection benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our LoCoOp over zero-shot, fully supervised detection methods and prompt learning methods. Notably, even in a one-shot setting -- just one label per class, LoCoOp outperforms existing zero-shot and fully supervised detection methods. The code will be available via \url{https://github.com/AtsuMiyai/LoCoOp}. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Privacy Distillation: Reducing Re-identification Risk of Multimodal  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01322  
**Abstract:** Knowledge distillation in neural networks refers to compressing a large model or dataset into a smaller version of itself. We introduce Privacy Distillation, a framework that allows a text-to-image generative model to teach another model without exposing it to identifiable data. Here, we are interested in the privacy issue faced by a data provider who wishes to share their data via a multimodal generative model. A question that immediately arises is ``How can a data provider ensure that the generative model is not leaking identifiable information about a patient?''. Our solution consists of (1) training a first diffusion model on real data (2) generating a synthetic dataset using this model and filtering it to exclude images with a re-identifiability risk (3) training a second diffusion model on the filtered synthetic data only. We showcase that datasets sampled from models trained with privacy distillation can effectively reduce re-identification risk whilst maintaining downstream performance. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** An Empirical Study on Challenging Math Problem Solving with GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01337  
**Abstract:** Employing Large Language Models (LLMs) to address mathematical problems is an intriguing research endeavor, considering the abundance of math problems expressed in natural language across numerous science and engineering fields. While several prior works have investigated solving elementary mathematics using LLMs, this work explores the frontier of using GPT-4 for solving more complex and challenging math problems. We evaluate various ways of using GPT-4. Some of them are adapted from existing work, and one is \MathChat, a conversational problem-solving framework newly proposed in this work. We perform the evaluation on difficult high school competition problems from the MATH dataset, which shows the advantage of the proposed conversational approach. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Transformer-based Annotation Bias-aware Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01340  
**Abstract:** Manual medical image segmentation is subjective and suffers from annotator-related bias, which can be mimicked or amplified by deep learning methods. Recently, researchers have suggested that such bias is the combination of the annotator preference and stochastic error, which are modeled by convolution blocks located after decoder and pixel-wise independent Gaussian distribution, respectively. It is unlikely that convolution blocks can effectively model the varying degrees of preference at the full resolution level. Additionally, the independent pixel-wise Gaussian distribution disregards pixel correlations, leading to a discontinuous boundary. This paper proposes a Transformer-based Annotation Bias-aware (TAB) medical image segmentation model, which tackles the annotator-related bias via modeling annotator preference and stochastic errors. TAB employs the Transformer with learnable queries to extract the different preference-focused features. This enables TAB to produce segmentation with various preferences simultaneously using a single segmentation head. Moreover, TAB takes the multivariant normal distribution assumption that models pixel correlations, and learns the annotation distribution to disentangle the stochastic error. We evaluated our TAB on an OD/OC segmentation benchmark annotated by six annotators. Our results suggest that TAB outperforms existing medical image segmentation models which take into account the annotator-related bias. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Adjustable Visual Appearance for Generalizable Novel View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01344  
**Abstract:** We present a generalizable novel view synthesis method where it is possible to modify the visual appearance of rendered views to match a target weather or lighting condition. Our method is based on a generalizable transformer architecture, trained on synthetically generated scenes under different appearance conditions. This allows for rendering novel views in a consistent manner of 3D scenes that were not included in the training set, along with the ability to (i) modify their appearance to match the target condition and (ii) smoothly interpolate between different conditions. Experiments on both real and synthetic scenes are provided including both qualitative and quantitative evaluations. Please refer to our project page for video results: https://ava-nvs.github.io/ 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Quantifying Sample Anonymity in Score-Based Generative Models with  Adversarial Fingerprinting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01363  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in score-based generative models have led to a huge spike in the development of downstream applications using generative models ranging from data augmentation over image and video generation to anomaly detection. Despite publicly available trained models, their potential to be used for privacy preserving data sharing has not been fully explored yet. Training diffusion models on private data and disseminating the models and weights rather than the raw dataset paves the way for innovative large-scale data-sharing strategies, particularly in healthcare, where safeguarding patients' personal health information is paramount. However, publishing such models without individual consent of, e.g., the patients from whom the data was acquired, necessitates guarantees that identifiable training samples will never be reproduced, thus protecting personal health data and satisfying the requirements of policymakers and regulatory bodies. This paper introduces a method for estimating the upper bound of the probability of reproducing identifiable training images during the sampling process. This is achieved by designing an adversarial approach that searches for anatomic fingerprints, such as medical devices or dermal art, which could potentially be employed to re-identify training images. Our method harnesses the learned score-based model to estimate the probability of the entire subspace of the score function that may be utilized for one-to-one reproduction of training samples. To validate our estimates, we generate anomalies containing a fingerprint and investigate whether generated samples from trained generative models can be uniquely mapped to the original training samples. Overall our results show that privacy-breaching images are reproduced at sampling time if the models were trained without care. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Towards Robust GAN-generated Image Detection: a Multi-view Completion  Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01364  
**Abstract:** GAN-generated image detection now becomes the first line of defense against the malicious uses of machine-synthesized image manipulations such as deepfakes. Although some existing detectors work well in detecting clean, known GAN samples, their success is largely attributable to overfitting unstable features such as frequency artifacts, which will cause failures when facing unknown GANs or perturbation attacks. To overcome the issue, we propose a robust detection framework based on a novel multi-view image completion representation. The framework first learns various view-to-image tasks to model the diverse distributions of genuine images. Frequency-irrelevant features can be represented from the distributional discrepancies characterized by the completion models, which are stable, generalized, and robust for detecting unknown fake patterns. Then, a multi-view classification is devised with elaborated intra- and inter-view learning strategies to enhance view-specific feature representation and cross-view feature aggregation, respectively. We evaluated the generalization ability of our framework across six popular GANs at different resolutions and its robustness against a broad range of perturbation attacks. The results confirm our method's improved effectiveness, generalization, and robustness over various baselines. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** DSHGT: Dual-Supervisors Heterogeneous Graph Transformer -- A pioneer  study of using heterogeneous graph learning for detecting software  vulnerabilities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01376  
**Abstract:** Vulnerability detection is a critical problem in software security and attracts growing attention both from academia and industry. Traditionally, software security is safeguarded by designated rule-based detectors that heavily rely on empirical expertise, requiring tremendous effort from software experts to generate rule repositories for large code corpus. Recent advances in deep learning, especially Graph Neural Networks (GNN), have uncovered the feasibility of automatic detection of a wide range of software vulnerabilities. However, prior learning-based works only break programs down into a sequence of word tokens for extracting contextual features of codes, or apply GNN largely on homogeneous graph representation (e.g., AST) without discerning complex types of underlying program entities (e.g., methods, variables). In this work, we are one of the first to explore heterogeneous graph representation in the form of Code Property Graph and adapt a well-known heterogeneous graph network with a dual-supervisor structure for the corresponding graph learning task. Using the prototype built, we have conducted extensive experiments on both synthetic datasets and real-world projects. Compared with the state-of-the-art baselines, the results demonstrate promising effectiveness in this research direction in terms of vulnerability detection performance (average F1 improvements over 10\% in real-world projects) and transferability from C/C++ to other programming languages (average F1 improvements over 11%). 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** ChatGPT for Zero-shot Dialogue State Tracking: A Solution or an  Opportunity?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01386  
**Abstract:** Recent research on dialogue state tracking (DST) focuses on methods that allow few- and zero-shot transfer to new domains or schemas. However, performance gains heavily depend on aggressive data augmentation and fine-tuning of ever larger language model based architectures. In contrast, general purpose language models, trained on large amounts of diverse data, hold the promise of solving any kind of task without task-specific training. We present preliminary experimental results on the ChatGPT research preview, showing that ChatGPT achieves state-of-the-art performance in zero-shot DST. Despite our findings, we argue that properties inherent to general purpose models limit their ability to replace specialized systems. We further theorize that the in-context learning capabilities of such models will likely become powerful tools to support the development of dedicated and dynamic dialogue state trackers. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** From Large Language Models to Databases and Back: A discussion on  research and education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01388  
**Abstract:** This discussion was conducted at a recent panel at the 28th International Conference on Database Systems for Advanced Applications (DASFAA 2023), held April 17-20, 2023 in Tianjin, China. The title of the panel was "What does LLM (ChatGPT) Bring to Data Science Research and Education? Pros and Cons". It was moderated by Lei Chen and Xiaochun Yang. The discussion raised several questions on how large language models (LLMs) and database research and education can help each other and the potential risks of LLMs. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Evaluating The Robustness of Self-Supervised Representations to  Background/Foreground Removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01398  
**Abstract:** Despite impressive empirical advances of SSL in solving various tasks, the problem of understanding and characterizing SSL representations learned from input data remains relatively under-explored. We provide a comparative analysis of how the representations produced by SSL models differ when masking parts of the input. Specifically, we considered state-of-the-art SSL pretrained models, such as DINOv2, MAE, and SwaV, and analyzed changes at the representation levels across 4 Image Classification datasets. First, we generate variations of the datasets by applying foreground and background segmentation. Then, we conduct statistical analysis using Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA) and Centered Kernel Alignment (CKA) to evaluate the robustness of the representations learned in SSL models. Empirically, we show that not all models lead to representations that separate foreground, background, and complete images. Furthermore, we test different masking strategies by occluding the center regions of the images to address cases where foreground and background are difficult. For example, the DTD dataset that focuses on texture rather specific objects. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** PolyDiffuse: Polygonal Shape Reconstruction via Guided Set Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01461  
**Abstract:** This paper presents PolyDiffuse, a novel structured reconstruction algorithm that transforms visual sensor data into polygonal shapes with Diffusion Models (DM), an emerging machinery amid exploding generative AI, while formulating reconstruction as a generation process conditioned on sensor data. The task of structured reconstruction poses two fundamental challenges to DM: 1) A structured geometry is a ``set'' (e.g., a set of polygons for a floorplan geometry), where a sample of $N$ elements has $N!$ different but equivalent representations, making the denoising highly ambiguous; and 2) A ``reconstruction'' task has a single solution, where an initial noise needs to be chosen carefully, while any initial noise works for a generation task. Our technical contribution is the introduction of a Guided Set Diffusion Model where 1) the forward diffusion process learns guidance networks to control noise injection so that one representation of a sample remains distinct from its other permutation variants, thus resolving denoising ambiguity; and 2) the reverse denoising process reconstructs polygonal shapes, initialized and directed by the guidance networks, as a conditional generation process subject to the sensor data. We have evaluated our approach for reconstructing two types of polygonal shapes: floorplan as a set of polygons and HD map for autonomous cars as a set of polylines. Through extensive experiments on standard benchmarks, we demonstrate that PolyDiffuse significantly advances the current state of the art and enables broader practical applications. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Generalist Equivariant Transformer Towards 3D Molecular Interaction  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01474  
**Abstract:** Many processes in biology and drug discovery involve various 3D interactions between different molecules, such as protein and protein, protein and small molecule, etc. Designing a generalist model to learn universal molecular interactions is valuable yet challenging, given that different molecules are usually represented in different granularity. In this paper, we first propose to universally represent a 3D molecule as a geometric graph of sets, in contrast to conventional single-level representations. Upon the proposed unified representation, we then propose a Generalist Equivariant Transformer (GET) to effectively capture both sparse block-level and dense atom-level interactions. To be specific, GET consists of a bilevel attention module, a feed-forward module and a layer normalization module, where, notably, each module is E(3) equivariant to meet the symmetry of 3D world. Extensive experiments on the prediction of protein-protein affinity, ligand binding affinity, and ligand efficacy prediction verify the effectiveness of our proposed method against existing methods, and reveal its potential to learn transferable knowledge across different domains and different tasks. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Learning Local to Global Feature Aggregation for Speech Emotion  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01491  
**Abstract:** Transformer has emerged in speech emotion recognition (SER) at present. However, its equal patch division not only damages frequency information but also ignores local emotion correlations across frames, which are key cues to represent emotion. To handle the issue, we propose a Local to Global Feature Aggregation learning (LGFA) for SER, which can aggregate longterm emotion correlations at different scales both inside frames and segments with entire frequency information to enhance the emotion discrimination of utterance-level speech features. For this purpose, we nest a Frame Transformer inside a Segment Transformer. Firstly, Frame Transformer is designed to excavate local emotion correlations between frames for frame embeddings. Then, the frame embeddings and their corresponding segment features are aggregated as different-level complements to be fed into Segment Transformer for learning utterance-level global emotion features. Experimental results show that the performance of LGFA is superior to the state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Data-Efficient French Language Modeling with CamemBERTa  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01497  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in NLP have significantly improved the performance of language models on a variety of tasks. While these advances are largely driven by the availability of large amounts of data and computational power, they also benefit from the development of better training methods and architectures. In this paper, we introduce CamemBERTa, a French DeBERTa model that builds upon the DeBERTaV3 architecture and training objective. We evaluate our model's performance on a variety of French downstream tasks and datasets, including question answering, part-of-speech tagging, dependency parsing, named entity recognition, and the FLUE benchmark, and compare against CamemBERT, the state-of-the-art monolingual model for French. Our results show that, given the same amount of training tokens, our model outperforms BERT-based models trained with MLM on most tasks. Furthermore, our new model reaches similar or superior performance on downstream tasks compared to CamemBERT, despite being trained on only 30% of its total number of input tokens. In addition to our experimental results, we also publicly release the weights and code implementation of CamemBERTa, making it the first publicly available DeBERTaV3 model outside of the original paper and the first openly available implementation of a DeBERTaV3 training objective. https://gitlab.inria.fr/almanach/CamemBERTa 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Can LLMs like GPT-4 outperform traditional AI tools in dementia  diagnosis? Maybe, but not today  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01499  
**Abstract:** Recent investigations show that large language models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4, not only have remarkable capabilities in common Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks but also exhibit human-level performance on various professional and academic benchmarks. However, whether GPT-4 can be directly used in practical applications and replace traditional artificial intelligence (AI) tools in specialized domains requires further experimental validation. In this paper, we explore the potential of LLMs such as GPT-4 to outperform traditional AI tools in dementia diagnosis. Comprehensive comparisons between GPT-4 and traditional AI tools are conducted to examine their diagnostic accuracy in a clinical setting. Experimental results on two real clinical datasets show that, although LLMs like GPT-4 demonstrate potential for future advancements in dementia diagnosis, they currently do not surpass the performance of traditional AI tools. The interpretability and faithfulness of GPT-4 are also evaluated by comparison with real doctors. We discuss the limitations of GPT-4 in its current state and propose future research directions to enhance GPT-4 in dementia diagnosis. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Transformer-based Multi-Modal Learning for Multi Label Remote Sensing  Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01523  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce a novel Synchronized Class Token Fusion (SCT Fusion) architecture in the framework of multi-modal multi-label classification (MLC) of remote sensing (RS) images. The proposed architecture leverages modality-specific attention-based transformer encoders to process varying input modalities, while exchanging information across modalities by synchronizing the special class tokens after each transformer encoder block. The synchronization involves fusing the class tokens with a trainable fusion transformation, resulting in a synchronized class token that contains information from all modalities. As the fusion transformation is trainable, it allows to reach an accurate representation of the shared features among different modalities. Experimental results show the effectiveness of the proposed architecture over single-modality architectures and an early fusion multi-modal architecture when evaluated on a multi-modal MLC dataset. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** PassGPT: Password Modeling and (Guided) Generation with Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01545  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) successfully model natural language from vast amounts of text without the need for explicit supervision. In this paper, we investigate the efficacy of LLMs in modeling passwords. We present PassGPT, a LLM trained on password leaks for password generation. PassGPT outperforms existing methods based on generative adversarial networks (GAN) by guessing twice as many previously unseen passwords. Furthermore, we introduce the concept of guided password generation, where we leverage PassGPT sampling procedure to generate passwords matching arbitrary constraints, a feat lacking in current GAN-based strategies. Lastly, we conduct an in-depth analysis of the entropy and probability distribution that PassGPT defines over passwords and discuss their use in enhancing existing password strength estimators. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Influence Maximization with Fairness at Scale (Extended Version)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01587  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we revisit the problem of influence maximization with fairness, which aims to select k influential nodes to maximise the spread of information in a network, while ensuring that selected sensitive user attributes are fairly affected, i.e., are proportionally similar between the original network and the affected users. Recent studies on this problem focused only on extremely small networks, hence the challenge remains on how to achieve a scalable solution, applicable to networks with millions or billions of nodes. We propose an approach that is based on learning node representations for fair spread from diffusion cascades, instead of the social connectivity s.t. we can deal with very large graphs. We propose two data-driven approaches: (a) fairness-based participant sampling (FPS), and (b) fairness as context (FAC). Spread related user features, such as the probability of diffusing information to others, are derived from the historical information cascades, using a deep neural network. The extracted features are then used in selecting influencers that maximize the influence spread, while being also fair with respect to the chosen sensitive attributes. In FPS, fairness and cascade length information are considered independently in the decision-making process, while FAC considers these information facets jointly and considers correlations between them. The proposed algorithms are generic and represent the first policy-driven solutions that can be applied to arbitrary sets of sensitive attributes at scale. We evaluate the performance of our solutions on a real-world public dataset (Sina Weibo) and on a hybrid real-synthethic dataset (Digg), which exhibit all the facets that we exploit, namely diffusion network, diffusion traces, and user profiles. These experiments show that our methods outperform the state-the-art solutions in terms of spread, fairness, and scalability. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** An Evaluation of Log Parsing with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01590  
**Abstract:** Software logs play an essential role in ensuring the reliability and maintainability of large-scale software systems, as they are often the sole source of runtime information. Log parsing, which converts raw log messages into structured data, is an important initial step towards downstream log analytics. In recent studies, ChatGPT, the current cutting-edge large language model (LLM), has been widely applied to a wide range of software engineering tasks. However, its performance in automated log parsing remains unclear. In this paper, we evaluate ChatGPT's ability to undertake log parsing by addressing two research questions. (1) Can ChatGPT effectively parse logs? (2) How does ChatGPT perform with different prompting methods? Our results show that ChatGPT can achieve promising results for log parsing with appropriate prompts, especially with few-shot prompting. Based on our findings, we outline several challenges and opportunities for ChatGPT-based log parsing. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** A Novel Vision Transformer with Residual in Self-attention for  Biomedical Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01594  
**Abstract:** Biomedical image classification requires capturing of bio-informatics based on specific feature distribution. In most of such applications, there are mainly challenges due to limited availability of samples for diseased cases and imbalanced nature of dataset. This article presents the novel framework of multi-head self-attention for vision transformer (ViT) which makes capable of capturing the specific image features for classification and analysis. The proposed method uses the concept of residual connection for accumulating the best attention output in each block of multi-head attention. The proposed framework has been evaluated on two small datasets: (i) blood cell classification dataset and (ii) brain tumor detection using brain MRI images. The results show the significant improvement over traditional ViT and other convolution based state-of-the-art classification models. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** GANs Settle Scores!  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01654  
**Abstract:** Generative adversarial networks (GANs) comprise a generator, trained to learn the underlying distribution of the desired data, and a discriminator, trained to distinguish real samples from those output by the generator. A majority of GAN literature focuses on understanding the optimality of the discriminator through integral probability metric (IPM) or divergence based analysis. In this paper, we propose a unified approach to analyzing the generator optimization through variational approach. In $f$-divergence-minimizing GANs, we show that the optimal generator is the one that matches the score of its output distribution with that of the data distribution, while in IPM GANs, we show that this optimal generator matches score-like functions, involving the flow-field of the kernel associated with a chosen IPM constraint space. Further, the IPM-GAN optimization can be seen as one of smoothed score-matching, where the scores of the data and the generator distributions are convolved with the kernel associated with the constraint. The proposed approach serves to unify score-based training and existing GAN flavors, leveraging results from normalizing flows, while also providing explanations for empirical phenomena such as the stability of non-saturating GAN losses. Based on these results, we propose novel alternatives to $f$-GAN and IPM-GAN training based on score and flow matching, and discriminator-guided Langevin sampling. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Backchannel Detection and Agreement Estimation from Video with  Transformer Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01656  
**Abstract:** Listeners use short interjections, so-called backchannels, to signify attention or express agreement. The automatic analysis of this behavior is of key importance for human conversation analysis and interactive conversational agents. Current state-of-the-art approaches for backchannel analysis from visual behavior make use of two types of features: features based on body pose and features based on facial behavior. At the same time, transformer neural networks have been established as an effective means to fuse input from different data sources, but they have not yet been applied to backchannel analysis. In this work, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of multi-modal transformer architectures for automatic backchannel analysis based on pose and facial information. We address both the detection of backchannels as well as the task of estimating the agreement expressed in a backchannel. In evaluations on the MultiMediate'22 backchannel detection challenge, we reach 66.4% accuracy with a one-layer transformer architecture, outperforming the previous state of the art. With a two-layer transformer architecture, we furthermore set a new state of the art (0.0604 MSE) on the task of estimating the amount of agreement expressed in a backchannel. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** DiffusEmp: A Diffusion Model-Based Framework with Multi-Grained Control  for Empathetic Response Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01657  
**Abstract:** Empathy is a crucial factor in open-domain conversations, which naturally shows one's caring and understanding to others. Though several methods have been proposed to generate empathetic responses, existing works often lead to monotonous empathy that refers to generic and safe expressions. In this paper, we propose to use explicit control to guide the empathy expression and design a framework DiffusEmp based on conditional diffusion language model to unify the utilization of dialogue context and attribute-oriented control signals. Specifically, communication mechanism, intent, and semantic frame are imported as multi-grained signals that control the empathy realization from coarse to fine levels. We then design a specific masking strategy to reflect the relationship between multi-grained signals and response tokens, and integrate it into the diffusion model to influence the generative process. Experimental results on a benchmark dataset EmpatheticDialogue show that our framework outperforms competitive baselines in terms of controllability, informativeness, and diversity without the loss of context-relatedness. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Enhancing CLIP with CLIP: Exploring Pseudolabeling for Limited-Label  Prompt Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01669  
**Abstract:** Fine-tuning vision-language models (VLMs) like CLIP to downstream tasks is often necessary to optimize their performance. However, a major obstacle is the limited availability of labeled data. We study the use of pseudolabels, i.e., heuristic labels for unlabeled data, to enhance CLIP via prompt tuning. Conventional pseudolabeling trains a model on labeled data and then generates labels for unlabeled data. VLMs' zero-shot capabilities enable a ``second generation'' of pseudolabeling approaches that do not require task-specific training on labeled data. By using zero-shot pseudolabels as a source of supervision, we observe that learning paradigms such as semi-supervised, transductive zero-shot, and unsupervised learning can all be seen as optimizing the same loss function. This unified view enables the development of versatile training strategies that are applicable across learning paradigms. We investigate them on image classification tasks where CLIP exhibits limitations, by varying prompt modalities, e.g., textual or visual prompts, and learning paradigms. We find that (1) unexplored prompt tuning strategies that iteratively refine pseudolabels consistently improve CLIP accuracy, by 19.5 points in semi-supervised learning, by 28.4 points in transductive zero-shot learning, and by 15.2 points in unsupervised learning, and (2) unlike conventional semi-supervised pseudolabeling, which exacerbates model biases toward classes with higher-quality pseudolabels, prompt tuning leads to a more equitable distribution of per-class accuracy. The code to reproduce the experiments is at github.com/BatsResearch/menghini-enhanceCLIPwithCLIP-code. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** MKOR: Momentum-Enabled Kronecker-Factor-Based Optimizer Using Rank-1  Updates  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01685  
**Abstract:** This work proposes a Momentum-Enabled Kronecker-Factor-Based Optimizer Using Rank-1 updates, called MKOR, that improves the training time and convergence properties of deep neural networks (DNNs). Second-order techniques, while enjoying higher convergence rates vs first-order counterparts, have cubic complexity with respect to either the model size and/or the training batch size. Hence they exhibit poor scalability and performance in transformer models, e.g. large language models (LLMs), because the batch sizes in these models scale by the attention mechanism sequence length, leading to large model size and batch sizes. MKOR's complexity is quadratic with respect to the model size, alleviating the computation bottlenecks in second-order methods. Because of their high computation complexity, state-of-the-art implementations of second-order methods can only afford to update the second order information infrequently, and thus do not fully exploit the promise of better convergence from these updates. By reducing the communication complexity of the second-order updates as well as achieving a linear communication complexity, MKOR increases the frequency of second order updates. We also propose a hybrid version of MKOR (called MKOR-H) that mid-training falls backs to a first order optimizer if the second order updates no longer accelerate convergence. Our experiments show that MKOR outperforms state -of-the-art first order methods, e.g. the LAMB optimizer, and best implementations of second-order methods, i.e. KAISA/KFAC, up to 2.57x and 1.85x respectively on BERT-Large-Uncased on 64 GPUs. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** GateON: an unsupervised method for large scale continual learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01690  
**Abstract:** The objective of continual learning (CL) is to learn tasks sequentially without retraining on earlier tasks. However, when subjected to CL, traditional neural networks exhibit catastrophic forgetting and limited generalization. To overcome these problems, we introduce a novel method called 'Gate and Obstruct Network' (GateON). GateON combines learnable gating of activity and online estimation of parameter relevance to safeguard crucial knowledge from being overwritten. Our method generates partially overlapping pathways between tasks which permits forward and backward transfer during sequential learning. GateON addresses the issue of network saturation after parameter fixation by a re-activation mechanism of fixed neurons, enabling large-scale continual learning. GateON is implemented on a wide range of networks (fully-connected, CNN, Transformers), has low computational complexity, effectively learns up to 100 MNIST learning tasks, and achieves top-tier results for pre-trained BERT in CL-based NLP tasks. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Evaluating Language Models for Mathematics through Interactions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01694  
**Abstract:** The standard methodology of evaluating large language models (LLMs) based on static pairs of inputs and outputs is insufficient for developing assistants: this kind of assessments fails to take into account the essential interactive element in their deployment, and therefore limits how we understand language model capabilities. We introduce CheckMate, an adaptable prototype platform for humans to interact with and evaluate LLMs. We conduct a study with CheckMate to evaluate three language models~(InstructGPT, ChatGPT, and GPT-4) as assistants in proving undergraduate-level mathematics, with a mixed cohort of participants from undergraduate students to professors of mathematics. We release the resulting interaction and rating dataset, MathConverse. By analysing MathConverse, we derive a preliminary taxonomy of human behaviours and uncover that despite a generally positive correlation, there are notable instances of divergence between correctness and perceived helpfulness in LLM generations, amongst other findings. Further, we identify useful scenarios and existing issues of GPT-4 in mathematical reasoning through a series of case studies contributed by expert mathematicians. We conclude with actionable takeaways for ML practitioners and mathematicians: models which communicate uncertainty, respond well to user corrections, are more interpretable and concise may constitute better assistants; interactive evaluation is a promising way to continually navigate the capability of these models; humans should be aware of language models' algebraic fallibility, and for that reason discern where they should be used. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** The Information Pathways Hypothesis: Transformers are Dynamic  Self-Ensembles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01705  
**Abstract:** Transformers use the dense self-attention mechanism which gives a lot of flexibility for long-range connectivity. Over multiple layers of a deep transformer, the number of possible connectivity patterns increases exponentially. However, very few of these contribute to the performance of the network, and even fewer are essential. We hypothesize that there are sparsely connected sub-networks within a transformer, called information pathways which can be trained independently. However, the dynamic (i.e., input-dependent) nature of these pathways makes it difficult to prune dense self-attention during training. But the overall distribution of these pathways is often predictable. We take advantage of this fact to propose Stochastically Subsampled self-Attention (SSA) - a general-purpose training strategy for transformers that can reduce both the memory and computational cost of self-attention by 4 to 8 times during training while also serving as a regularization method - improving generalization over dense training. We show that an ensemble of sub-models can be formed from the subsampled pathways within a network, which can achieve better performance than its densely attended counterpart. We perform experiments on a variety of NLP, computer vision and graph learning tasks in both generative and discriminative settings to provide empirical evidence for our claims and show the effectiveness of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Denoising Diffusion Semantic Segmentation with Mask Prior Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01721  
**Abstract:** The evolution of semantic segmentation has long been dominated by learning more discriminative image representations for classifying each pixel. Despite the prominent advancements, the priors of segmentation masks themselves, e.g., geometric and semantic constraints, are still under-explored. In this paper, we propose to ameliorate the semantic segmentation quality of existing discriminative approaches with a mask prior modeled by a recently-developed denoising diffusion generative model. Beginning with a unified architecture that adapts diffusion models for mask prior modeling, we focus this work on a specific instantiation with discrete diffusion and identify a variety of key design choices for its successful application. Our exploratory analysis revealed several important findings, including: (1) a simple integration of diffusion models into semantic segmentation is not sufficient, and a poorly-designed diffusion process might lead to degradation in segmentation performance; (2) during the training, the object to which noise is added is more important than the type of noise; (3) during the inference, the strict diffusion denoising scheme may not be essential and can be relaxed to a simpler scheme that even works better. We evaluate the proposed prior modeling with several off-the-shelf segmentors, and our experimental results on ADE20K and Cityscapes demonstrate that our approach could achieve competitively quantitative performance and more appealing visual quality. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Video Colorization with Pre-trained Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01732  
**Abstract:** Video colorization is a challenging task that involves inferring plausible and temporally consistent colors for grayscale frames. In this paper, we present ColorDiffuser, an adaptation of a pre-trained text-to-image latent diffusion model for video colorization. With the proposed adapter-based approach, we repropose the pre-trained text-to-image model to accept input grayscale video frames, with the optional text description, for video colorization. To enhance the temporal coherence and maintain the vividness of colorization across frames, we propose two novel techniques: the Color Propagation Attention and Alternated Sampling Strategy. Color Propagation Attention enables the model to refine its colorization decision based on a reference latent frame, while Alternated Sampling Strategy captures spatiotemporal dependencies by using the next and previous adjacent latent frames alternatively as reference during the generative diffusion sampling steps. This encourages bidirectional color information propagation between adjacent video frames, leading to improved color consistency across frames. We conduct extensive experiments on benchmark datasets, and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed framework. The evaluations show that ColorDiffuser achieves state-of-the-art performance in video colorization, surpassing existing methods in terms of color fidelity, temporal consistency, and visual quality. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** DocFormerv2: Local Features for Document Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01733  
**Abstract:** We propose DocFormerv2, a multi-modal transformer for Visual Document Understanding (VDU). The VDU domain entails understanding documents (beyond mere OCR predictions) e.g., extracting information from a form, VQA for documents and other tasks. VDU is challenging as it needs a model to make sense of multiple modalities (visual, language and spatial) to make a prediction. Our approach, termed DocFormerv2 is an encoder-decoder transformer which takes as input - vision, language and spatial features. DocFormerv2 is pre-trained with unsupervised tasks employed asymmetrically i.e., two novel document tasks on encoder and one on the auto-regressive decoder. The unsupervised tasks have been carefully designed to ensure that the pre-training encourages local-feature alignment between multiple modalities. DocFormerv2 when evaluated on nine datasets shows state-of-the-art performance over strong baselines e.g. TabFact (4.3%), InfoVQA (1.4%), FUNSD (1%). Furthermore, to show generalization capabilities, on three VQA tasks involving scene-text, Doc- Formerv2 outperforms previous comparably-sized models and even does better than much larger models (such as GIT2, PaLi and Flamingo) on some tasks. Extensive ablations show that due to its pre-training, DocFormerv2 understands multiple modalities better than prior-art in VDU. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** OCBEV: Object-Centric BEV Transformer for Multi-View 3D Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01738  
**Abstract:** Multi-view 3D object detection is becoming popular in autonomous driving due to its high effectiveness and low cost. Most of the current state-of-the-art detectors follow the query-based bird's-eye-view (BEV) paradigm, which benefits from both BEV's strong perception power and end-to-end pipeline. Despite achieving substantial progress, existing works model objects via globally leveraging temporal and spatial information of BEV features, resulting in problems when handling the challenging complex and dynamic autonomous driving scenarios. In this paper, we proposed an Object-Centric query-BEV detector OCBEV, which can carve the temporal and spatial cues of moving targets more effectively. OCBEV comprises three designs: Object Aligned Temporal Fusion aligns the BEV feature based on ego-motion and estimated current locations of moving objects, leading to a precise instance-level feature fusion. Object Focused Multi-View Sampling samples more 3D features from an adaptive local height ranges of objects for each scene to enrich foreground information. Object Informed Query Enhancement replaces part of pre-defined decoder queries in common DETR-style decoders with positional features of objects on high-confidence locations, introducing more direct object positional priors. Extensive experimental evaluations are conducted on the challenging nuScenes dataset. Our approach achieves a state-of-the-art result, surpassing the traditional BEVFormer by 1.5 NDS points. Moreover, we have a faster convergence speed and only need half of the training iterations to get comparable performance, which further demonstrates its effectiveness. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** NNMobile-Net: Rethinking CNN Design for Deep Learning-Based Retinopathy  Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01289  
**Abstract:** Retinal diseases (RD) are the leading cause of severe vision loss or blindness. Deep learning-based automated tools play an indispensable role in assisting clinicians in diagnosing and monitoring RD in modern medicine. Recently, an increasing number of works in this field have taken advantage of Vision Transformer to achieve state-of-the-art performance with more parameters and higher model complexity compared to Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). Such sophisticated and task-specific model designs, however, are prone to be overfitting and hinder their generalizability. In this work, we argue that a channel-aware and well-calibrated CNN model may overcome these problems. To this end, we empirically studied CNN's macro and micro designs and its training strategies. Based on the investigation, we proposed a no-new-MobleNet (nn-MobileNet) developed for retinal diseases. In our experiments, our generic, simple and efficient model superseded most current state-of-the-art methods on four public datasets for multiple tasks, including diabetic retinopathy grading, fundus multi-disease detection, and diabetic macular edema classification. Our work may provide novel insights into deep learning architecture design and advance retinopathy research. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Improved Training for End-to-End Streaming Automatic Speech Recognition  Model with Punctuation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01296  
**Abstract:** Punctuated text prediction is crucial for automatic speech recognition as it enhances readability and impacts downstream natural language processing tasks. In streaming scenarios, the ability to predict punctuation in real-time is particularly desirable but presents a difficult technical challenge. In this work, we propose a method for predicting punctuated text from input speech using a chunk-based Transformer encoder trained with Connectionist Temporal Classification (CTC) loss. The acoustic model trained with long sequences by concatenating the input and target sequences can learn punctuation marks attached to the end of sentences more effectively. Additionally, by combining CTC losses on the chunks and utterances, we achieved both the improved F1 score of punctuation prediction and Word Error Rate (WER). 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Audio-Visual Speech Enhancement with Score-Based Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01432  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces an audio-visual speech enhancement system that leverages score-based generative models, also known as diffusion models, conditioned on visual information. In particular, we exploit audio-visual embeddings obtained from a self-super\-vised learning model that has been fine-tuned on lipreading. The layer-wise features of its transformer-based encoder are aggregated, time-aligned, and incorporated into the noise conditional score network. Experimental evaluations show that the proposed audio-visual speech enhancement system yields improved speech quality and reduces generative artifacts such as phonetic confusions with respect to the audio-only equivalent. The latter is supported by the word error rate of a downstream automatic speech recognition model, which decreases noticeably, especially at low input signal-to-noise ratios. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Zero-Shot Blind Audio Bandwidth Extension  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01433  
**Abstract:** Audio bandwidth extension involves the realistic reconstruction of high-frequency spectra from bandlimited observations. In cases where the lowpass degradation is unknown, such as in restoring historical audio recordings, this becomes a blind problem. This paper introduces a novel method called BABE (Blind Audio Bandwidth Extension) that addresses the blind problem in a zero-shot setting, leveraging the generative priors of a pre-trained unconditional diffusion model. During the inference process, BABE utilizes a generalized version of diffusion posterior sampling, where the degradation operator is unknown but parametrized and inferred iteratively. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated using objective and subjective metrics, and the results show that BABE surpasses state-of-the-art blind bandwidth extension baselines and achieves competitive performance compared to non-blind filter-informed methods when tested with synthetic data. Moreover, BABE exhibits robust generalization capabilities when enhancing real historical recordings, effectively reconstructing the missing high-frequency content while maintaining coherence with the original recording. Subjective preference tests confirm that BABE significantly improves the audio quality of historical music recordings. Examples of historical recordings restored with the proposed method are available on the companion webpage: (

