**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Comparative study on Judgment Text Classification for Transformer Based  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01739  
**Abstract:** This work involves the usage of various NLP models to predict the winner of a particular judgment by the means of text extraction and summarization from a judgment document. These documents are useful when it comes to legal proceedings. One such advantage is that these can be used for citations and precedence reference in Lawsuits and cases which makes a strong argument for their case by the ones using it. When it comes to precedence, it is necessary to refer to an ample number of documents in order to collect legal points with respect to the case. However, reviewing these documents takes a long time to analyze due to the complex word structure and the size of the document. This work involves the comparative study of 6 different self-attention-based transformer models and how they perform when they are being tweaked in 4 different activation functions. These models which are trained with 200 judgement contexts and their results are being judged based on different benchmark parameters. These models finally have a confidence level up to 99% while predicting the judgment. This can be used to get a particular judgment document without spending too much time searching relevant cases and reading them completely. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** GPT Models Meet Robotic Applications: Co-Speech Gesturing Chat System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01741  
**Abstract:** This technical paper introduces a chatting robot system that utilizes recent advancements in large-scale language models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 and ChatGPT. The system is integrated with a co-speech gesture generation system, which selects appropriate gestures based on the conceptual meaning of speech. Our motivation is to explore ways of utilizing the recent progress in LLMs for practical robotic applications, which benefits the development of both chatbots and LLMs. Specifically, it enables the development of highly responsive chatbot systems by leveraging LLMs and adds visual effects to the user interface of LLMs as an additional value. The source code for the system is available on GitHub for our in-house robot (https://github.com/microsoft/LabanotationSuite/tree/master/MSRAbotChatSimulation) and GitHub for Toyota HSR (https://github.com/microsoft/GPT-Enabled-HSR-CoSpeechGestures). 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Transformer-based Vulnerability Detection in Code at EditTime:  Zero-shot, Few-shot, or Fine-tuning?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01754  
**Abstract:** Software vulnerabilities bear enterprises significant costs. Despite extensive efforts in research and development of software vulnerability detection methods, uncaught vulnerabilities continue to put software owners and users at risk. Many current vulnerability detection methods require that code snippets can compile and build before attempting detection. This, unfortunately, introduces a long latency between the time a vulnerability is injected to the time it is removed, which can substantially increases the cost of fixing a vulnerability. We recognize that the current advances in machine learning can be used to detect vulnerable code patterns on syntactically incomplete code snippets as the developer is writing the code at EditTime. In this paper we present a practical system that leverages deep learning on a large-scale data set of vulnerable code patterns to learn complex manifestations of more than 250 vulnerability types and detect vulnerable code patterns at EditTime. We discuss zero-shot, few-shot, and fine-tuning approaches on state of the art pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs). We show that in comparison with state of the art vulnerability detection models our approach improves the state of the art by 10%. We also evaluate our approach to detect vulnerability in auto-generated code by code LLMs. Evaluation on a benchmark of high-risk code scenarios shows a reduction of up to 90% vulnerability reduction. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Distinguishing Human Generated Text From ChatGPT Generated Text Using  Machine Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01761  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a conversational artificial intelligence that is a member of the generative pre-trained transformer of the large language model family. This text generative model was fine-tuned by both supervised learning and reinforcement learning so that it can produce text documents that seem to be written by natural intelligence. Although there are numerous advantages of this generative model, it comes with some reasonable concerns as well. This paper presents a machine learning-based solution that can identify the ChatGPT delivered text from the human written text along with the comparative analysis of a total of 11 machine learning and deep learning algorithms in the classification process. We have tested the proposed model on a Kaggle dataset consisting of 10,000 texts out of which 5,204 texts were written by humans and collected from news and social media. On the corpus generated by GPT-3.5, the proposed algorithm presents an accuracy of 77%. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Pre-trained transformer for adversarial purification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01762  
**Abstract:** With more and more deep neural networks being deployed as various daily services, their reliability is essential. It's frightening that deep neural networks are vulnerable and sensitive to adversarial attacks, the most common one of which for the services is evasion-based. Recent works usually strengthen the robustness by adversarial training or leveraging the knowledge of an amount of clean data. However, in practical terms, retraining and redeploying the model need a large computational budget, leading to heavy losses to the online service. In addition, when adversarial examples of a certain attack are detected, only limited adversarial examples are available for the service provider, while much clean data may not be accessible. Given the mentioned problems, we propose a new scenario, RaPiD (Rapid Plug-in Defender), which is to rapidly defend against a certain attack for the frozen original service model with limitations of few clean and adversarial examples. Motivated by the generalization and the universal computation ability of pre-trained transformer models, we come up with a new defender method, CeTaD, which stands for Considering Pre-trained Transformers as Defenders. In particular, we evaluate the effectiveness and the transferability of CeTaD in the case of one-shot adversarial examples and explore the impact of different parts of CeTaD as well as training data conditions. CeTaD is flexible, able to be embedded into an arbitrary differentiable model, and suitable for various types of attacks. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** A Quantitative Review on Language Model Efficiency Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01768  
**Abstract:** Language models (LMs) are being scaled and becoming powerful. Improving their efficiency is one of the core research topics in neural information processing systems. Tay et al. (2022) provided a comprehensive overview of efficient Transformers that have become an indispensable staple in the field of NLP. However, in the section of "On Evaluation", they left an open question "which fundamental efficient Transformer one should consider," answered by "still a mystery" because "many research papers select their own benchmarks." Unfortunately, there was not quantitative analysis about the performances of Transformers on any benchmarks. Moreover, state space models (SSMs) have demonstrated their abilities of modeling long-range sequences with non-attention mechanisms, which were not discussed in the prior review. This article makes a meta analysis on the results from a set of papers on efficient Transformers as well as those on SSMs. It provides a quantitative review on LM efficiency research and gives suggestions for future research. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** ProcessGPT: Transforming Business Process Management with Generative  Artificial Intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01771  
**Abstract:** Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) is a state-of-the-art machine learning model capable of generating human-like text through natural language processing (NLP). GPT is trained on massive amounts of text data and uses deep learning techniques to learn patterns and relationships within the data, enabling it to generate coherent and contextually appropriate text. This position paper proposes using GPT technology to generate new process models when/if needed. We introduce ProcessGPT as a new technology that has the potential to enhance decision-making in data-centric and knowledge-intensive processes. ProcessGPT can be designed by training a generative pre-trained transformer model on a large dataset of business process data. This model can then be fine-tuned on specific process domains and trained to generate process flows and make decisions based on context and user input. The model can be integrated with NLP and machine learning techniques to provide insights and recommendations for process improvement. Furthermore, the model can automate repetitive tasks and improve process efficiency while enabling knowledge workers to communicate analysis findings, supporting evidence, and make decisions. ProcessGPT can revolutionize business process management (BPM) by offering a powerful tool for process augmentation, automation and improvement. Finally, we demonstrate how ProcessGPT can be a powerful tool for augmenting data engineers in maintaining data ecosystem processes within large bank organizations. Our scenario highlights the potential of this approach to improve efficiency, reduce costs, and enhance the quality of business operations through the automation of data-centric and knowledge-intensive processes. These results underscore the promise of ProcessGPT as a transformative technology for organizations looking to improve their process workflows. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Evaluating GPT's Programming Capability through CodeWars' Katas  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01784  
**Abstract:** In the burgeoning field of artificial intelligence (AI), understanding the capabilities and limitations of programming-oriented models is crucial. This paper presents a novel evaluation of the programming proficiency of Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT) models, specifically GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, against coding problems of varying difficulty levels drawn from Codewars. The experiments reveal a distinct boundary at the 3kyu level, beyond which these GPT models struggle to provide solutions. These findings led to the proposal of a measure for coding problem complexity that incorporates both problem difficulty and the time required for solution. The research emphasizes the need for validation and creative thinking capabilities in AI models to better emulate human problem-solving techniques. Future work aims to refine this proposed complexity measure, enhance AI models with these suggested capabilities, and develop an objective measure for programming problem difficulty. The results of this research offer invaluable insights for improving AI programming capabilities and advancing the frontier of AI problem-solving abilities. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Extracting Reward Functions from Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01804  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have achieved remarkable results in image generation, and have similarly been used to learn high-performing policies in sequential decision-making tasks. Decision-making diffusion models can be trained on lower-quality data, and then be steered with a reward function to generate near-optimal trajectories. We consider the problem of extracting a reward function by comparing a decision-making diffusion model that models low-reward behavior and one that models high-reward behavior; a setting related to inverse reinforcement learning. We first define the notion of a relative reward function of two diffusion models and show conditions under which it exists and is unique. We then devise a practical learning algorithm for extracting it by aligning the gradients of a reward function -- parametrized by a neural network -- to the difference in outputs of both diffusion models. Our method finds correct reward functions in navigation environments, and we demonstrate that steering the base model with the learned reward functions results in significantly increased performance in standard locomotion benchmarks. Finally, we demonstrate that our approach generalizes beyond sequential decision-making by learning a reward-like function from two large-scale image generation diffusion models. The extracted reward function successfully assigns lower rewards to harmful images. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Word Embeddings for Banking Industry  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01807  
**Abstract:** Applications of Natural Language Processing (NLP) are plentiful, from sentiment analysis to text classification. Practitioners rely on static word embeddings (e.g. Word2Vec or GloVe) or static word representation from contextual models (e.g. BERT or ELMo) to perform many of these NLP tasks. These widely available word embeddings are built from large amount of text, so they are likely to have captured most of the vocabulary in different context. However, how well would they capture domain-specific semantics and word relatedness? This paper explores this idea by creating a bank-specific word embeddings and evaluates them against other sources of word embeddings such as GloVe and BERT. Not surprising that embeddings built from bank-specific corpora does a better job of capturing the bank-specific semantics and word relatedness. This finding suggests that bank-specific word embeddings could be a good stand-alone source or a complement to other widely available embeddings when performing NLP tasks specific to the banking industry. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Concurrent Classifier Error Detection (CCED) in Large Scale Machine  Learning Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01820  
**Abstract:** The complexity of Machine Learning (ML) systems increases each year, with current implementations of large language models or text-to-image generators having billions of parameters and requiring billions of arithmetic operations. As these systems are widely utilized, ensuring their reliable operation is becoming a design requirement. Traditional error detection mechanisms introduce circuit or time redundancy that significantly impacts system performance. An alternative is the use of Concurrent Error Detection (CED) schemes that operate in parallel with the system and exploit their properties to detect errors. CED is attractive for large ML systems because it can potentially reduce the cost of error detection. In this paper, we introduce Concurrent Classifier Error Detection (CCED), a scheme to implement CED in ML systems using a concurrent ML classifier to detect errors. CCED identifies a set of check signals in the main ML system and feeds them to the concurrent ML classifier that is trained to detect errors. The proposed CCED scheme has been implemented and evaluated on two widely used large-scale ML models: Contrastive Language Image Pretraining (CLIP) used for image classification and Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) used for natural language applications. The results show that more than 95 percent of the errors are detected when using a simple Random Forest classifier that is order of magnitude simpler than CLIP or BERT. These results illustrate the potential of CCED to implement error detection in large-scale ML models. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Binary and Ternary Natural Language Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01841  
**Abstract:** Ternary and binary neural networks enable multiplication-free computation and promise multiple orders of magnitude efficiency gains over full-precision networks if implemented on specialized hardware. However, since both the parameter and the output space are highly discretized, such networks have proven very difficult to optimize. The difficulties are compounded for the class of transformer text generation models due to the sensitivity of the attention operation to quantization and the noise-compounding effects of autoregressive decoding in the high-cardinality output space. We approach the problem with a mix of statistics-based quantization for the weights and elastic quantization of the activations and demonstrate the first ternary and binary transformer models on the downstream tasks of summarization and machine translation. Our ternary BART base achieves an R1 score of 41 on the CNN/DailyMail benchmark, which is merely 3.9 points behind the full model while being 16x more efficient. Our binary model, while less accurate, achieves a highly non-trivial score of 35.6. For machine translation, we achieved BLEU scores of 21.7 and 17.6 on the WMT16 En-Ro benchmark, compared with a full precision mBART model score of 26.8. We also compare our approach in the 8-bit activation setting, where our ternary and even binary weight models can match or outperform the best existing 8-bit weight models in the literature. Our code and models are available at: https://github.com/facebookresearch/Ternary_Binary_Transformer 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Open-world Text-specified Object Counting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01851  
**Abstract:** Our objective is open-world object counting in images, where the target object class is specified by a text description. To this end, we propose CounTX, a class-agnostic, single-stage model using a transformer decoder counting head on top of pre-trained joint text-image representations. CounTX is able to count the number of instances of any class given only an image and a text description of the target object class, and can be trained end-to-end. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to tackle the open-world counting problem in this way. In addition to this model, we make the following contributions: (i) we compare the performance of CounTX to prior work on open-world object counting, and show that our approach exceeds the state of the art on all measures on the FSC-147 benchmark for methods that use text to specify the task; (ii) we present and release FSC-147-D, an enhanced version of FSC-147 with text descriptions, so that object classes can be described with more detailed language than their simple class names. FSC-147-D is available at https://github.com/niki-amini-naieni/CounTX/. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Probabilistic Adaptation of Text-to-Video Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01872  
**Abstract:** Large text-to-video models trained on internet-scale data have demonstrated exceptional capabilities in generating high-fidelity videos from arbitrary textual descriptions. However, adapting these models to tasks with limited domain-specific data, such as animation or robotics videos, poses a significant computational challenge, since finetuning a pretrained large model can be prohibitively expensive. Inspired by how a small modifiable component (e.g., prompts, prefix-tuning) can adapt a large language model to perform new tasks without requiring access to the model weights, we investigate how to adapt a large pretrained text-to-video model to a variety of downstream domains and tasks without finetuning. In answering this question, we propose Video Adapter, which leverages the score function of a large pretrained video diffusion model as a probabilistic prior to guide the generation of a task-specific small video model. Our experiments show that Video Adapter is capable of incorporating the broad knowledge and preserving the high fidelity of a large pretrained video model in a task-specific small video model that is able to generate high-quality yet specialized videos on a variety of tasks such as animation, egocentric modeling, and modeling of simulated and real-world robotics data. More videos can be found on the website https://video-adapter.github.io/. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** DiffECG: A Generalized Probabilistic Diffusion Model for ECG Signals  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01875  
**Abstract:** In recent years, deep generative models have gained attention as a promising data augmentation solution for heart disease detection using deep learning approaches applied to ECG signals. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach based on denoising diffusion probabilistic models for ECG synthesis that covers three scenarios: heartbeat generation, partial signal completion, and full heartbeat forecasting. Our approach represents the first generalized conditional approach for ECG synthesis, and our experimental results demonstrate its effectiveness for various ECG-related tasks. Moreover, we show that our approach outperforms other state-of-the-art ECG generative models and can enhance the performance of state-of-the-art classifiers. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Conditional Generation from Unconditional Diffusion Models using  Denoiser Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01900  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models have gained popularity as a generative modeling technique for producing high-quality and diverse images. Applying these models to downstream tasks requires conditioning, which can take the form of text, class labels, or other forms of guidance. However, providing conditioning information to these models can be challenging, particularly when annotations are scarce or imprecise. In this paper, we propose adapting pre-trained unconditional diffusion models to new conditions using the learned internal representations of the denoiser network. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on various conditional generation tasks, including attribute-conditioned generation and mask-conditioned generation. Additionally, we show that augmenting the Tiny ImageNet training set with synthetic images generated by our approach improves the classification accuracy of ResNet baselines by up to 8%. Our approach provides a powerful and flexible way to adapt diffusion models to new conditions and generate high-quality augmented data for various conditional generation tasks. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Unlearnable Examples for Diffusion Models: Protect Data from  Unauthorized Exploitation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01902  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have demonstrated remarkable performance in image generation tasks, paving the way for powerful AIGC applications. However, these widely-used generative models can also raise security and privacy concerns, such as copyright infringement, and sensitive data leakage. To tackle these issues, we propose a method, Unlearnable Diffusion Perturbation, to safeguard images from unauthorized exploitation. Our approach involves designing an algorithm to generate sample-wise perturbation noise for each image to be protected. This imperceptible protective noise makes the data almost unlearnable for diffusion models, i.e., diffusion models trained or fine-tuned on the protected data cannot generate high-quality and diverse images related to the protected training data. Theoretically, we frame this as a max-min optimization problem and introduce EUDP, a noise scheduler-based method to enhance the effectiveness of the protective noise. We evaluate our methods on both Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model and Latent Diffusion Models, demonstrating that training diffusion models on the protected data lead to a significant reduction in the quality of the generated images. Especially, the experimental results on Stable Diffusion demonstrate that our method effectively safeguards images from being used to train Diffusion Models in various tasks, such as training specific objects and styles. This achievement holds significant importance in real-world scenarios, as it contributes to the protection of privacy and copyright against AI-generated content. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** A Simple yet Effective Self-Debiasing Framework for Transformer Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01907  
**Abstract:** Current Transformer-based natural language understanding (NLU) models heavily rely on dataset biases, while failing to handle real-world out-of-distribution (OOD) instances. Many methods have been proposed to deal with this issue, but they ignore the fact that the features learned in different layers of Transformer-based NLU models are different. In this paper, we first conduct preliminary studies to obtain two conclusions: 1) both low- and high-layer sentence representations encode common biased features during training; 2) the low-layer sentence representations encode fewer unbiased features than the highlayer ones. Based on these conclusions, we propose a simple yet effective self-debiasing framework for Transformer-based NLU models. Concretely, we first stack a classifier on a selected low layer. Then, we introduce a residual connection that feeds the low-layer sentence representation to the top-layer classifier. In this way, the top-layer sentence representation will be trained to ignore the common biased features encoded by the low-layer sentence representation and focus on task-relevant unbiased features. During inference, we remove the residual connection and directly use the top-layer sentence representation to make predictions. Extensive experiments and indepth analyses on NLU tasks show that our framework performs better than several competitive baselines, achieving a new SOTA on all OOD test sets. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** PDT: Pretrained Dual Transformers for Time-aware Bipartite Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01913  
**Abstract:** Pre-training on large models is prevalent and emerging with the ever-growing user-generated content in many machine learning application categories. It has been recognized that learning contextual knowledge from the datasets depicting user-content interaction plays a vital role in downstream tasks. Despite several studies attempting to learn contextual knowledge via pre-training methods, finding an optimal training objective and strategy for this type of task remains a challenging problem. In this work, we contend that there are two distinct aspects of contextual knowledge, namely the user-side and the content-side, for datasets where user-content interaction can be represented as a bipartite graph. To learn contextual knowledge, we propose a pre-training method that learns a bi-directional mapping between the spaces of the user-side and the content-side. We formulate the training goal as a contrastive learning task and propose a dual-Transformer architecture to encode the contextual knowledge. We evaluate the proposed method for the recommendation task. The empirical studies have demonstrated that the proposed method outperformed all the baselines with significant gains. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** The Surprising Effectiveness of Diffusion Models for Optical Flow and  Monocular Depth Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01923  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion probabilistic models have transformed image generation with their impressive fidelity and diversity. We show that they also excel in estimating optical flow and monocular depth, surprisingly, without task-specific architectures and loss functions that are predominant for these tasks. Compared to the point estimates of conventional regression-based methods, diffusion models also enable Monte Carlo inference, e.g., capturing uncertainty and ambiguity in flow and depth. With self-supervised pre-training, the combined use of synthetic and real data for supervised training, and technical innovations (infilling and step-unrolled denoising diffusion training) to handle noisy-incomplete training data, and a simple form of coarse-to-fine refinement, one can train state-of-the-art diffusion models for depth and optical flow estimation. Extensive experiments focus on quantitative performance against benchmarks, ablations, and the model's ability to capture uncertainty and multimodality, and impute missing values. Our model, DDVM (Denoising Diffusion Vision Model), obtains a state-of-the-art relative depth error of 0.074 on the indoor NYU benchmark and an Fl-all outlier rate of 3.26\% on the KITTI optical flow benchmark, about 25\% better than the best published method. For an overview see https://diffusion-vision.github.io. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** RITA: Group Attention is All You Need for Timeseries Analytics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01926  
**Abstract:** Timeseries analytics is of great importance in many real-world applications. Recently, the Transformer model, popular in natural language processing, has been leveraged to learn high quality feature embeddings from timeseries, core to the performance of various timeseries analytics tasks. However, the quadratic time and space complexities limit Transformers' scalability, especially for long timeseries. To address these issues, we develop a timeseries analytics tool, RITA, which uses a novel attention mechanism, named group attention, to address this scalability issue. Group attention dynamically clusters the objects based on their similarity into a small number of groups and approximately computes the attention at the coarse group granularity. It thus significantly reduces the time and space complexity, yet provides a theoretical guarantee on the quality of the computed attention. The dynamic scheduler of RITA continuously adapts the number of groups and the batch size in the training process, ensuring group attention always uses the fewest groups needed to meet the approximation quality requirement. Extensive experiments on various timeseries datasets and analytics tasks demonstrate that RITA outperforms the state-of-the-art in accuracy and is significantly faster -- with speedups of up to 63X. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** LIC-GAN: Language Information Conditioned Graph Generative GAN Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01937  
**Abstract:** Deep generative models for Natural Language data offer a new angle on the problem of graph synthesis: by optimizing differentiable models that directly generate graphs, it is possible to side-step expensive search procedures in the discrete and vast space of possible graphs. We introduce LIC-GAN, an implicit, likelihood-free generative model for small graphs that circumvents the need for expensive graph matching procedures. Our method takes as input a natural language query and using a combination of language modelling and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and returns a graph that closely matches the description of the query. We combine our approach with a reward network to further enhance the graph generation with desired properties. Our experiments, show that LIC-GAN does well on metrics such as PropMatch and Closeness getting scores of 0.36 and 0.48. We also show that LIC-GAN performs as good as ChatGPT, with ChatGPT getting scores of 0.40 and 0.42. We also conduct a few experiments to demonstrate the robustness of our method, while also highlighting a few interesting caveats of the model. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Can Contextual Biasing Remain Effective with Whisper and GPT-2?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01942  
**Abstract:** End-to-end automatic speech recognition (ASR) and large language models, such as Whisper and GPT-2, have recently been scaled to use vast amounts of training data. Despite the large amount of training data, infrequent content words that occur in a particular task may still exhibit poor ASR performance, with contextual biasing a possible remedy. This paper investigates the effectiveness of neural contextual biasing for Whisper combined with GPT-2. Specifically, this paper proposes integrating an adapted tree-constrained pointer generator (TCPGen) component for Whisper and a dedicated training scheme to dynamically adjust the final output without modifying any Whisper model parameters. Experiments across three datasets show a considerable reduction in errors on biasing words with a biasing list of 1000 words. Contextual biasing was more effective when applied to domain-specific data and can boost the performance of Whisper and GPT-2 without losing their generality. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Generative Autoencoders as Watermark Attackers: Analyses of  Vulnerabilities and Threats  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01953  
**Abstract:** Invisible watermarks safeguard images' copyrights by embedding hidden messages detectable by owners. It also prevents people from misusing images, especially those generated by AI models. Malicious adversaries can violate these rights by removing the watermarks. In order to remove watermarks without damaging the visual quality, the adversary needs to erase them while retaining the essential information in the image. This is analogous to the encoding and decoding process of generative autoencoders, especially variational autoencoders (VAEs) and diffusion models. We propose a framework using generative autoencoders to remove invisible watermarks and test it using VAEs and diffusions. Our results reveal that, even without specific training, off-the-shelf Stable Diffusion effectively removes most watermarks, surpassing all current attackers. The result underscores the vulnerabilities in existing watermarking schemes and calls for more robust methods for copyright protection. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** DYffusion: A Dynamics-informed Diffusion Model for Spatiotemporal  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01984  
**Abstract:** While diffusion models can successfully generate data and make predictions, they are predominantly designed for static images. We propose an approach for training diffusion models for dynamics forecasting that leverages the temporal dynamics encoded in the data, directly coupling it with the diffusion steps in the network. We train a stochastic, time-conditioned interpolator and a backbone forecaster network that mimic the forward and reverse processes of conventional diffusion models, respectively. This design choice naturally encodes multi-step and long-range forecasting capabilities, allowing for highly flexible, continuous-time sampling trajectories and the ability to trade-off performance with accelerated sampling at inference time. In addition, the dynamics-informed diffusion process imposes a strong inductive bias, allowing for improved computational efficiency compared to traditional Gaussian noise-based diffusion models. Our approach performs competitively on probabilistic skill score metrics in complex dynamics forecasting of sea surface temperatures, Navier-Stokes flows, and spring mesh systems. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Lightweight Structure-aware Transformer Network for VHR Remote Sensing  Image Change Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01988  
**Abstract:** Popular Transformer networks have been successfully applied to remote sensing (RS) image change detection (CD) identifications and achieve better results than most convolutional neural networks (CNNs), but they still suffer from two main problems. First, the computational complexity of the Transformer grows quadratically with the increase of image spatial resolution, which is unfavorable to very high-resolution (VHR) RS images. Second, these popular Transformer networks tend to ignore the importance of fine-grained features, which results in poor edge integrity and internal tightness for largely changed objects and leads to the loss of small changed objects. To address the above issues, this Letter proposes a Lightweight Structure-aware Transformer (LSAT) network for RS image CD. The proposed LSAT has two advantages. First, a Cross-dimension Interactive Self-attention (CISA) module with linear complexity is designed to replace the vanilla self-attention in visual Transformer, which effectively reduces the computational complexity while improving the feature representation ability of the proposed LSAT. Second, a Structure-aware Enhancement Module (SAEM) is designed to enhance difference features and edge detail information, which can achieve double enhancement by difference refinement and detail aggregation so as to obtain fine-grained features of bi-temporal RS images. Experimental results show that the proposed LSAT achieves significant improvement in detection accuracy and offers a better tradeoff between accuracy and computational costs than most state-of-the-art CD methods for VHR RS images. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** GAT-GAN : A Graph-Attention-based Time-Series Generative Adversarial  Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01999  
**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have proven to be a powerful tool for generating realistic synthetic data. However, traditional GANs often struggle to capture complex relationships between features which results in generation of unrealistic multivariate time-series data. In this paper, we propose a Graph-Attention-based Generative Adversarial Network (GAT-GAN) that explicitly includes two graph-attention layers, one that learns temporal dependencies while the other captures spatial relationships. Unlike RNN-based GANs that struggle with modeling long sequences of data points, GAT-GAN generates long time-series data of high fidelity using an adversarially trained autoencoder architecture. Our empirical evaluations, using a variety of real-time-series datasets, show that our framework consistently outperforms state-of-the-art benchmarks based on \emph{Frechet Transformer distance} and \emph{Predictive score}, that characterizes (\emph{Fidelity, Diversity}) and \emph{predictive performance} respectively. Moreover, we introduce a Frechet Inception distance-like (FID) metric for time-series data called Frechet Transformer distance (FTD) score (lower is better), to evaluate the quality and variety of generated data. We also found that low FTD scores correspond to the best-performing downstream predictive experiments. Hence, FTD scores can be used as a standardized metric to evaluate synthetic time-series data. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Memorization Capacity of Multi-Head Attention in Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02010  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we investigate the memorization capabilities of multi-head attention in Transformers, motivated by the central role attention plays in these models. Under a mild linear independence assumption on the input data, we present a theoretical analysis demonstrating that an $H$-head attention layer with a context size $n$, dimension $d$, and $O(Hd^2)$ parameters can memorize $O(Hn)$ examples. We conduct experiments that verify our assumptions on the image classification task using Vision Transformer. To validate our theoretical findings, we perform synthetic experiments and show a linear relationship between memorization capacity and the number of attention heads. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Uncovering the Hidden Dynamics of Video Self-supervised Learning under  Distribution Shifts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02014  
**Abstract:** Video self-supervised learning (VSSL) has made significant progress in recent years. However, the exact behavior and dynamics of these models under different forms of distribution shift are not yet known. In this paper, we comprehensively study the behavior of six popular self-supervised methods (v-SimCLR, v-MOCO, v-BYOL, v-SimSiam, v-DINO, v-MAE) in response to various forms of natural distribution shift, i.e., (i) context shift, (ii) viewpoint shift, (iii) actor shift, (iv) source shift, (v) generalizability to unknown classes (zero-shot), and (vi) open-set recognition. To perform this extensive study, we carefully craft a test bed consisting of $17$ in-distribution and out-of-distribution benchmark pairs using available public datasets and a series of evaluation protocols to stress-test the different methods under the intended shifts. Our study uncovers a series of intriguing findings and interesting behaviors of VSSL methods. For instance, we observe that while video models generally struggle with context shifts, v-MAE and supervised learning exhibit more robustness. Moreover, our study shows that v-MAE is a strong temporal learner, whereas contrastive methods, v-SimCLR and v-MOCO, exhibit strong performances against viewpoint shifts. When studying the notion of open-set recognition, we notice a trade-off between closed-set and open-set recognition performance, particularly if the pretrained VSSL encoders are used without finetuning. We hope that our work will contribute to the development of robust video representation learning frameworks for various real-world scenarios. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Resilient Distributed Parameter Estimation in Sensor Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02017  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we study the problem of parameter estimation in a sensor network, where the measurements and updates of some sensors might be arbitrarily manipulated by adversaries. Despite the presence of such misbehaviors, normally behaving sensors make successive observations of an unknown $d$-dimensional vector parameter and aim to infer its true value by cooperating with their neighbors over a directed communication graph. To this end, by leveraging the so-called dynamic regressor extension and mixing procedure, we transform the problem of estimating the vector parameter to that of estimating $d$ scalar ones. For each of the scalar problem, we propose a resilient combine-then-adapt diffusion algorithm, where each normal sensor performs a resilient combination to discard the suspicious estimates in its neighborhood and to fuse the remaining values, alongside an adaptation step to process its streaming observations. With a low computational cost, this estimator guarantees that each normal sensor exponentially infers the true parameter even if some of them are not sufficiently excited. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Towards Black-box Adversarial Example Detection: A Data  Reconstruction-based Method  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02021  
**Abstract:** Adversarial example detection is known to be an effective adversarial defense method. Black-box attack, which is a more realistic threat and has led to various black-box adversarial training-based defense methods, however, does not attract considerable attention in adversarial example detection. In this paper, we fill this gap by positioning the problem of black-box adversarial example detection (BAD). Data analysis under the introduced BAD settings demonstrates (1) the incapability of existing detectors in addressing the black-box scenario and (2) the potential of exploring BAD solutions from a data perspective. To tackle the BAD problem, we propose a data reconstruction-based adversarial example detection method. Specifically, we use variational auto-encoder (VAE) to capture both pixel and frequency representations of normal examples. Then we use reconstruction error to detect adversarial examples. Compared with existing detection methods, the proposed method achieves substantially better detection performance in BAD, which helps promote the deployment of adversarial example detection-based defense solutions in real-world models. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** ACI-BENCH: a Novel Ambient Clinical Intelligence Dataset for  Benchmarking Automatic Visit Note Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02022  
**Abstract:** Recent immense breakthroughs in generative models such as in GPT4 have precipitated re-imagined ubiquitous usage of these models in all applications. One area that can benefit by improvements in artificial intelligence (AI) is healthcare. The note generation task from doctor-patient encounters, and its associated electronic medical record documentation, is one of the most arduous time-consuming tasks for physicians. It is also a natural prime potential beneficiary to advances in generative models. However with such advances, benchmarking is more critical than ever. Whether studying model weaknesses or developing new evaluation metrics, shared open datasets are an imperative part of understanding the current state-of-the-art. Unfortunately as clinic encounter conversations are not routinely recorded and are difficult to ethically share due to patient confidentiality, there are no sufficiently large clinic dialogue-note datasets to benchmark this task. Here we present the Ambient Clinical Intelligence Benchmark (ACI-BENCH) corpus, the largest dataset to date tackling the problem of AI-assisted note generation from visit dialogue. We also present the benchmark performances of several common state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Exploring the Optimal Choice for Generative Processes in Diffusion  Models: Ordinary vs Stochastic Differential Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02063  
**Abstract:** The diffusion model has shown remarkable success in computer vision, but it remains unclear whether ODE-based probability flow or SDE-based diffusion models are superior and under what circumstances. Comparing the two is challenging due to dependencies on data distribution, score training, and other numerical factors. In this paper, we examine the problem mathematically by examining two limiting scenarios: the ODE case and the large diffusion case. We first introduce a pulse-shape error to perturb the score function and analyze error accumulation, with a generalization to arbitrary error. Our findings indicate that when the perturbation occurs at the end of the generative process, the ODE model outperforms the SDE model (with a large diffusion coefficient). However, when the perturbation occurs earlier, the SDE model outperforms the ODE model, and we demonstrate that the error of sample generation due to pulse-shape error can be exponentially suppressed as the diffusion term's magnitude increases to infinity. Numerical validation of this phenomenon is provided using toy models such as Gaussian, Gaussian mixture models, and Swiss roll. Finally, we experiment with MNIST and observe that varying the diffusion coefficient can improve sample quality even when the score function is not well trained. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Variational Gaussian Process Diffusion Processes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02066  
**Abstract:** Diffusion processes are a class of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) providing a rich family of expressive models that arise naturally in dynamic modelling tasks. Probabilistic inference and learning under generative models with latent processes endowed with a non-linear diffusion process prior are intractable problems. We build upon work within variational inference approximating the posterior process as a linear diffusion process, point out pathologies in the approach, and propose an alternative parameterization of the Gaussian variational process using a continuous exponential family description. This allows us to trade a slow inference algorithm with fixed-point iterations for a fast algorithm for convex optimization akin to natural gradient descent, which also provides a better objective for the learning of model parameters. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** A Conditional Generative Chatbot using Transformer Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02074  
**Abstract:** A Chatbot serves as a communication tool between a human user and a machine to achieve an appropriate answer based on the human input. In more recent approaches, a combination of Natural Language Processing and sequential models are used to build a generative Chatbot. The main challenge of these models is their sequential nature, which leads to less accurate results. To tackle this challenge, in this paper, a novel end-to-end architecture is proposed using conditional Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Networks and a transformer model for answer generation in Chatbots. While the generator of the proposed model consists of a full transformer model to generate an answer, the discriminator includes only the encoder part of a transformer model followed by a classifier. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that a generative Chatbot is proposed using the embedded transformer in both generator and discriminator models. Relying on the parallel computing of the transformer model, the results of the proposed model on the Cornell Movie-Dialog corpus and the Chit-Chat datasets confirm the superiority of the proposed model compared to state-of-the-art alternatives using different evaluation metrics. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Utilizing ChatGPT to Enhance Clinical Trial Enrollment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02077  
**Abstract:** Clinical trials are a critical component of evaluating the effectiveness of new medical interventions and driving advancements in medical research. Therefore, timely enrollment of patients is crucial to prevent delays or premature termination of trials. In this context, Electronic Health Records (EHRs) have emerged as a valuable tool for identifying and enrolling eligible participants. In this study, we propose an automated approach that leverages ChatGPT, a large language model, to extract patient-related information from unstructured clinical notes and generate search queries for retrieving potentially eligible clinical trials. Our empirical evaluation, conducted on two benchmark retrieval collections, shows improved retrieval performance compared to existing approaches when several general-purposed and task-specific prompts are used. Notably, ChatGPT-generated queries also outperform human-generated queries in terms of retrieval performance. These findings highlight the potential use of ChatGPT to enhance clinical trial enrollment while ensuring the quality of medical service and minimizing direct risks to patients. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Unsupervised Low Light Image Enhancement Using SNR-Aware Swin  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02082  
**Abstract:** Image captured under low-light conditions presents unpleasing artifacts, which debilitate the performance of feature extraction for many upstream visual tasks. Low-light image enhancement aims at improving brightness and contrast, and further reducing noise that corrupts the visual quality. Recently, many image restoration methods based on Swin Transformer have been proposed and achieve impressive performance. However, On one hand, trivially employing Swin Transformer for low-light image enhancement would expose some artifacts, including over-exposure, brightness imbalance and noise corruption, etc. On the other hand, it is impractical to capture image pairs of low-light images and corresponding ground-truth, i.e. well-exposed image in same visual scene. In this paper, we propose a dual-branch network based on Swin Transformer, guided by a signal-to-noise ratio prior map which provides the spatial-varying information for low-light image enhancement. Moreover, we leverage unsupervised learning to construct the optimization objective based on Retinex model, to guide the training of proposed network. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model is competitive with the baseline models. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Efficient Text-Guided 3D-Aware Portrait Generation with Score  Distillation Sampling on Distribution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02083  
**Abstract:** Text-to-3D is an emerging task that allows users to create 3D content with infinite possibilities. Existing works tackle the problem by optimizing a 3D representation with guidance from pre-trained diffusion models. An apparent drawback is that they need to optimize from scratch for each prompt, which is computationally expensive and often yields poor visual fidelity. In this paper, we propose DreamPortrait, which aims to generate text-guided 3D-aware portraits in a single-forward pass for efficiency. To achieve this, we extend Score Distillation Sampling from datapoint to distribution formulation, which injects semantic prior into a 3D distribution. However, the direct extension will lead to the mode collapse problem since the objective only pursues semantic alignment. Hence, we propose to optimize a distribution with hierarchical condition adapters and GAN loss regularization. For better 3D modeling, we further design a 3D-aware gated cross-attention mechanism to explicitly let the model perceive the correspondence between the text and the 3D-aware space. These elaborated designs enable our model to generate portraits with robust multi-view semantic consistency, eliminating the need for optimization-based methods. Extensive experiments demonstrate our model's highly competitive performance and significant speed boost against existing methods. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Unsupervised Human Activity Recognition through Two-stage Prompting with  ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02140  
**Abstract:** Wearable sensor devices, which offer the advantage of recording daily objects used by a person while performing an activity, enable the feasibility of unsupervised Human Activity Recognition (HAR). Unfortunately, previous unsupervised approaches using the usage sequence of objects usually require a proper description of activities manually prepared by humans. Instead, we leverage the knowledge embedded in a Large Language Model (LLM) of ChatGPT. Because the sequence of objects robustly characterizes the activity identity, it is possible that ChatGPT already learned the association between activities and objects from existing contexts. However, previous prompt engineering for ChatGPT exhibits limited generalization ability when dealing with a list of words (i.e., sequence of objects) due to the similar weighting assigned to each word in the list. In this study, we propose a two-stage prompt engineering, which first guides ChatGPT to generate activity descriptions associated with objects while emphasizing important objects for distinguishing similar activities; then outputs activity classes and explanations for enhancing the contexts that are helpful for HAR. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that utilizes ChatGPT to recognize activities using objects in an unsupervised manner. We conducted our approach on three datasets and demonstrated the state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** TransDocAnalyser: A Framework for Offline Semi-structured Handwritten  Document Analysis in the Legal Domain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02142  
**Abstract:** State-of-the-art offline Optical Character Recognition (OCR) frameworks perform poorly on semi-structured handwritten domain-specific documents due to their inability to localize and label form fields with domain-specific semantics. Existing techniques for semi-structured document analysis have primarily used datasets comprising invoices, purchase orders, receipts, and identity-card documents for benchmarking. In this work, we build the first semi-structured document analysis dataset in the legal domain by collecting a large number of First Information Report (FIR) documents from several police stations in India. This dataset, which we call the FIR dataset, is more challenging than most existing document analysis datasets, since it combines a wide variety of handwritten text with printed text. We also propose an end-to-end framework for offline processing of handwritten semi-structured documents, and benchmark it on our novel FIR dataset. Our framework used Encoder-Decoder architecture for localizing and labelling the form fields and for recognizing the handwritten content. The encoder consists of Faster-RCNN and Vision Transformers. Further the Transformer-based decoder architecture is trained with a domain-specific tokenizer. We also propose a post-correction method to handle recognition errors pertaining to the domain-specific terms. Our proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art results on the FIR dataset outperforming several existing models 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Towards Coding Social Science Datasets with Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02177  
**Abstract:** Researchers often rely on humans to code (label, annotate, etc.) large sets of texts. This kind of human coding forms an important part of social science research, yet the coding process is both resource intensive and highly variable from application to application. In some cases, efforts to automate this process have achieved human-level accuracies, but to achieve this, these attempts frequently rely on thousands of hand-labeled training examples, which makes them inapplicable to small-scale research studies and costly for large ones. Recent advances in a specific kind of artificial intelligence tool - language models (LMs) - provide a solution to this problem. Work in computer science makes it clear that LMs are able to classify text, without the cost (in financial terms and human effort) of alternative methods. To demonstrate the possibilities of LMs in this area of political science, we use GPT-3, one of the most advanced LMs, as a synthetic coder and compare it to human coders. We find that GPT-3 can match the performance of typical human coders and offers benefits over other machine learning methods of coding text. We find this across a variety of domains using very different coding procedures. This provides exciting evidence that language models can serve as a critical advance in the coding of open-ended texts in a variety of applications. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Question-Context Alignment and Answer-Context Dependencies for Effective  Answer Sentence Selection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02196  
**Abstract:** Answer sentence selection (AS2) in open-domain question answering finds answer for a question by ranking candidate sentences extracted from web documents. Recent work exploits answer context, i.e., sentences around a candidate, by incorporating them as additional input string to the Transformer models to improve the correctness scoring. In this paper, we propose to improve the candidate scoring by explicitly incorporating the dependencies between question-context and answer-context into the final representation of a candidate. Specifically, we use Optimal Transport to compute the question-based dependencies among sentences in the passage where the answer is extracted from. We then represent these dependencies as edges in a graph and use Graph Convolutional Network to derive the representation of a candidate, a node in the graph. Our proposed model achieves significant improvements on popular AS2 benchmarks, i.e., WikiQA and WDRASS, obtaining new state-of-the-art on all benchmarks. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** GPT-FL: Generative Pre-trained Model-Assisted Federated Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02210  
**Abstract:** In this work, we propose GPT-FL, a generative pre-trained model-assisted federated learning (FL) framework. At its core, GPT-FL leverages generative pre-trained models to generate diversified synthetic data. These generated data are used to train a downstream model on the server, which is then fine-tuned with private client data under the standard FL framework. We show that GPT-FL consistently outperforms state-of-the-art FL methods in terms of model test accuracy, communication efficiency, and client sampling efficiency. Through comprehensive ablation analysis, we discover that the downstream model generated by synthetic data plays a crucial role in controlling the direction of gradient diversity during FL training, which enhances convergence speed and contributes to the notable accuracy boost observed with GPT-FL. Also, regardless of whether the target data falls within or outside the domain of the pre-trained generative model, GPT-FL consistently achieves significant performance gains, surpassing the results obtained by models trained solely with FL or synthetic data. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Auto-GPT for Online Decision Making: Benchmarks and Additional Opinions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02224  
**Abstract:** Auto-GPT is an autonomous agent that leverages recent advancements in adapting Large Language Models (LLMs) for decision-making tasks. While there has been a growing interest in Auto-GPT stypled agents, questions remain regarding the effectiveness and flexibility of Auto-GPT in solving real-world decision-making tasks. Its limited capability for real-world engagement and the absence of benchmarks contribute to these uncertainties. In this paper, we present a comprehensive benchmark study of Auto-GPT styled agents in decision-making tasks that simulate real-world scenarios. Our aim is to gain deeper insights into this problem and understand the adaptability of GPT-based agents. We compare the performance of popular LLMs such as GPT-4, GPT-3.5, Claude, and Vicuna in Auto-GPT styled decision-making tasks. Furthermore, we introduce the Additional Opinions algorithm, an easy and effective method that incorporates supervised/imitation-based learners into the Auto-GPT scheme. This approach enables lightweight supervised learning without requiring fine-tuning of the foundational LLMs. We demonstrate through careful baseline comparisons and ablation studies that the Additional Opinions algorithm significantly enhances performance in online decision-making benchmarks, including WebShop and ALFWorld. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Variational convergence of the Scharfetter-Gummel scheme to the  aggregation-diffusion equation and vanishing diffusion limit  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02226  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we explore the convergence of the Scharfetter-Gummel scheme for the aggregation-diffusion equation using a variational approach. Our investigation involves obtaining a novel gradient structure for the finite volume scheme that works consistently for any nonnegative diffusion constant, which allows us to study the discrete-to-continuum and zero-diffusion limits simultaneously. The zero-diffusion limit for the Scharfetter-Gummel scheme corresponds to the upwind finite volume scheme for the aggregation equation. In both cases, we establish a convergence result in terms of gradient structures, recovering the Otto gradient flow structure for the aggregation-diffusion equation based on the 2-Wasserstein distance. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Prompt Sapper: LLM-Empowered Software Engineering Infrastructure for  AI-Native Services  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02230  
**Abstract:** Foundation models, such as GPT-4, DALL-E have brought unprecedented AI "operating system" effect and new forms of human-AI interaction, sparking a wave of innovation in AI-native services, where natural language prompts serve as executable "code" directly (prompt as executable code), eliminating the need for programming language as an intermediary and opening up the door to personal AI. Prompt Sapper has emerged in response, committed to support the development of AI-native services by AI chain engineering. It creates a large language model (LLM) empowered software engineering infrastructure for authoring AI chains through human-AI collaborative intelligence, unleashing the AI innovation potential of every individual, and forging a future where everyone can be a master of AI innovation. This article will introduce the R\&D motivation behind Prompt Sapper, along with its corresponding AI chain engineering methodology and technical practices. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Detector Guidance for Multi-Object Text-to-Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02236  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have demonstrated impressive performance in text-to-image generation. They utilize a text encoder and cross-attention blocks to infuse textual information into images at a pixel level. However, their capability to generate images with text containing multiple objects is still restricted. Previous works identify the problem of information mixing in the CLIP text encoder and introduce the T5 text encoder or incorporate strong prior knowledge to assist with the alignment. We find that mixing problems also occur on the image side and in the cross-attention blocks. The noisy images can cause different objects to appear similar, and the cross-attention blocks inject information at a pixel level, leading to leakage of global object understanding and resulting in object mixing. In this paper, we introduce Detector Guidance (DG), which integrates a latent object detection model to separate different objects during the generation process. DG first performs latent object detection on cross-attention maps (CAMs) to obtain object information. Based on this information, DG then masks conflicting prompts and enhances related prompts by manipulating the following CAMs. We evaluate the effectiveness of DG using Stable Diffusion on COCO, CC, and a novel multi-related object benchmark, MRO. Human evaluations demonstrate that DG provides an 8-22\% advantage in preventing the amalgamation of conflicting concepts and ensuring that each object possesses its unique region without any human involvement and additional iterations. Our implementation is available at \url{https://github.com/luping-liu/Detector-Guidance}. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** ProTeCt: Prompt Tuning for Hierarchical Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02240  
**Abstract:** Large visual-language models, like CLIP, learn generalized representations and have shown promising zero-shot performance. Few-shot adaptation methods, based on prompt tuning, have also been shown to further improve performance on downstream datasets. However, these models are not hierarchically consistent. Frequently, they infer incorrect labels at coarser taxonomic class levels, even when the inference at the leaf level (original class labels) is correct. This is problematic, given their support for open set classification and, in particular, open-grained classification, where practitioners define label sets at various levels of granularity. To address this problem, we propose a prompt tuning technique to calibrate the hierarchical consistency of model predictions. A set of metrics of hierarchical consistency, the Hierarchical Consistent Accuracy (HCA) and the Mean Treecut Accuracy (MTA), are first proposed to benchmark model performance in the open-granularity setting. A prompt tuning technique, denoted as Prompt Tuning for Hierarchical Consistency (ProTeCt), is then proposed to calibrate classification across all possible label set granularities. Results show that ProTeCt can be combined with existing prompt tuning methods to significantly improve open-granularity classification performance without degradation of the original classification performance at the leaf level. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Retrieval-Enhanced Visual Prompt Learning for Few-shot Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02243  
**Abstract:** Prompt learning has become a popular approach for adapting large vision-language models, such as CLIP, to downstream tasks. Typically, prompt learning relies on a fixed prompt token or an input-conditional token to fit a small amount of data under full supervision. While this paradigm can generalize to a certain range of unseen classes, it may struggle when domain gap increases, such as in fine-grained classification and satellite image segmentation. To address this limitation, we propose Retrieval-enhanced Prompt learning (RePrompt), which introduces retrieval mechanisms to cache the knowledge representations from downstream tasks. we first construct a retrieval database from training examples, or from external examples when available. We then integrate this retrieval-enhanced mechanism into various stages of a simple prompt learning baseline. By referencing similar samples in the training set, the enhanced model is better able to adapt to new tasks with few samples. Our extensive experiments over 15 vision datasets, including 11 downstream tasks with few-shot setting and 4 domain generalization benchmarks, demonstrate that RePrompt achieves considerably improved performance. Our proposed approach provides a promising solution to the challenges faced by prompt learning when domain gap increases. The code and models will be available. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** SAM3D: Zero-Shot 3D Object Detection via Segment Anything Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02245  
**Abstract:** With the development of large language models, many remarkable linguistic systems like ChatGPT have thrived and achieved astonishing success on many tasks, showing the incredible power of foundation models. In the spirit of unleashing the capability of foundation models on vision tasks, the Segment Anything Model (SAM), a vision foundation model for image segmentation, has been proposed recently and presents strong zero-shot ability on many downstream 2D tasks. However, whether SAM can be adapted to 3D vision tasks has yet to be explored, especially 3D object detection. With this inspiration, we explore adapting the zero-shot ability of SAM to 3D object detection in this paper. We propose a SAM-powered BEV processing pipeline to detect objects and get promising results on the large-scale Waymo open dataset. As an early attempt, our method takes a step toward 3D object detection with vision foundation models and presents the opportunity to unleash their power on 3D vision tasks. The code is released at https://github.com/DYZhang09/SAM3D. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Predicting Information Pathways Across Online Communities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02259  
**Abstract:** The problem of community-level information pathway prediction (CLIPP) aims at predicting the transmission trajectory of content across online communities. A successful solution to CLIPP holds significance as it facilitates the distribution of valuable information to a larger audience and prevents the proliferation of misinformation. Notably, solving CLIPP is non-trivial as inter-community relationships and influence are unknown, information spread is multi-modal, and new content and new communities appear over time. In this work, we address CLIPP by collecting large-scale, multi-modal datasets to examine the diffusion of online YouTube videos on Reddit. We analyze these datasets to construct community influence graphs (CIGs) and develop a novel dynamic graph framework, INPAC (Information Pathway Across Online Communities), which incorporates CIGs to capture the temporal variability and multi-modal nature of video propagation across communities. Experimental results in both warm-start and cold-start scenarios show that INPAC outperforms seven baselines in CLIPP. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Exposing Bias in Online Communities through Large-Scale Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02294  
**Abstract:** Progress in natural language generation research has been shaped by the ever-growing size of language models. While large language models pre-trained on web data can generate human-sounding text, they also reproduce social biases and contribute to the propagation of harmful stereotypes. This work utilises the flaw of bias in language models to explore the biases of six different online communities. In order to get an insight into the communities' viewpoints, we fine-tune GPT-Neo 1.3B with six social media datasets. The bias of the resulting models is evaluated by prompting the models with different demographics and comparing the sentiment and toxicity values of these generations. Together, these methods reveal that bias differs in type and intensity for the various models. This work not only affirms how easily bias is absorbed from training data but also presents a scalable method to identify and compare the bias of different datasets or communities. Additionally, the examples generated for this work demonstrate the limitations of using automated sentiment and toxicity classifiers in bias research. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** A Mathematical Abstraction for Balancing the Trade-off Between  Creativity and Reality in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02295  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models have become popular for their remarkable capabilities in human-oriented tasks and traditional natural language processing tasks. Its efficient functioning is attributed to the attention mechanism in the Transformer architecture, enabling it to concentrate on particular aspects of the input. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** rPPG-MAE: Self-supervised Pre-training with Masked Autoencoders for  Remote Physiological Measurement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02301  
**Abstract:** Remote photoplethysmography (rPPG) is an important technique for perceiving human vital signs, which has received extensive attention. For a long time, researchers have focused on supervised methods that rely on large amounts of labeled data. These methods are limited by the requirement for large amounts of data and the difficulty of acquiring ground truth physiological signals. To address these issues, several self-supervised methods based on contrastive learning have been proposed. However, they focus on the contrastive learning between samples, which neglect the inherent self-similar prior in physiological signals and seem to have a limited ability to cope with noisy. In this paper, a linear self-supervised reconstruction task was designed for extracting the inherent self-similar prior in physiological signals. Besides, a specific noise-insensitive strategy was explored for reducing the interference of motion and illumination. The proposed framework in this paper, namely rPPG-MAE, demonstrates excellent performance even on the challenging VIPL-HR dataset. We also evaluate the proposed method on two public datasets, namely PURE and UBFC-rPPG. The results show that our method not only outperforms existing self-supervised methods but also exceeds the state-of-the-art (SOTA) supervised methods. One important observation is that the quality of the dataset seems more important than the size in self-supervised pre-training of rPPG. The source code is released at https://github.com/linuxsino/rPPG-MAE. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Temporal Dynamic Quantization for Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02316  
**Abstract:** The diffusion model has gained popularity in vision applications due to its remarkable generative performance and versatility. However, high storage and computation demands, resulting from the model size and iterative generation, hinder its use on mobile devices. Existing quantization techniques struggle to maintain performance even in 8-bit precision due to the diffusion model's unique property of temporal variation in activation. We introduce a novel quantization method that dynamically adjusts the quantization interval based on time step information, significantly improving output quality. Unlike conventional dynamic quantization techniques, our approach has no computational overhead during inference and is compatible with both post-training quantization (PTQ) and quantization-aware training (QAT). Our extensive experiments demonstrate substantial improvements in output quality with the quantized diffusion model across various datasets. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** SpellMapper: A non-autoregressive neural spellchecker for ASR  customization with candidate retrieval based on n-gram mappings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02317  
**Abstract:** Contextual spelling correction models are an alternative to shallow fusion to improve automatic speech recognition (ASR) quality given user vocabulary. To deal with large user vocabularies, most of these models include candidate retrieval mechanisms, usually based on minimum edit distance between fragments of ASR hypothesis and user phrases. However, the edit-distance approach is slow, non-trainable, and may have low recall as it relies only on common letters. We propose: 1) a novel algorithm for candidate retrieval, based on misspelled n-gram mappings, which gives up to 90% recall with just the top 10 candidates on Spoken Wikipedia; 2) a non-autoregressive neural model based on BERT architecture, where the initial transcript and ten candidates are combined into one input. The experiments on Spoken Wikipedia show 21.4% word error rate improvement compared to a baseline ASR system. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Multi-CLIP: Contrastive Vision-Language Pre-training for Question  Answering tasks in 3D Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02329  
**Abstract:** Training models to apply common-sense linguistic knowledge and visual concepts from 2D images to 3D scene understanding is a promising direction that researchers have only recently started to explore. However, it still remains understudied whether 2D distilled knowledge can provide useful representations for downstream 3D vision-language tasks such as 3D question answering. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D pre-training Vision-Language method, namely Multi-CLIP, that enables a model to learn language-grounded and transferable 3D scene point cloud representations. We leverage the representational power of the CLIP model by maximizing the agreement between the encoded 3D scene features and the corresponding 2D multi-view image and text embeddings in the CLIP space via a contrastive objective. To validate our approach, we consider the challenging downstream tasks of 3D Visual Question Answering (3D-VQA) and 3D Situated Question Answering (3D-SQA). To this end, we develop novel multi-modal transformer-based architectures and we demonstrate how our pre-training method can benefit their performance. Quantitative and qualitative experimental results show that Multi-CLIP outperforms state-of-the-art works across the downstream tasks of 3D-VQA and 3D-SQA and leads to a well-structured 3D scene feature space. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Graph Transformer for Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02330  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel approach to representation learning in recommender systems by integrating generative self-supervised learning with graph transformer architecture. We highlight the importance of high-quality data augmentation with relevant self-supervised pretext tasks for improving performance. Towards this end, we propose a new approach that automates the self-supervision augmentation process through a rationale-aware generative SSL that distills informative user-item interaction patterns. The proposed recommender with Graph TransFormer (GFormer) that offers parameterized collaborative rationale discovery for selective augmentation while preserving global-aware user-item relationships. In GFormer, we allow the rationale-aware SSL to inspire graph collaborative filtering with task-adaptive invariant rationalization in graph transformer. The experimental results reveal that our GFormer has the capability to consistently improve the performance over baselines on different datasets. Several in-depth experiments further investigate the invariant rationale-aware augmentation from various aspects. The source code for this work is publicly available at: https://github.com/HKUDS/GFormer. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Leverage Points in Modality Shifts: Comparing Language-only and  Multimodal Word Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02348  
**Abstract:** Multimodal embeddings aim to enrich the semantic information in neural representations of language compared to text-only models. While different embeddings exhibit different applicability and performance on downstream tasks, little is known about the systematic representation differences attributed to the visual modality. Our paper compares word embeddings from three vision-and-language models (CLIP, OpenCLIP and Multilingual CLIP) and three text-only models, with static (FastText) as well as contextual representations (multilingual BERT; XLM-RoBERTa). This is the first large-scale study of the effect of visual grounding on language representations, including 46 semantic parameters. We identify meaning properties and relations that characterize words whose embeddings are most affected by the inclusion of visual modality in the training data; that is, points where visual grounding turns out most important. We find that the effect of visual modality correlates most with denotational semantic properties related to concreteness, but is also detected for several specific semantic classes, as well as for valence, a sentiment-related connotational property of linguistic expressions. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** GAN-based Deidentification of Drivers' Face Videos: An Assessment of  Human Factors Implications in NDS Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02374  
**Abstract:** This paper addresses the problem of sharing drivers' face videos for transportation research while adhering to proper ethical guidelines. The paper first gives an overview of the multitude of problems associated with sharing such data and then proposes a framework on how artificial intelligence-based techniques, specifically face swapping, can be used for de-identifying drivers' faces. Through extensive experimentation with an Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) dataset, we demonstrate the effectiveness of face-swapping algorithms in preserving essential attributes related to human factors research, including eye movements, head movements, and mouth movements. The efficacy of the framework was also tested on various naturalistic driving study data collected at the Virginia Tech Transportation Institute. The results achieved through the proposed techniques were evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively using various metrics. Finally, we discuss possible measures for sharing the de-identified videos with the greater research community. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Modular Transformers: Compressing Transformers into Modularized Layers  for Flexible Efficient Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02379  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained Transformer models like T5 and BART have advanced the state of the art on a wide range of text generation tasks. Compressing these models into smaller ones has become critically important for practical use. Common neural network compression techniques such as knowledge distillation or quantization are limited to static compression where the compression ratio is fixed. In this paper, we introduce Modular Transformers, a modularized encoder-decoder framework for flexible sequence-to-sequence model compression. Modular Transformers train modularized layers that have the same function of two or more consecutive layers in the original model via module replacing and knowledge distillation. After training, the modularized layers can be flexibly assembled into sequence-to-sequence models that meet different performance-efficiency trade-offs. Experimental results show that after a single training phase, by simply varying the assembling strategy, Modular Transformers can achieve flexible compression ratios from 1.1x to 6x with little to moderate relative performance drop. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Spear or Shield: Leveraging Generative AI to Tackle Security Threats of  Intelligent Network Services  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02384  
**Abstract:** Generative AI (GAI) models have been rapidly advancing, with a wide range of applications including intelligent networks and mobile AI-generated content (AIGC) services. Despite their numerous applications and potential, such models create opportunities for novel security challenges. In this paper, we examine the challenges and opportunities of GAI in the realm of the security of intelligent network AIGC services such as suggesting security policies, acting as both a ``spear'' for potential attacks and a ``shield'' as an integral part of various defense mechanisms. First, we present a comprehensive overview of the GAI landscape, highlighting its applications and the techniques underpinning these advancements, especially large language and diffusion models. Then, we investigate the dynamic interplay between GAI's spear and shield roles, highlighting two primary categories of potential GAI-related attacks and their respective defense strategies within wireless networks. A case study illustrates the impact of GAI defense strategies on energy consumption in an image request scenario under data poisoning attack. Our results show that by employing an AI-optimized diffusion defense mechanism, energy can be reduced by 8.7%, and retransmission count can be decreased from 32 images, without defense, to just 6 images, showcasing the effectiveness of GAI in enhancing network security. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Taught by the Internet, Exploring Bias in OpenAIs GPT3  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02428  
**Abstract:** This research delves into the current literature on bias in Natural Language Processing Models and the techniques proposed to mitigate the problem of bias, including why it is important to tackle bias in the first place. Additionally, these techniques are further analysed in the light of newly developed models that tower in size over past editions. To achieve those aims, the authors of this paper conducted their research on GPT3 by OpenAI, the largest NLP model available to consumers today. With 175 billion parameters in contrast to BERTs 340 million, GPT3 is the perfect model to test the common pitfalls of NLP models. Tests were conducted through the development of an Applicant Tracking System using GPT3. For the sake of feasibility and time constraints, the tests primarily focused on gender bias, rather than all or multiple types of bias. Finally, current mitigation techniques are considered and tested to measure their degree of functionality. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** PLANNER: Generating Diversified Paragraph via Latent Language Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02531  
**Abstract:** Autoregressive models for text sometimes generate repetitive and low-quality output because errors accumulate during the steps of generation. This issue is often attributed to exposure bias - the difference between how a model is trained, and how it is used during inference. Denoising diffusion models provide an alternative approach in which a model can revisit and revise its output. However, they can be computationally expensive and prior efforts on text have led to models that produce less fluent output compared to autoregressive models, especially for longer text and paragraphs. In this paper, we propose PLANNER, a model that combines latent semantic diffusion with autoregressive generation, to generate fluent text while exercising global control over paragraphs. The model achieves this by combining an autoregressive "decoding" module with a "planning" module that uses latent diffusion to generate semantic paragraph embeddings in a coarse-to-fine manner. The proposed method is evaluated on various conditional generation tasks, and results on semantic generation, text completion and summarization show its effectiveness in generating high-quality long-form text in an efficient manner. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Inflated 3D Convolution-Transformer for Weakly-supervised Carotid  Stenosis Grading with Ultrasound Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02548  
**Abstract:** Localization of the narrowest position of the vessel and corresponding vessel and remnant vessel delineation in carotid ultrasound (US) are essential for carotid stenosis grading (CSG) in clinical practice. However, the pipeline is time-consuming and tough due to the ambiguous boundaries of plaque and temporal variation. To automatize this procedure, a large number of manual delineations are usually required, which is not only laborious but also not reliable given the annotation difficulty. In this study, we present the first video classification framework for automatic CSG. Our contribution is three-fold. First, to avoid the requirement of laborious and unreliable annotation, we propose a novel and effective video classification network for weakly-supervised CSG. Second, to ease the model training, we adopt an inflation strategy for the network, where pre-trained 2D convolution weights can be adapted into the 3D counterpart in our network. In this way, the existing pre-trained large model can be used as an effective warm start for our network. Third, to enhance the feature discrimination of the video, we propose a novel attention-guided multi-dimension fusion (AMDF) transformer encoder to model and integrate global dependencies within and across spatial and temporal dimensions, where two lightweight cross-dimensional attention mechanisms are designed. Our approach is extensively validated on a large clinically collected carotid US video dataset, demonstrating state-of-the-art performance compared with strong competitors. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Evaluation of AI Chatbots for Patient-Specific EHR Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02549  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the use of artificial intelligence chatbots for patient-specific question answering (QA) from clinical notes using several large language model (LLM) based systems: ChatGPT (versions 3.5 and 4), Google Bard, and Claude. We evaluate the accuracy, relevance, comprehensiveness, and coherence of the answers generated by each model using a 5-point Likert scale on a set of patient-specific questions. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** LLM-Blender: Ensembling Large Language Models with Pairwise Ranking and  Generative Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02561  
**Abstract:** We present LLM-Blender, an ensembling framework designed to attain consistently superior performance by leveraging the diverse strengths of multiple open-source large language models (LLMs). Our framework consists of two modules: PairRanker and GenFuser, addressing the observation that optimal LLMs for different examples can significantly vary. PairRanker employs a specialized pairwise comparison method to distinguish subtle differences between candidate outputs. It jointly encodes the input text and a pair of candidates, using cross-attention encoders to determine the superior one. Our results demonstrate that PairRanker exhibits the highest correlation with ChatGPT-based ranking. Then, GenFuser aims to merge the top-ranked candidates, generating an improved output by capitalizing on their strengths and mitigating their weaknesses. To facilitate large-scale evaluation, we introduce a benchmark dataset, MixInstruct, which is a mixture of multiple instruction datasets featuring oracle pairwise comparisons. Our LLM-Blender significantly outperform individual LLMs and baseline methods across various metrics, establishing a substantial performance gap. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Video Diffusion Models with Local-Global Context Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02562  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as a powerful paradigm in video synthesis tasks including prediction, generation, and interpolation. Due to the limitation of the computational budget, existing methods usually implement conditional diffusion models with an autoregressive inference pipeline, in which the future fragment is predicted based on the distribution of adjacent past frames. However, only the conditions from a few previous frames can't capture the global temporal coherence, leading to inconsistent or even outrageous results in long-term video prediction. In this paper, we propose a Local-Global Context guided Video Diffusion model (LGC-VD) to capture multi-perception conditions for producing high-quality videos in both conditional/unconditional settings. In LGC-VD, the UNet is implemented with stacked residual blocks with self-attention units, avoiding the undesirable computational cost in 3D Conv. We construct a local-global context guidance strategy to capture the multi-perceptual embedding of the past fragment to boost the consistency of future prediction. Furthermore, we propose a two-stage training strategy to alleviate the effect of noisy frames for more stable predictions. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed method achieves favorable performance on video prediction, interpolation, and unconditional video generation. We release code at https://github.com/exisas/LGC-VD. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** $$-Robust Error Analysis of $L2$-$1_$ Scheme on Graded  Mesh for Time-fractional Nonlocal Diffusion Equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02576  
**Abstract:** In this work, a time-fractional nonlocal diffusion equation is considered. Based on the $L2$-$1_{\sigma}$ scheme on a graded mesh in time and the standard finite element method (FEM) in space, the fully-discrete $L2$-$1_{\sigma}$ finite element method is investigated for a time-fractional nonlocal diffusion problem. We prove the existence and uniqueness of fully-discrete solution. The $\alpha$-robust error bounds are derived, i.e. bounds remain valid as $\alpha$ $\rightarrow {1}^{-},$ where $\alpha \ \in (0,1)$ is the order of a temporal fractional derivative. The numerical experiments are presented to justify the theoretical findings. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Stable Diffusion is Untable  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02583  
**Abstract:** Recently, text-to-image models have been thriving. Despite their powerful generative capacity, our research has uncovered a lack of robustness in this generation process. Specifically, the introduction of small perturbations to the text prompts can result in the blending of primary subjects with other categories or their complete disappearance in the generated images. In this paper, we propose Auto-attack on Text-to-image Models (ATM), a gradient-based approach, to effectively and efficiently generate such perturbations. By learning a Gumbel Softmax distribution, we can make the discrete process of word replacement or extension continuous, thus ensuring the differentiability of the perturbation generation. Once the distribution is learned, ATM can sample multiple attack samples simultaneously. These attack samples can prevent the generative model from generating the desired subjects without compromising image quality. ATM has achieved a 91.1% success rate in short-text attacks and an 81.2% success rate in long-text attacks. Further empirical analysis revealed four attack patterns based on: 1) the variability in generation speed, 2) the similarity of coarse-grained characteristics, 3) the polysemy of words, and 4) the positioning of words. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Physics-Informed Kernel Function Neural Networks for Solving Partial  Differential Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02606  
**Abstract:** This paper proposed a novel radial basis function neural network (RBFNN) to solve various partial differential equations (PDEs). In the proposed RBF neural networks, the physics-informed kernel functions (PIKFs), which are derived according to the governing equations of the considered PDEs, are used to be the activation functions instead of the traditional RBFs. Similar to the well-known physics-informed neural networks (PINNs), the proposed physics-informed kernel function neural networks (PIKFNNs) also include the physical information of the considered PDEs in the neural network. The difference is that the PINNs put this physical information in the loss function, and the proposed PIKFNNs put the physical information of the considered governing equations in the activation functions. By using the derived physics-informed kernel functions satisfying the considered governing equations of homogeneous, nonhomogeneous, transient PDEs as the activation functions, only the boundary/initial data are required to train the neural network. Finally, the feasibility and accuracy of the proposed PIKFNNs are validated by several benchmark examples referred to high-wavenumber wave propagation problem, infinite domain problem, nonhomogeneous problem, long-time evolution problem, inverse problem, spatial structural derivative diffusion model, and so on. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Path-Specific Counterfactual Fairness for Recommender Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02615  
**Abstract:** Recommender systems (RSs) have become an indispensable part of online platforms. With the growing concerns of algorithmic fairness, RSs are not only expected to deliver high-quality personalized content, but are also demanded not to discriminate against users based on their demographic information. However, existing RSs could capture undesirable correlations between sensitive features and observed user behaviors, leading to biased recommendations. Most fair RSs tackle this problem by completely blocking the influences of sensitive features on recommendations. But since sensitive features may also affect user interests in a fair manner (e.g., race on culture-based preferences), indiscriminately eliminating all the influences of sensitive features inevitably degenerate the recommendations quality and necessary diversities. To address this challenge, we propose a path-specific fair RS (PSF-RS) for recommendations. Specifically, we summarize all fair and unfair correlations between sensitive features and observed ratings into two latent proxy mediators, where the concept of path-specific bias (PS-Bias) is defined based on path-specific counterfactual inference. Inspired by Pearl's minimal change principle, we address the PS-Bias by minimally transforming the biased factual world into a hypothetically fair world, where a fair RS model can be learned accordingly by solving a constrained optimization problem. For the technical part, we propose a feasible implementation of PSF-RS, i.e., PSF-VAE, with weakly-supervised variational inference, which robustly infers the latent mediators such that unfairness can be mitigated while necessary recommendation diversities can be maximally preserved simultaneously. Experiments conducted on semi-simulated and real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of PSF-RS. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Enhance Diffusion to Improve Robust Generalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02618  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks are susceptible to human imperceptible adversarial perturbations. One of the strongest defense mechanisms is \emph{Adversarial Training} (AT). In this paper, we aim to address two predominant problems in AT. First, there is still little consensus on how to set hyperparameters with a performance guarantee for AT research, and customized settings impede a fair comparison between different model designs in AT research. Second, the robustly trained neural networks struggle to generalize well and suffer from tremendous overfitting. This paper focuses on the primary AT framework - Projected Gradient Descent Adversarial Training (PGD-AT). We approximate the dynamic of PGD-AT by a continuous-time Stochastic Differential Equation (SDE), and show that the diffusion term of this SDE determines the robust generalization. An immediate implication of this theoretical finding is that robust generalization is positively correlated with the ratio between learning rate and batch size. We further propose a novel approach, \emph{Diffusion Enhanced Adversarial Training} (DEAT), to manipulate the diffusion term to improve robust generalization with virtually no extra computational burden. We theoretically show that DEAT obtains a tighter generalization bound than PGD-AT. Our empirical investigation is extensive and firmly attests that DEAT universally outperforms PGD-AT by a significant margin. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Faster Training of Diffusion Models and Improved Density Estimation via  Parallel Score Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02658  
**Abstract:** In Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DPMs), the task of modeling the score evolution via a single time-dependent neural network necessitates extended training periods and may potentially impede modeling flexibility and capacity. To counteract these challenges, we propose leveraging the independence of learning tasks at different time points inherent to DPMs. More specifically, we partition the learning task by utilizing independent networks, each dedicated to learning the evolution of scores within a specific time sub-interval. Further, inspired by residual flows, we extend this strategy to its logical conclusion by employing separate networks to independently model the score at each individual time point. As empirically demonstrated on synthetic and image datasets, our approach not only significantly accelerates the training process by introducing an additional layer of parallelization atop data parallelization, but it also enhances density estimation performance when compared to the conventional training methodology for DPMs. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Solving NP-hard Min-max Routing Problems as Sequential Generation with  Equity Context  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02689  
**Abstract:** Min-max routing problems aim to minimize the maximum tour length among agents as they collaboratively visit all cities, i.e., the completion time. These problems include impactful real-world applications but are known as NP-hard. Existing methods are facing challenges, particularly in large-scale problems that require the coordination of numerous agents to cover thousands of cities. This paper proposes a new deep-learning framework to solve large-scale min-max routing problems. We model the simultaneous decision-making of multiple agents as a sequential generation process, allowing the utilization of scalable deep-learning models for sequential decision-making. In the sequentially approximated problem, we propose a scalable contextual Transformer model, Equity-Transformer, which generates sequential actions considering an equitable workload among other agents. The effectiveness of Equity-Transformer is demonstrated through its superior performance in two representative min-max routing tasks: the min-max multiple traveling salesman problem (min-max mTSP) and the min-max multiple pick-up and delivery problem (min-max mPDP). Notably, our method achieves significant reductions of runtime, approximately 335 times, and cost values of about 53% compared to a competitive heuristic (LKH3) in the case of 100 vehicles with 1,000 cities of mTSP. We provide reproducible source code: https://github.com/kaist-silab/equity-transformer 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Efficient GPT Model Pre-training using Tensor Train Matrix  Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02697  
**Abstract:** Large-scale transformer models have shown remarkable performance in language modelling tasks. However, such models feature billions of parameters, leading to difficulties in their deployment and prohibitive training costs from scratch. To reduce the number of the parameters in the GPT-2 architecture, we replace the matrices of fully-connected layers with the corresponding Tensor Train Matrix~(TTM) structure. Finally, we customize forward and backward operations through the TTM-based layer for simplicity and the stableness of further training. % The resulting GPT-2-based model stores up to 40% fewer parameters, showing the perplexity comparable to the original model. On the downstream tasks, including language understanding and text summarization, the model performs similarly to the original GPT-2 model. The proposed tensorized layers could be used to efficiently pre-training other Transformer models. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Orca: Progressive Learning from Complex Explanation Traces of GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02707  
**Abstract:** Recent research has focused on enhancing the capability of smaller models through imitation learning, drawing on the outputs generated by large foundation models (LFMs). A number of issues impact the quality of these models, ranging from limited imitation signals from shallow LFM outputs; small scale homogeneous training data; and most notably a lack of rigorous evaluation resulting in overestimating the small model's capability as they tend to learn to imitate the style, but not the reasoning process of LFMs. To address these challenges, we develop Orca (We are working with our legal team to publicly release a diff of the model weights in accordance with LLaMA's release policy to be published at https://aka.ms/orca-lm), a 13-billion parameter model that learns to imitate the reasoning process of LFMs. Orca learns from rich signals from GPT-4 including explanation traces; step-by-step thought processes; and other complex instructions, guided by teacher assistance from ChatGPT. To promote this progressive learning, we tap into large-scale and diverse imitation data with judicious sampling and selection. Orca surpasses conventional state-of-the-art instruction-tuned models such as Vicuna-13B by more than 100% in complex zero-shot reasoning benchmarks like Big-Bench Hard (BBH) and 42% on AGIEval. Moreover, Orca reaches parity with ChatGPT on the BBH benchmark and shows competitive performance (4 pts gap with optimized system message) in professional and academic examinations like the SAT, LSAT, GRE, and GMAT, both in zero-shot settings without CoT; while trailing behind GPT-4. Our research indicates that learning from step-by-step explanations, whether these are generated by humans or more advanced AI models, is a promising direction to improve model capabilities and skills. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** User-friendly Image Editing with Minimal Text Input: Leveraging  Captioning and Injection Techniques  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02717  
**Abstract:** Recent text-driven image editing in diffusion models has shown remarkable success. However, the existing methods assume that the user's description sufficiently grounds the contexts in the source image, such as objects, background, style, and their relations. This assumption is unsuitable for real-world applications because users have to manually engineer text prompts to find optimal descriptions for different images. From the users' standpoint, prompt engineering is a labor-intensive process, and users prefer to provide a target word for editing instead of a full sentence. To address this problem, we first demonstrate the importance of a detailed text description of the source image, by dividing prompts into three categories based on the level of semantic details. Then, we propose simple yet effective methods by combining prompt generation frameworks, thereby making the prompt engineering process more user-friendly. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate the importance of prompts in text-driven image editing and our method is comparable to ground-truth prompts. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** ZIGNeRF: Zero-shot 3D Scene Representation with Invertible Generative  Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02741  
**Abstract:** Generative Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in synthesizing multi-view images by learning the distribution of a set of unposed images. Despite the aptitude of existing generative NeRFs in generating 3D-consistent high-quality random samples within data distribution, the creation of a 3D representation of a singular input image remains a formidable challenge. In this manuscript, we introduce ZIGNeRF, an innovative model that executes zero-shot Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) inversion for the generation of multi-view images from a single out-of-domain image. The model is underpinned by a novel inverter that maps out-of-domain images into the latent code of the generator manifold. Notably, ZIGNeRF is capable of disentangling the object from the background and executing 3D operations such as 360-degree rotation or depth and horizontal translation. The efficacy of our model is validated using multiple real-image datasets: Cats, AFHQ, CelebA, CelebA-HQ, and CompCars. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Cheap-fake Detection with LLM using Prompt Engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02776  
**Abstract:** The misuse of real photographs with conflicting image captions in news items is an example of the out-of-context (OOC) misuse of media. In order to detect OOC media, individuals must determine the accuracy of the statement and evaluate whether the triplet (~\textit{i.e.}, the image and two captions) relates to the same event. This paper presents a novel learnable approach for detecting OOC media in ICME'23 Grand Challenge on Detecting Cheapfakes. The proposed method is based on the COSMOS structure, which assesses the coherence between an image and captions, as well as between two captions. We enhance the baseline algorithm by incorporating a Large Language Model (LLM), GPT3.5, as a feature extractor. Specifically, we propose an innovative approach to feature extraction utilizing prompt engineering to develop a robust and reliable feature extractor with GPT3.5 model. The proposed method captures the correlation between two captions and effectively integrates this module into the COSMOS baseline model, which allows for a deeper understanding of the relationship between captions. By incorporating this module, we demonstrate the potential for significant improvements in cheap-fakes detection performance. The proposed methodology holds promising implications for various applications such as natural language processing, image captioning, and text-to-image synthesis. Docker for submission is available at https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/mulns/ acmmmcheapfakes. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Fractional Crank-Nicolson Galerkin finite element analysis for coupled  time-fractional nonlocal parabolic problem  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02805  
**Abstract:** In this article we propose a scheme for solving the coupled time-fractional nonlocal diffusion problem. The scheme consist of fractional Crank-Nicolson method with Galerkin finite element method (FEM) and Newton's method. We derive \emph{a priori} error estimates for fully-discrete solutions in $L^2$ and $H^1_0$ norms. Results based on the usual finite element method are provided to confirm the theoretical estimates. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Transformer-Based UNet with Multi-Headed Cross-Attention Skip  Connections to Eliminate Artifacts in Scanned Documents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02815  
**Abstract:** The extraction of text in high quality is essential for text-based document analysis tasks like Document Classification or Named Entity Recognition. Unfortunately, this is not always ensured, as poor scan quality and the resulting artifacts lead to errors in the Optical Character Recognition (OCR) process. Current approaches using Convolutional Neural Networks show promising results for background removal tasks but fail correcting artifacts like pixelation or compression errors. For general images, Transformer backbones are getting integrated more frequently in well-known neural network structures for denoising tasks. In this work, a modified UNet structure using a Swin Transformer backbone is presented to remove typical artifacts in scanned documents. Multi-headed cross-attention skip connections are used to more selectively learn features in respective levels of abstraction. The performance of this approach is examined regarding compression errors, pixelation and random noise. An improvement in text extraction quality with a reduced error rate of up to 53.9% on the synthetic data is archived. The pretrained base-model can be easily adapted to new artifacts. The cross-attention skip connections allow to integrate textual information extracted from the encoder or in form of commands to more selectively control the models outcome. The latter is shown by means of an example application. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** COMET: Learning Cardinality Constrained Mixture of Experts with Trees  and Local Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02824  
**Abstract:** The sparse Mixture-of-Experts (Sparse-MoE) framework efficiently scales up model capacity in various domains, such as natural language processing and vision. Sparse-MoEs select a subset of the "experts" (thus, only a portion of the overall network) for each input sample using a sparse, trainable gate. Existing sparse gates are prone to convergence and performance issues when training with first-order optimization methods. In this paper, we introduce two improvements to current MoE approaches. First, we propose a new sparse gate: COMET, which relies on a novel tree-based mechanism. COMET is differentiable, can exploit sparsity to speed up computation, and outperforms state-of-the-art gates. Second, due to the challenging combinatorial nature of sparse expert selection, first-order methods are typically prone to low-quality solutions. To deal with this challenge, we propose a novel, permutation-based local search method that can complement first-order methods in training any sparse gate, e.g., Hash routing, Top-k, DSelect-k, and COMET. We show that local search can help networks escape bad initializations or solutions. We performed large-scale experiments on various domains, including recommender systems, vision, and natural language processing. On standard vision and recommender systems benchmarks, COMET+ (COMET with local search) achieves up to 13% improvement in ROC AUC over popular gates, e.g., Hash routing and Top-k, and up to 9% over prior differentiable gates e.g., DSelect-k. When Top-k and Hash gates are combined with local search, we see up to $100\times$ reduction in the budget needed for hyperparameter tuning. Moreover, for language modeling, our approach improves over the state-of-the-art MoEBERT model for distilling BERT on 5/7 GLUE benchmarks as well as SQuAD dataset. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Learning Probabilistic Symmetrization for Architecture Agnostic  Equivariance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02866  
**Abstract:** We present a novel framework to overcome the limitations of equivariant architectures in learning functions with group symmetries. In contrary to equivariant architectures, we use an arbitrary base model (such as an MLP or a transformer) and symmetrize it to be equivariant to the given group by employing a small equivariant network that parameterizes the probabilistic distribution underlying the symmetrization. The distribution is end-to-end trained with the base model which can maximize performance while reducing sample complexity of symmetrization. We show that this approach ensures not only equivariance to given group but also universal approximation capability in expectation. We implement our method on a simple patch-based transformer that can be initialized from pretrained vision transformers, and test it for a wide range of symmetry groups including permutation and Euclidean groups and their combinations. Empirical tests show competitive results against tailored equivariant architectures, suggesting the potential for learning equivariant functions for diverse groups using a non-equivariant universal base architecture. We further show evidence of enhanced learning in symmetric modalities, like graphs, when pretrained from non-symmetric modalities, like vision. Our implementation will be open-sourced at https://github.com/jw9730/lps. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** Benchmarking Middle-Trained Language Models for Neural Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02867  
**Abstract:** Middle training methods aim to bridge the gap between the Masked Language Model (MLM) pre-training and the final finetuning for retrieval. Recent models such as CoCondenser, RetroMAE, and LexMAE argue that the MLM task is not sufficient enough to pre-train a transformer network for retrieval and hence propose various tasks to do so. Intrigued by those novel methods, we noticed that all these models used different finetuning protocols, making it hard to assess the benefits of middle training. We propose in this paper a benchmark of CoCondenser, RetroMAE, and LexMAE, under the same finetuning conditions. We compare both dense and sparse approaches under various finetuning protocols and middle training on different collections (MS MARCO, Wikipedia or Tripclick). We use additional middle training baselines, such as a standard MLM finetuning on the retrieval collection, optionally augmented by a CLS predicting the passage term frequency. For the sparse approach, our study reveals that there is almost no statistical difference between those methods: the more effective the finetuning procedure is, the less difference there is between those models. For the dense approach, RetroMAE using MS MARCO as middle-training collection shows excellent results in almost all the settings. Finally, we show that middle training on the retrieval collection, thus adapting the language model to it, is a critical factor. Overall, a better experimental setup should be adopted to evaluate middle training methods. Code available at https://github.com/naver/splade/tree/benchmarch-SIGIR23 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** On "Scientific Debt" in NLP: A Case for More Rigour in Language Model  Pre-Training Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02870  
**Abstract:** This evidence-based position paper critiques current research practices within the language model pre-training literature. Despite rapid recent progress afforded by increasingly better pre-trained language models (PLMs), current PLM research practices often conflate different possible sources of model improvement, without conducting proper ablation studies and principled comparisons between different models under comparable conditions. These practices (i) leave us ill-equipped to understand which pre-training approaches should be used under what circumstances; (ii) impede reproducibility and credit assignment; and (iii) render it difficult to understand: "How exactly does each factor contribute to the progress that we have today?" We provide a case in point by revisiting the success of BERT over its baselines, ELMo and GPT-1, and demonstrate how -- under comparable conditions where the baselines are tuned to a similar extent -- these baselines (and even-simpler variants thereof) can, in fact, achieve competitive or better performance than BERT. These findings demonstrate how disentangling different factors of model improvements can lead to valuable new insights. We conclude with recommendations for how to encourage and incentivize this line of work, and accelerate progress towards a better and more systematic understanding of what factors drive the progress of our foundation models today. 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** DecompX: Explaining Transformers Decisions by Propagating Token  Decomposition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02873  
**Abstract:** An emerging solution for explaining Transformer-based models is to use vector-based analysis on how the representations are formed. However, providing a faithful vector-based explanation for a multi-layer model could be challenging in three aspects: (1) Incorporating all components into the analysis, (2) Aggregating the layer dynamics to determine the information flow and mixture throughout the entire model, and (3) Identifying the connection between the vector-based analysis and the model's predictions. In this paper, we present DecompX to tackle these challenges. DecompX is based on the construction of decomposed token representations and their successive propagation throughout the model without mixing them in between layers. Additionally, our proposal provides multiple advantages over existing solutions for its inclusion of all encoder components (especially nonlinear feed-forward networks) and the classification head. The former allows acquiring precise vectors while the latter transforms the decomposition into meaningful prediction-based values, eliminating the need for norm- or summation-based vector aggregation. According to the standard faithfulness evaluations, DecompX consistently outperforms existing gradient-based and vector-based approaches on various datasets. Our code is available at https://github.com/mohsenfayyaz/DecompX. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** Representational Strengths and Limitations of Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02896  
**Abstract:** Attention layers, as commonly used in transformers, form the backbone of modern deep learning, yet there is no mathematical description of their benefits and deficiencies as compared with other architectures. In this work we establish both positive and negative results on the representation power of attention layers, with a focus on intrinsic complexity parameters such as width, depth, and embedding dimension. On the positive side, we present a sparse averaging task, where recurrent networks and feedforward networks all have complexity scaling polynomially in the input size, whereas transformers scale merely logarithmically in the input size; furthermore, we use the same construction to show the necessity and role of a large embedding dimension in a transformer. On the negative side, we present a triple detection task, where attention layers in turn have complexity scaling linearly in the input size; as this scenario seems rare in practice, we also present natural variants that can be efficiently solved by attention layers. The proof techniques emphasize the value of communication complexity in the analysis of transformers and related models, and the role of sparse averaging as a prototypical attention task, which even finds use in the analysis of triple detection. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Towards Unified Text-based Person Retrieval: A Large-scale  Multi-Attribute and Language Search Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02898  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce a large Multi-Attribute and Language Search dataset for text-based person retrieval, called MALS, and explore the feasibility of performing pre-training on both attribute recognition and image-text matching tasks in one stone. In particular, MALS contains 1,510,330 image-text pairs, which is about 37.5 times larger than prevailing CUHK-PEDES, and all images are annotated with 27 attributes. Considering the privacy concerns and annotation costs, we leverage the off-the-shelf diffusion models to generate the dataset. To verify the feasibility of learning from the generated data, we develop a new joint Attribute Prompt Learning and Text Matching Learning (APTM) framework, considering the shared knowledge between attribute and text. As the name implies, APTM contains an attribute prompt learning stream and a text matching learning stream. (1) The attribute prompt learning leverages the attribute prompts for image-attribute alignment, which enhances the text matching learning. (2) The text matching learning facilitates the representation learning on fine-grained details, and in turn, boosts the attribute prompt learning. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of the pre-training on MALS, achieving state-of-the-art retrieval performance via APTM on three challenging real-world benchmarks. In particular, APTM achieves a consistent improvement of +6.60%, +7.39%, and +15.90% Recall@1 accuracy on CUHK-PEDES, ICFG-PEDES, and RSTPReid datasets by a clear margin, respectively. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** Robust Fiber ODF Estimation Using Deep Constrained Spherical  Deconvolution for Diffusion MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02900  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) is a critical imaging method for capturing and modeling tissue microarchitecture at a millimeter scale. A common practice to model the measured DW-MRI signal is via fiber orientation distribution function (fODF). This function is the essential first step for the downstream tractography and connectivity analyses. With recent advantages in data sharing, large-scale multi-site DW-MRI datasets are being made available for multi-site studies. However, measurement variabilities (e.g., inter- and intra-site variability, hardware performance, and sequence design) are inevitable during the acquisition of DW-MRI. Most existing model-based methods (e.g., constrained spherical deconvolution (CSD)) and learning based methods (e.g., deep learning (DL)) do not explicitly consider such variabilities in fODF modeling, which consequently leads to inferior performance on multi-site and/or longitudinal diffusion studies. In this paper, we propose a novel data-driven deep constrained spherical deconvolution method to explicitly constrain the scan-rescan variabilities for a more reproducible and robust estimation of brain microstructure from repeated DW-MRI scans. Specifically, the proposed method introduces a new 3D volumetric scanner-invariant regularization scheme during the fODF estimation. We study the Human Connectome Project (HCP) young adults test-retest group as well as the MASiVar dataset (with inter- and intra-site scan/rescan data). The Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA) dataset is employed for external validation. From the experimental results, the proposed data-driven framework outperforms the existing benchmarks in repeated fODF estimation. The proposed method is assessing the downstream connectivity analysis and shows increased performance in distinguishing subjects with different biomarkers. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** Instruct-Video2Avatar: Video-to-Avatar Generation with Instructions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02903  
**Abstract:** We propose a method for synthesizing edited photo-realistic digital avatars with text instructions. Given a short monocular RGB video and text instructions, our method uses an image-conditioned diffusion model to edit one head image and uses the video stylization method to accomplish the editing of other head images. Through iterative training and update (three times or more), our method synthesizes edited photo-realistic animatable 3D neural head avatars with a deformable neural radiance field head synthesis method. In quantitative and qualitative studies on various subjects, our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** SelfEvolve: A Code Evolution Framework via Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02907  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have already revolutionized code generation, after being pretrained on publicly available code data. However, while various methods have been proposed to augment LLMs with retrieved knowledge and enhance the quality of code generation, the performance of these retrieval-based methods is limited by the strength of the retrievers used. In addition, while LLMs show great emergent ability, they still struggle to produce the correct code in one turn. To address these challenges, we propose a novel two-step pipeline, called \autoknow, that leverages LLMs as both knowledge providers and self-reflective programmers. Unlike retrieval-based methods, \autoknow~obtains the knowledge from input prompts and generates intermediate code based on the generated knowledge. After that, \autoknow~asks LLM to act as an expert programmer to perform debugging for the generated code. This is achieved by receiving the error message from the interpreter, without requiring special test cases for correctness verification. We evaluate \autoknow~on three code generation datasets, including DS-1000 for data science code, HumanEval for software engineering code, and TransCoder for C++-to-Python translation. Our empirical experiments show that \autoknow~outperforms strong baselines by a significant margin on all datasets. We also conduct exhaustive analytical experiments to validate the effectiveness of the two stages of \autoknow, and find that both are superior to other prompting-based methods. Further scalability analysis demonstrates that \autoknow~can be adapted to other more advanced models, such as GPT-4, and bring consistent efficacy improvement. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** Beyond Generating Code: Evaluating GPT on a Data Visualization Course  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02914  
**Abstract:** This paper presents an empirical evaluation of the performance of the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) model in Harvard's CS171 data visualization course. While previous studies have focused on GPT's ability to generate code for visualizations, this study goes beyond code generation to evaluate GPT's abilities in various visualization tasks, such as data interpretation, visualization design, visual data exploration, and insight communication. The evaluation utilized GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 to complete assignments of CS171, and included a quantitative assessment based on the established course rubrics, a qualitative analysis informed by the feedback of three experienced graders, and an exploratory study of GPT's capabilities in completing border visualization tasks. Findings show that GPT-4 scored 80% on quizzes and homework, and TFs could distinguish between GPT- and human-generated homework with 70% accuracy. The study also demonstrates GPT's potential in completing various visualization tasks, such as data cleanup, interaction with visualizations, and insight communication. The paper concludes by discussing the strengths and limitations of GPT in data visualization, potential avenues for incorporating GPT in broader visualization tasks, and the need to redesign visualization education. 

**ID:** 94  
**Title:** INDigo: An INN-Guided Probabilistic Diffusion Algorithm for Inverse  Problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02949  
**Abstract:** Recently it has been shown that using diffusion models for inverse problems can lead to remarkable results. However, these approaches require a closed-form expression of the degradation model and can not support complex degradations. To overcome this limitation, we propose a method (INDigo) that combines invertible neural networks (INN) and diffusion models for general inverse problems. Specifically, we train the forward process of INN to simulate an arbitrary degradation process and use the inverse as a reconstruction process. During the diffusion sampling process, we impose an additional data-consistency step that minimizes the distance between the intermediate result and the INN-optimized result at every iteration, where the INN-optimized image is composed of the coarse information given by the observed degraded image and the details generated by the diffusion process. With the help of INN, our algorithm effectively estimates the details lost in the degradation process and is no longer limited by the requirement of knowing the closed-form expression of the degradation model. Experiments demonstrate that our algorithm obtains competitive results compared with recently leading methods both quantitatively and visually. Moreover, our algorithm performs well on more complex degradation models and real-world low-quality images. 

**ID:** 95  
**Title:** Complex Preferences for Different Convergent Priors in Discrete Graph  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02957  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have achieved state-of-the-art performance in generating many different kinds of data, including images, text, and videos. Despite their success, there has been limited research on how the underlying diffusion process and the final convergent prior can affect generative performance; this research has also been limited to continuous data types and a score-based diffusion framework. To fill this gap, we explore how different discrete diffusion kernels (which converge to different prior distributions) affect the performance of diffusion models for graphs. To this end, we developed a novel formulation of a family of discrete diffusion kernels which are easily adjustable to converge to different Bernoulli priors, and we study the effect of these different kernels on generative performance. We show that the quality of generated graphs is sensitive to the prior used, and that the optimal choice cannot be explained by obvious statistics or metrics, which challenges the intuitions which previous works have suggested. 

**ID:** 96  
**Title:** BeyondPixels: A Comprehensive Review of the Evolution of Neural Radiance  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03000  
**Abstract:** Neural rendering combines ideas from classical computer graphics and machine learning to synthesize images from real-world observations. NeRF, short for Neural Radiance Fields, is a recent innovation that uses AI algorithms to create 3D objects from 2D images. By leveraging an interpolation approach, NeRF can produce new 3D reconstructed views of complicated scenes. Rather than directly restoring the whole 3D scene geometry, NeRF generates a volumetric representation called a ``radiance field,'' which is capable of creating color and density for every point within the relevant 3D space. The broad appeal and notoriety of NeRF make it imperative to examine the existing research on the topic comprehensively. While previous surveys on 3D rendering have primarily focused on traditional computer vision-based or deep learning-based approaches, only a handful of them discuss the potential of NeRF. However, such surveys have predominantly focused on NeRF's early contributions and have not explored its full potential. NeRF is a relatively new technique continuously being investigated for its capabilities and limitations. This survey reviews recent advances in NeRF and categorizes them according to their architectural designs, especially in the field of novel view synthesis. 

**ID:** 97  
**Title:** Interpretable Alzheimer's Disease Classification Via a Contrastive  Diffusion Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03022  
**Abstract:** In visual object classification, humans often justify their choices by comparing objects to prototypical examples within that class. We may therefore increase the interpretability of deep learning models by imbuing them with a similar style of reasoning. In this work, we apply this principle by classifying Alzheimer's Disease based on the similarity of images to training examples within the latent space. We use a contrastive loss combined with a diffusion autoencoder backbone, to produce a semantically meaningful latent space, such that neighbouring latents have similar image-level features. We achieve a classification accuracy comparable to black box approaches on a dataset of 2D MRI images, whilst producing human interpretable model explanations. Therefore, this work stands as a contribution to the pertinent development of accurate and interpretable deep learning within medical imaging. 

**ID:** 98  
**Title:** PokemonChat: Auditing ChatGPT for Pokmon Universe Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03024  
**Abstract:** The recently released ChatGPT model demonstrates unprecedented capabilities in zero-shot question-answering. In this work, we probe ChatGPT for its conversational understanding and introduce a conversational framework (protocol) that can be adopted in future studies. The Pok\'emon universe serves as an ideal testing ground for auditing ChatGPT's reasoning capabilities due to its closed world assumption. After bringing ChatGPT's background knowledge (on the Pok\'emon universe) to light, we test its reasoning process when using these concepts in battle scenarios. We then evaluate its ability to acquire new knowledge and include it in its reasoning process. Our ultimate goal is to assess ChatGPT's ability to generalize, combine features, and to acquire and reason over newly introduced knowledge from human feedback. We find that ChatGPT has prior knowledge of the Pokemon universe, which can reason upon in battle scenarios to a great extent, even when new information is introduced. The model performs better with collaborative feedback and if there is an initial phase of information retrieval, but also hallucinates occasionally and is susceptible to adversarial attacks. 

**ID:** 99  
**Title:** Benchmarking Large Language Models on CMExam -- A Comprehensive Chinese  Medical Exam Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03030  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have transformed the field of question answering (QA). However, evaluating LLMs in the medical field is challenging due to the lack of standardized and comprehensive datasets. To address this gap, we introduce CMExam, sourced from the Chinese National Medical Licensing Examination. CMExam consists of 60K+ multiple-choice questions for standardized and objective evaluations, as well as solution explanations for model reasoning evaluation in an open-ended manner. For in-depth analyses of LLMs, we invited medical professionals to label five additional question-wise annotations, including disease groups, clinical departments, medical disciplines, areas of competency, and question difficulty levels. Alongside the dataset, we further conducted thorough experiments with representative LLMs and QA algorithms on CMExam. The results show that GPT-4 had the best accuracy of 61.5% and a weighted F1 score of 0.616. These results highlight a great disparity when compared to human accuracy, which stood at 71.6%. For explanation tasks, while LLMs could generate relevant reasoning and demonstrate improved performance after finetuning, they fall short of a desired standard, indicating ample room for improvement. To the best of our knowledge, CMExam is the first Chinese medical exam dataset to provide comprehensive medical annotations. The experiments and findings of LLM evaluation also provide valuable insights into the challenges and potential solutions in developing Chinese medical QA systems and LLM evaluation pipelines. The dataset and relevant code are available at https://github.com/williamliujl/CMExam. 

**ID:** 100  
**Title:** HeadSculpt: Crafting 3D Head Avatars with Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03038  
**Abstract:** Recently, text-guided 3D generative methods have made remarkable advancements in producing high-quality textures and geometry, capitalizing on the proliferation of large vision-language and image diffusion models. However, existing methods still struggle to create high-fidelity 3D head avatars in two aspects: (1) They rely mostly on a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model whilst missing the necessary 3D awareness and head priors. This makes them prone to inconsistency and geometric distortions in the generated avatars. (2) They fall short in fine-grained editing. This is primarily due to the inherited limitations from the pre-trained 2D image diffusion models, which become more pronounced when it comes to 3D head avatars. In this work, we address these challenges by introducing a versatile coarse-to-fine pipeline dubbed HeadSculpt for crafting (i.e., generating and editing) 3D head avatars from textual prompts. Specifically, we first equip the diffusion model with 3D awareness by leveraging landmark-based control and a learned textual embedding representing the back view appearance of heads, enabling 3D-consistent head avatar generations. We further propose a novel identity-aware editing score distillation strategy to optimize a textured mesh with a high-resolution differentiable rendering technique. This enables identity preservation while following the editing instruction. We showcase HeadSculpt's superior fidelity and editing capabilities through comprehensive experiments and comparisons with existing methods. 

**ID:** 101  
**Title:** SERT: A Transfomer Based Model for Spatio-Temporal Sensor Data with  Missing Values for Environmental Monitoring  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03042  
**Abstract:** Environmental monitoring is crucial to our understanding of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution. The availability of large-scale spatio-temporal data from sources such as sensors and satellites allows us to develop sophisticated models for forecasting and understanding key drivers. However, the data collected from sensors often contain missing values due to faulty equipment or maintenance issues. The missing values rarely occur simultaneously leading to data that are multivariate misaligned sparse time series. We propose two models that are capable of performing multivariate spatio-temporal forecasting while handling missing data naturally without the need for imputation. The first model is a transformer-based model, which we name SERT (Spatio-temporal Encoder Representations from Transformers). The second is a simpler model named SST-ANN (Sparse Spatio-Temporal Artificial Neural Network) which is capable of providing interpretable results. We conduct extensive experiments on two different datasets for multivariate spatio-temporal forecasting and show that our models have competitive or superior performance to those at the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 102  
**Title:** Analyzing Syntactic Generalization Capacity of Pre-trained Language  Models on Japanese Honorific Conversion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03055  
**Abstract:** Using Japanese honorifics is challenging because it requires not only knowledge of the grammatical rules but also contextual information, such as social relationships. It remains unclear whether pre-trained large language models (LLMs) can flexibly handle Japanese honorifics like humans. To analyze this, we introduce an honorific conversion task that considers social relationships among people mentioned in a conversation. We construct a Japanese honorifics dataset from problem templates of various sentence structures to investigate the syntactic generalization capacity of GPT-3, one of the leading LLMs, on this task under two settings: fine-tuning and prompt learning. Our results showed that the fine-tuned GPT-3 performed better in a context-aware honorific conversion task than the prompt-based one. The fine-tuned model demonstrated overall syntactic generalizability towards compound honorific sentences, except when tested with the data involving direct speech. 

**ID:** 103  
**Title:** Machine Learning and Statistical Approaches to Measuring Similarity of  Political Parties  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03079  
**Abstract:** Mapping political party systems to metric policy spaces is one of the major methodological problems in political science. At present, in most political science project this task is performed by domain experts relying on purely qualitative assessments, with all the attendant problems of subjectivity and labor intensiveness. We consider how advances in natural language processing, including large transformer-based language models, can be applied to solve that issue. We apply a number of texts similarity measures to party political programs, analyze how they correlate with each other, and -- in the absence of a satisfactory benchmark -- evaluate them against other measures, including those based on expert surveys, voting records, electoral patterns, and candidate networks. Finally, we consider the prospects of relying on those methods to correct, supplement, and eventually replace expert judgments. 

**ID:** 104  
**Title:** InstructZero: Efficient Instruction Optimization for Black-Box Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03082  
**Abstract:** Large language models~(LLMs) are instruction followers, but it can be challenging to find the best instruction for different situations, especially for black-box LLMs on which backpropagation is forbidden. Instead of directly optimizing the discrete instruction, we optimize a low-dimensional soft prompt applied to an open-source LLM to generate the instruction for the black-box LLM. On each iteration of the proposed method, which we call InstructZero, a soft prompt is converted into an instruction using the open-source LLM, which is then submitted to the black-box LLM for zero-shot evaluation, and the performance is sent to Bayesian optimization to produce new soft prompts improving the zero-shot performance. We evaluate InstructZero on different combinations of open-source LLMs and APIs including Vicuna and ChatGPT. Our results show that InstructZero outperforms SOTA auto-instruction methods across a variety of downstream tasks. Our code and data are publicly available at https://github.com/Lichang-Chen/InstructZero. 

**ID:** 105  
**Title:** MotionDiffuser: Controllable Multi-Agent Motion Prediction using  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03083  
**Abstract:** We present MotionDiffuser, a diffusion based representation for the joint distribution of future trajectories over multiple agents. Such representation has several key advantages: first, our model learns a highly multimodal distribution that captures diverse future outcomes. Second, the simple predictor design requires only a single L2 loss training objective, and does not depend on trajectory anchors. Third, our model is capable of learning the joint distribution for the motion of multiple agents in a permutation-invariant manner. Furthermore, we utilize a compressed trajectory representation via PCA, which improves model performance and allows for efficient computation of the exact sample log probability. Subsequently, we propose a general constrained sampling framework that enables controlled trajectory sampling based on differentiable cost functions. This strategy enables a host of applications such as enforcing rules and physical priors, or creating tailored simulation scenarios. MotionDiffuser can be combined with existing backbone architectures to achieve top motion forecasting results. We obtain state-of-the-art results for multi-agent motion prediction on the Waymo Open Motion Dataset. 

**ID:** 106  
**Title:** Brain Diffusion for Visual Exploration: Cortical Discovery using Large  Scale Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03089  
**Abstract:** A long standing goal in neuroscience has been to elucidate the functional organization of the brain. Within higher visual cortex, functional accounts have remained relatively coarse, focusing on regions of interest (ROIs) and taking the form of selectivity for broad categories such as faces, places, bodies, food, or words. Because the identification of such ROIs has typically relied on manually assembled stimulus sets consisting of isolated objects in non-ecological contexts, exploring functional organization without robust a priori hypotheses has been challenging. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a data-driven approach in which we synthesize images predicted to activate a given brain region using paired natural images and fMRI recordings, bypassing the need for category-specific stimuli. Our approach -- Brain Diffusion for Visual Exploration ("BrainDiVE") -- builds on recent generative methods by combining large-scale diffusion models with brain-guided image synthesis. Validating our method, we demonstrate the ability to synthesize preferred images with appropriate semantic specificity for well-characterized category-selective ROIs. We then show that BrainDiVE can characterize differences between ROIs selective for the same high-level category. Finally we identify novel functional subdivisions within these ROIs, validated with behavioral data. These results advance our understanding of the fine-grained functional organization of human visual cortex, and provide well-specified constraints for further examination of cortical organization using hypothesis-driven methods. 

**ID:** 107  
**Title:** Is ChatGPT a Good Teacher Coach? Measuring Zero-Shot Performance For  Scoring and Providing Actionable Insights on Classroom Instruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03090  
**Abstract:** Coaching, which involves classroom observation and expert feedback, is a widespread and fundamental part of teacher training. However, the majority of teachers do not have access to consistent, high quality coaching due to limited resources and access to expertise. We explore whether generative AI could become a cost-effective complement to expert feedback by serving as an automated teacher coach. In doing so, we propose three teacher coaching tasks for generative AI: (A) scoring transcript segments based on classroom observation instruments, (B) identifying highlights and missed opportunities for good instructional strategies, and (C) providing actionable suggestions for eliciting more student reasoning. We recruit expert math teachers to evaluate the zero-shot performance of ChatGPT on each of these tasks for elementary math classroom transcripts. Our results reveal that ChatGPT generates responses that are relevant to improving instruction, but they are often not novel or insightful. For example, 82% of the model's suggestions point to places in the transcript where the teacher is already implementing that suggestion. Our work highlights the challenges of producing insightful, novel and truthful feedback for teachers while paving the way for future research to address these obstacles and improve the capacity of generative AI to coach teachers. 

**ID:** 108  
**Title:** Generative Diffusion for 3D Turbulent Flows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01776  
**Abstract:** Turbulent flows are well known to be chaotic and hard to predict; however, their dynamics differ between two and three dimensions. While 2D turbulence tends to form large, coherent structures, in three dimensions vortices cascade to smaller and smaller scales. This cascade creates many fast-changing, small-scale structures and amplifies the unpredictability, making regression-based methods infeasible. We propose the first generative model for forced turbulence in arbitrary 3D geometries and introduce a sample quality metric for turbulent flows based on the Wasserstein distance of the generated velocity-vorticity distribution. In several experiments, we show that our generative diffusion model circumvents the unpredictability of turbulent flows and produces high-quality samples based solely on geometric information. Furthermore, we demonstrate that our model beats an industrial-grade numerical solver in the time to generate a turbulent flow field from scratch by an order of magnitude. 

**ID:** 109  
**Title:** DiffPack: A Torsional Diffusion Model for Autoregressive Protein  Side-Chain Packing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.01794  
**Abstract:** Proteins play a critical role in carrying out biological functions, and their 3D structures are essential in determining their functions. Accurately predicting the conformation of protein side-chains given their backbones is important for applications in protein structure prediction, design and protein-protein interactions. Traditional methods are computationally intensive and have limited accuracy, while existing machine learning methods treat the problem as a regression task and overlook the restrictions imposed by the constant covalent bond lengths and angles. In this work, we present DiffPack, a torsional diffusion model that learns the joint distribution of side-chain torsional angles, the only degrees of freedom in side-chain packing, by diffusing and denoising on the torsional space. To avoid issues arising from simultaneous perturbation of all four torsional angles, we propose autoregressively generating the four torsional angles from \c{hi}1 to \c{hi}4 and training diffusion models for each torsional angle. We evaluate the method on several benchmarks for protein side-chain packing and show that our method achieves improvements of 11.9% and 13.5% in angle accuracy on CASP13 and CASP14, respectively, with a significantly smaller model size (60x fewer parameters). Additionally, we show the effectiveness of our method in enhancing side-chain predictions in the AlphaFold2 model. Code will be available upon the accept. 

**ID:** 110  
**Title:** Training Data Attribution for Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02174  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have become increasingly popular for synthesizing high-quality samples based on training datasets. However, given the oftentimes enormous sizes of the training datasets, it is difficult to assess how training data impact the samples produced by a trained diffusion model. The difficulty of relating diffusion model inputs and outputs poses significant challenges to model explainability and training data attribution. Here we propose a novel solution that reveals how training data influence the output of diffusion models through the use of ensembles. In our approach individual models in an encoded ensemble are trained on carefully engineered splits of the overall training data to permit the identification of influential training examples. The resulting model ensembles enable efficient ablation of training data influence, allowing us to assess the impact of training data on model outputs. We demonstrate the viability of these ensembles as generative models and the validity of our approach to assessing influence. 

**ID:** 111  
**Title:** TransRUPNet for Improved Out-of-Distribution Generalization in Polyp  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02176  
**Abstract:** Out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization is a critical challenge in deep learning. It is specifically important when the test samples are drawn from a different distribution than the training data. We develop a novel real-time deep learning based architecture, TransRUPNet that is based on a Transformer and residual upsampling network for colorectal polyp segmentation to improve OOD generalization. The proposed architecture, TransRUPNet, is an encoder-decoder network that consists of three encoder blocks, three decoder blocks, and some additional upsampling blocks at the end of the network. With the image size of $256\times256$, the proposed method achieves an excellent real-time operation speed of \textbf{47.07} frames per second with an average mean dice coefficient score of 0.7786 and mean Intersection over Union of 0.7210 on the out-of-distribution polyp datasets. The results on the publicly available PolypGen dataset (OOD dataset in our case) suggest that TransRUPNet can give real-time feedback while retaining high accuracy for in-distribution dataset. Furthermore, we demonstrate the generalizability of the proposed method by showing that it significantly improves performance on OOD datasets compared to the existing methods. 

**ID:** 112  
**Title:** SpeechGen: Unlocking the Generative Power of Speech Language Models with  Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02207  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have gained considerable attention for Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC), particularly with the emergence of ChatGPT. However, the direct adaptation of continuous speech to LLMs that process discrete tokens remains an unsolved challenge, hindering the application of LLMs for speech generation. The advanced speech LMs are in the corner, as that speech signals encapsulate a wealth of information, including speaker and emotion, beyond textual data alone. Prompt tuning has demonstrated notable gains in parameter efficiency and competitive performance on some speech classification tasks. However, the extent to which prompts can effectively elicit generation tasks from speech LMs remains an open question. In this paper, we present pioneering research that explores the application of prompt tuning to stimulate speech LMs for various generation tasks, within a unified framework called SpeechGen, with around 10M trainable parameters. The proposed unified framework holds great promise for efficiency and effectiveness, particularly with the imminent arrival of advanced speech LMs, which will significantly enhance the capabilities of the framework. The code and demos of SpeechGen will be available on the project website: \url{https://ga642381.github.io/SpeechPrompt/speechgen} 

**ID:** 113  
**Title:** Coupled Variational Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02565  
**Abstract:** Variational auto-encoders are powerful probabilistic models in generative tasks but suffer from generating low-quality samples which are caused by the holes in the prior. We propose the Coupled Variational Auto-Encoder (C-VAE), which formulates the VAE problem as one of Optimal Transport (OT) between the prior and data distributions. The C-VAE allows greater flexibility in priors and natural resolution of the prior hole problem by enforcing coupling between the prior and the data distribution and enables flexible optimization through the primal, dual, and semi-dual formulations of entropic OT. Simulations on synthetic and real data show that the C-VAE outperforms alternatives including VAE, WAE, and InfoVAE in fidelity to the data, quality of the latent representation, and in quality of generated samples. 

**ID:** 114  
**Title:** Latent Optimal Paths by Gumbel Propagation for Variational Bayesian  Dynamic Programming  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02568  
**Abstract:** We propose a unified approach to obtain structured sparse optimal paths in the latent space of a variational autoencoder (VAE) using dynamic programming and Gumbel propagation. We solve the classical optimal path problem by a probability softening solution, called the stochastic optimal path, and transform a wide range of DP problems into directed acyclic graphs in which all possible paths follow a Gibbs distribution. We show the equivalence of the Gibbs distribution to a message-passing algorithm by the properties of the Gumbel distribution and give all the ingredients required for variational Bayesian inference. Our approach obtaining latent optimal paths enables end-to-end training for generative tasks in which models rely on the information of unobserved structural features. We validate the behavior of our approach and showcase its applicability in two real-world applications: text-to-speech and singing voice synthesis. 

**ID:** 115  
**Title:** A Vessel-Segmentation-Based CycleGAN for Unpaired Multi-modal Retinal  Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02901  
**Abstract:** Unpaired image-to-image translation of retinal images can efficiently increase the training dataset for deep-learning-based multi-modal retinal registration methods. Our method integrates a vessel segmentation network into the image-to-image translation task by extending the CycleGAN framework. The segmentation network is inserted prior to a UNet vision transformer generator network and serves as a shared representation between both domains. We reformulate the original identity loss to learn the direct mapping between the vessel segmentation and the real image. Additionally, we add a segmentation loss term to ensure shared vessel locations between fake and real images. In the experiments, our method shows a visually realistic look and preserves the vessel structures, which is a prerequisite for generating multi-modal training data for image registration. 

**ID:** 116  
**Title:** Simultaneous or Sequential Training? How Speech Representations  Cooperate in a Multi-Task Self-Supervised Learning System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02972  
**Abstract:** Speech representation learning with self-supervised algorithms has resulted in notable performance boosts in many downstream tasks. Recent work combined self-supervised learning (SSL) and visually grounded speech (VGS) processing mechanisms for representation learning. The joint training with SSL and VGS mechanisms provides the opportunity to utilize both unlabeled speech and speech-related visual information based on data availability. This has shown to enhance the quality of learned representations, especially at encoding semantic- and lexical-level knowledge. In this work, we further study the joint optimization of wav2vec 2.0-based SSL and transformer-based VGS as a multi-task learning system. We explore a set of training scenarios to understand how speech representations are shared or transferred between the two tasks, and what is the optimal training strategy for cross-modal semantic retrieval and phoneme discrimination performance. As a result, we find that sequential training with wav2vec 2.0 first and VGS next provides higher performance on audio-visual retrieval compared to simultaneous optimization of both learning mechanisms. However, the parallel SSL-VGS training reduces the effects of catastrophic forgetting when switching between optimization criteria. Moreover, the results suggest that phonemic representations learned through the VGS mechanism may generalize better across datasets compared to those learned with SSL. 

**ID:** 117  
**Title:** Brain tumor segmentation using synthetic MR images -- A comparison of  GANs and diffusion models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.02986  
**Abstract:** Large annotated datasets are required for training deep learning models, but in medical imaging data sharing is often complicated due to ethics, anonymization and data protection legislation (e.g. the general data protection regulation (GDPR)). Generative AI models, such as generative adversarial networks (GANs) and diffusion models, can today produce very realistic synthetic images, and can potentially facilitate data sharing as GDPR should not apply for medical images which do not belong to a specific person. However, in order to share synthetic images it must first be demonstrated that they can be used for training different networks with acceptable performance. Here, we therefore comprehensively evaluate four GANs (progressive GAN, StyleGAN 1-3) and a diffusion model for the task of brain tumor segmentation. Our results show that segmentation networks trained on synthetic images reach Dice scores that are 80\% - 90\% of Dice scores when training with real images, but that memorization of the training images can be a problem for diffusion models if the original dataset is too small. Furthermore, we demonstrate that common metrics for evaluating synthetic images, Fr\'echet inception distance (FID) and inception score (IS), do not correlate well with the obtained performance when using the synthetic images for training segmentation networks. 

**ID:** 118  
**Title:** Using Sequences of Life-events to Predict Human Lives  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03009  
**Abstract:** Over the past decade, machine learning has revolutionized computers' ability to analyze text through flexible computational models. Due to their structural similarity to written language, transformer-based architectures have also shown promise as tools to make sense of a range of multi-variate sequences from protein-structures, music, electronic health records to weather-forecasts. We can also represent human lives in a way that shares this structural similarity to language. From one perspective, lives are simply sequences of events: People are born, visit the pediatrician, start school, move to a new location, get married, and so on. Here, we exploit this similarity to adapt innovations from natural language processing to examine the evolution and predictability of human lives based on detailed event sequences. We do this by drawing on arguably the most comprehensive registry data in existence, available for an entire nation of more than six million individuals across decades. Our data include information about life-events related to health, education, occupation, income, address, and working hours, recorded with day-to-day resolution. We create embeddings of life-events in a single vector space showing that this embedding space is robust and highly structured. Our models allow us to predict diverse outcomes ranging from early mortality to personality nuances, outperforming state-of-the-art models by a wide margin. Using methods for interpreting deep learning models, we probe the algorithm to understand the factors that enable our predictions. Our framework allows researchers to identify new potential mechanisms that impact life outcomes and associated possibilities for personalized interventions. 

