**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Seeing Seeds Beyond Weeds: Green Teaming Generative AI for Beneficial  Uses  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03097  
**Abstract:** Large generative AI models (GMs) like GPT and DALL-E are trained to generate content for general, wide-ranging purposes. GM content filters are generalized to filter out content which has a risk of harm in many cases, e.g., hate speech. However, prohibited content is not always harmful -- there are instances where generating prohibited content can be beneficial. So, when GMs filter out content, they preclude beneficial use cases along with harmful ones. Which use cases are precluded reflects the values embedded in GM content filtering. Recent work on red teaming proposes methods to bypass GM content filters to generate harmful content. We coin the term green teaming to describe methods of bypassing GM content filters to design for beneficial use cases. We showcase green teaming by: 1) Using ChatGPT as a virtual patient to simulate a person experiencing suicidal ideation, for suicide support training; 2) Using Codex to intentionally generate buggy solutions to train students on debugging; and 3) Examining an Instagram page using Midjourney to generate images of anti-LGBTQ+ politicians in drag. Finally, we discuss how our use cases demonstrate green teaming as both a practical design method and a mode of critique, which problematizes and subverts current understandings of harms and values in generative AI. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** ChatGPT is a Remarkable Tool -- For Experts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03102  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the capabilities of ChatGPT as an automated assistant in diverse domains, including scientific writing, mathematics, education, programming, and healthcare. We explore the potential of ChatGPT to enhance productivity, streamline problem-solving processes, and improve writing style. Furthermore, we highlight the potential risks associated with excessive reliance on ChatGPT in these fields. These limitations encompass factors like incorrect and fictitious responses, inaccuracies in code, limited logical reasoning abilities, overconfidence, and critical ethical concerns of copyrights and privacy violation. We outline areas and objectives where ChatGPT proves beneficial, applications where it should be used judiciously, and scenarios where its reliability may be limited. In light of observed limitations, and given that the tool's fundamental errors may pose a special challenge for non-experts, ChatGPT should be used with a strategic methodology. By drawing from comprehensive experimental studies, we offer methods and flow charts for effectively using ChatGPT. Our recommendations emphasize iterative interaction with ChatGPT and independent verification of its outputs. Considering the importance of utilizing ChatGPT judiciously and with expertise, we recommend its usage for experts who are well-versed in the respective domains. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** SwinRDM: Integrate SwinRNN with Diffusion Model towards High-Resolution  and High-Quality Weather Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03110  
**Abstract:** Data-driven medium-range weather forecasting has attracted much attention in recent years. However, the forecasting accuracy at high resolution is unsatisfactory currently. Pursuing high-resolution and high-quality weather forecasting, we develop a data-driven model SwinRDM which integrates an improved version of SwinRNN with a diffusion model. SwinRDM performs predictions at 0.25-degree resolution and achieves superior forecasting accuracy to IFS (Integrated Forecast System), the state-of-the-art operational NWP model, on representative atmospheric variables including 500 hPa geopotential (Z500), 850 hPa temperature (T850), 2-m temperature (T2M), and total precipitation (TP), at lead times of up to 5 days. We propose to leverage a two-step strategy to achieve high-resolution predictions at 0.25-degree considering the trade-off between computation memory and forecasting accuracy. Recurrent predictions for future atmospheric fields are firstly performed at 1.40625-degree resolution, and then a diffusion-based super-resolution model is leveraged to recover the high spatial resolution and finer-scale atmospheric details. SwinRDM pushes forward the performance and potential of data-driven models for a large margin towards operational applications. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** An Upwind Finite Difference Method to Singularly Perturbed Convection  Diffusion Problems on a Shishkin Mesh  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03181  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a numerical approach to solve singularly perturbed convection diffusion boundary value problems for second-order ordinary differential equations that feature a small positive parameter {\epsilon} multiplying the highest derivative. We specifically examine Dirichlet boundary conditions. To solve this differential equation, we propose an upwind finite difference method and incorporate the Shishkin mesh scheme to capture the solution near boundary layers. Our solver is both direct and of high accuracy, with computation time that scales linearly with the number of grid points. MATLAB code of the numerical recipe is made publicly available. We present numerical results to validate the theoretical results and assess the accuracy of our method. The tables and graphs included in this paper demonstrate the numerical outcomes, which indicate that our proposed method offers a highly accurate approximation of the exact solution. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** ChatGPT as a mapping assistant: A novel method to enrich maps with  generative AI and content derived from street-level photographs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03204  
**Abstract:** This paper explores the concept of leveraging generative AI as a mapping assistant for enhancing the efficiency of collaborative mapping. We present results of an experiment that combines multiple sources of volunteered geographic information (VGI) and large language models (LLMs). Three analysts described the content of crowdsourced Mapillary street-level photographs taken along roads in a small test area in Miami, Florida. GPT-3.5-turbo was instructed to suggest the most appropriate tagging for each road in OpenStreetMap (OSM). The study also explores the utilization of BLIP-2, a state-of-the-art multimodal pre-training method as an artificial analyst of street-level photographs in addition to human analysts. Results demonstrate two ways to effectively increase the accuracy of mapping suggestions without modifying the underlying AI models: by (1) providing a more detailed description of source photographs, and (2) combining prompt engineering with additional context (e.g. location and objects detected along a road). The first approach increases the suggestion accuracy by up to 29%, and the second one by up to 20%. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** H2-Mapping: Real-time Dense Mapping Using Hierarchical Hybrid  Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03207  
**Abstract:** Constructing a high-quality dense map in real-time is essential for robotics, AR/VR, and digital twins applications. As Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) greatly improves the mapping performance, in this paper, we propose a NeRF-based mapping method that enables higher-quality reconstruction and real-time capability even on edge computers. Specifically, we propose a novel hierarchical hybrid representation that leverages implicit multiresolution hash encoding aided by explicit octree SDF priors, describing the scene at different levels of detail. This representation allows for fast scene geometry initialization and makes scene geometry easier to learn. Besides, we present a coverage-maximizing keyframe selection strategy to address the forgetting issue and enhance mapping quality, particularly in marginal areas. To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first to achieve high-quality NeRF-based mapping on edge computers of handheld devices and quadrotors in real-time. Experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms existing NeRF-based mapping methods in geometry accuracy, texture realism, and time consumption. The code will be released at: https://github.com/SYSU-STAR/H2-Mapping 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Information Flow Control in Machine Learning through Modular Model  Architecture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03235  
**Abstract:** In today's machine learning (ML) models, any part of the training data can affect its output. This lack of control for information flow from training data to model output is a major obstacle in training models on sensitive data when access control only allows individual users to access a subset of data. To enable secure machine learning for access controlled data, we propose the notion of information flow control for machine learning, and develop a secure Transformer-based language model based on the Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architecture. The secure MoE architecture controls information flow by limiting the influence of training data from each security domain to a single expert module, and only enabling a subset of experts at inference time based on an access control policy. The evaluation using a large corpus of text data shows that the proposed MoE architecture has minimal (1.9%) performance overhead and can significantly improve model accuracy (up to 37%) by enabling training on access-controlled data. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Zero-Shot 3D Shape Correspondence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03253  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel zero-shot approach to computing correspondences between 3D shapes. Existing approaches mainly focus on isometric and near-isometric shape pairs (e.g., human vs. human), but less attention has been given to strongly non-isometric and inter-class shape matching (e.g., human vs. cow). To this end, we introduce a fully automatic method that exploits the exceptional reasoning capabilities of recent foundation models in language and vision to tackle difficult shape correspondence problems. Our approach comprises multiple stages. First, we classify the 3D shapes in a zero-shot manner by feeding rendered shape views to a language-vision model (e.g., BLIP2) to generate a list of class proposals per shape. These proposals are unified into a single class per shape by employing the reasoning capabilities of ChatGPT. Second, we attempt to segment the two shapes in a zero-shot manner, but in contrast to the co-segmentation problem, we do not require a mutual set of semantic regions. Instead, we propose to exploit the in-context learning capabilities of ChatGPT to generate two different sets of semantic regions for each shape and a semantic mapping between them. This enables our approach to match strongly non-isometric shapes with significant differences in geometric structure. Finally, we employ the generated semantic mapping to produce coarse correspondences that can further be refined by the functional maps framework to produce dense point-to-point maps. Our approach, despite its simplicity, produces highly plausible results in a zero-shot manner, especially between strongly non-isometric shapes. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** shs-nlp at RadSum23: Domain-Adaptive Pre-training of Instruction-tuned  LLMs for Radiology Report Impression Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03264  
**Abstract:** Instruction-tuned generative Large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and Bloomz possess excellent generalization abilities, but they face limitations in understanding radiology reports, particularly in the task of generating the IMPRESSIONS section from the FINDINGS section. They tend to generate either verbose or incomplete IMPRESSIONS, mainly due to insufficient exposure to medical text data during training. We present a system which leverages large-scale medical text data for domain-adaptive pre-training of instruction-tuned LLMs to enhance its medical knowledge and performance on specific medical tasks. We show that this system performs better in a zero-shot setting than a number of pretrain-and-finetune adaptation methods on the IMPRESSIONS generation task, and ranks 1st among participating systems in Task 1B: Radiology Report Summarization at the BioNLP 2023 workshop. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Stack Over-Flowing with Results: The Case for Domain-Specific  Pre-Training Over One-Size-Fits-All Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03268  
**Abstract:** Large pre-trained neural language models have brought immense progress to both NLP and software engineering. Models in OpenAI's GPT series now dwarf Google's BERT and Meta's RoBERTa, which previously set new benchmarks on a wide range of NLP applications. These models are trained on massive corpora of heterogeneous data from web crawls, which enables them to learn general language patterns and semantic relationships. However, the largest models are both expensive to train and deploy and are often closed-source, so we lack access to their data and design decisions. We argue that this trend towards large, general-purpose models should be complemented with single-purpose, more modestly sized pre-trained models. In this work, we take StackOverflow (SO) as a domain example in which large volumes of rich aligned code and text data is available. We adopt standard practices for pre-training large language models, including using a very large context size (2,048 tokens), batch size (0.5M tokens) and training set (27B tokens), coupled with a powerful toolkit (Megatron-LM), to train two models: SOBertBase, with 109M parameters, and SOBertLarge with 762M parameters, at a budget of just $187 and $800 each. We compare the performance of our models with both the previous SOTA model trained on SO data exclusively as well general-purpose BERT models and OpenAI's ChatGPT on four SO-specific downstream tasks - question quality prediction, closed question prediction, named entity recognition and obsoletion prediction (a new task we introduce). Not only do our models consistently outperform all baselines, the smaller model is often sufficient for strong results. Both models are released to the public. These results demonstrate that pre-training both extensively and properly on in-domain data can yield a powerful and affordable alternative to leveraging closed-source general-purpose models. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Optimizing Sampling Patterns for Compressed Sensing MRI with Diffusion  Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03284  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based generative models have been used as powerful priors for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) reconstruction. We present a learning method to optimize sub-sampling patterns for compressed sensing multi-coil MRI that leverages pre-trained diffusion generative models. Crucially, during training we use a single-step reconstruction based on the posterior mean estimate given by the diffusion model and the MRI measurement process. Experiments across varying anatomies, acceleration factors, and pattern types show that sampling operators learned with our method lead to competitive, and in the case of 2D patterns, improved reconstructions compared to baseline patterns. Our method requires as few as five training images to learn effective sampling patterns. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** ISI-Mitigating Character Encoding for Molecular communications via  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03297  
**Abstract:** This letter introduces a novel algorithm for generating codebooks in molecular communications (MC). The proposed algorithm utilizes character entropy to effectively mitigate inter-symbol interference (ISI) during MC via diffusion. Based on Huffman coding, the algorithm ensures that consecutive bit-1s are avoided in the resulting codebook. Additionally, the error-correction process at the receiver effectively eliminates ISI in the time slot immediately following a bit-1. We conduct an ISI analysis, which confirms that the proposed algorithm significantly reduces decoding errors. Through numerical analysis, we demonstrate that the proposed codebook exhibits superior performance in terms of character error rate compared to existing codebooks. Furthermore, we validate the performance of the algorithm through experimentation on a real-time testbed. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Multi-Agent Collaboration: Harnessing the Power of Intelligent LLM  Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03314  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a novel framework for enhancing the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) by leveraging the power of multi-agent systems. Our framework introduces a collaborative environment where multiple intelligent agent components, each with distinctive attributes and roles, work together to handle complex tasks more efficiently and effectively. We demonstrate the practicality and versatility of our framework through case studies in artificial general intelligence (AGI), specifically focusing on the Auto-GPT and BabyAGI models. We also examine the "Gorilla" model, which integrates external APIs into the LLM. Our framework addresses limitations and challenges such as looping issues, security risks, scalability, system evaluation, and ethical considerations. By modeling various domains such as courtroom simulations and software development scenarios, we showcase the potential applications and benefits of our proposed multi-agent system. Our framework provides an avenue for advancing the capabilities and performance of LLMs through collaboration and knowledge exchange among intelligent agents. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** PGformer: Proxy-Bridged Game Transformer for Multi-Person Extremely  Interactive Motion Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03374  
**Abstract:** Multi-person motion prediction is a challenging task, especially for real-world scenarios of densely interacted persons. Most previous works have been devoted to studying the case of weak interactions (e.g., hand-shaking), which typically forecast each human pose in isolation. In this paper, we focus on motion prediction for multiple persons with extreme collaborations and attempt to explore the relationships between the highly interactive persons' motion trajectories. Specifically, a novel cross-query attention (XQA) module is proposed to bilaterally learn the cross-dependencies between the two pose sequences tailored for this situation. Additionally, we introduce and build a proxy entity to bridge the involved persons, which cooperates with our proposed XQA module and subtly controls the bidirectional information flows, acting as a motion intermediary. We then adapt these designs to a Transformer-based architecture and devise a simple yet effective end-to-end framework called proxy-bridged game Transformer (PGformer) for multi-person interactive motion prediction. The effectiveness of our method has been evaluated on the challenging ExPI dataset, which involves highly interactive actions. We show that our PGformer consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in both short- and long-term predictions by a large margin. Besides, our approach can also be compatible with the weakly interacted CMU-Mocap and MuPoTS-3D datasets and achieve encouraging results. Our code will become publicly available upon acceptance. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Identifying Shared Decodable Concepts in the Human Brain Using  Image-Language Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03375  
**Abstract:** We introduce a method that takes advantage of high-quality pretrained multimodal representations to explore fine-grained semantic networks in the human brain. Previous studies have documented evidence of functional localization in the brain, with different anatomical regions preferentially activating for different types of sensory input. Many such localized structures are known, including the fusiform face area and parahippocampal place area. This raises the question of whether additional brain regions (or conjunctions of brain regions) are also specialized for other important semantic concepts. To identify such brain regions, we developed a data-driven approach to uncover visual concepts that are decodable from a massive functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) dataset. Our analysis is broadly split into three sections. First, a fully connected neural network is trained to map brain responses to the outputs of an image-language foundation model, CLIP (Radford et al., 2021). Subsequently, a contrastive-learning dimensionality reduction method reveals the brain-decodable components of CLIP space. In the final section of our analysis, we localize shared decodable concepts in the brain using a voxel-masking optimization method to produce a shared decodable concept (SDC) space. The accuracy of our procedure is validated by comparing it to previous localization experiments that identify regions for faces, bodies, and places. In addition to these concepts, whose corresponding brain regions were already known, we localize novel concept representations which are shared across participants to other areas of the human brain. We also demonstrate how this method can be used to inspect fine-grained semantic networks for individual participants. We envisage that this extensible method can also be adapted to explore other questions at the intersection of AI and neuroscience. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** TextFormer: A Query-based End-to-End Text Spotter with Mixed Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03377  
**Abstract:** End-to-end text spotting is a vital computer vision task that aims to integrate scene text detection and recognition into a unified framework. Typical methods heavily rely on Region-of-Interest (RoI) operations to extract local features and complex post-processing steps to produce final predictions. To address these limitations, we propose TextFormer, a query-based end-to-end text spotter with Transformer architecture. Specifically, using query embedding per text instance, TextFormer builds upon an image encoder and a text decoder to learn a joint semantic understanding for multi-task modeling. It allows for mutual training and optimization of classification, segmentation, and recognition branches, resulting in deeper feature sharing without sacrificing flexibility or simplicity. Additionally, we design an Adaptive Global aGgregation (AGG) module to transfer global features into sequential features for reading arbitrarily-shaped texts, which overcomes the sub-optimization problem of RoI operations. Furthermore, potential corpus information is utilized from weak annotations to full labels through mixed supervision, further improving text detection and end-to-end text spotting results. Extensive experiments on various bilingual (i.e., English and Chinese) benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our method. Especially on TDA-ReCTS dataset, TextFormer surpasses the state-of-the-art method in terms of 1-NED by 13.2%. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Origin-Destination Network Generation via Gravity-Guided GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03390  
**Abstract:** Origin-destination (OD) flow, which contains valuable population mobility information including direction and volume, is critical in many urban applications, such as urban planning, transportation management, etc. However, OD data is not always easy to access due to high costs or privacy concerns. Therefore, we must consider generating OD through mathematical models. Existing works utilize physics laws or machine learning (ML) models to build the association between urban structures and OD flows while these two kinds of methods suffer from the limitation of over-simplicity and poor generalization ability, respectively. In this paper, we propose to adopt physics-informed ML paradigm, which couple the physics scientific knowledge and data-driven ML methods, to construct a model named Origin-Destination Generation Networks (ODGN) for better population mobility modeling by leveraging the complementary strengths of combining physics and ML methods. Specifically, we first build a Multi-view Graph Attention Networks (MGAT) to capture the urban features of every region and then use a gravity-guided predictor to obtain OD flow between every two regions. Furthermore, we use a conditional GAN training strategy and design a sequence-based discriminator to consider the overall topological features of OD as a network. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets have been done to demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method compared with baselines. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** SGAT4PASS: Spherical Geometry-Aware Transformer for PAnoramic Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03403  
**Abstract:** As an important and challenging problem in computer vision, PAnoramic Semantic Segmentation (PASS) gives complete scene perception based on an ultra-wide angle of view. Usually, prevalent PASS methods with 2D panoramic image input focus on solving image distortions but lack consideration of the 3D properties of original $360^{\circ}$ data. Therefore, their performance will drop a lot when inputting panoramic images with the 3D disturbance. To be more robust to 3D disturbance, we propose our Spherical Geometry-Aware Transformer for PAnoramic Semantic Segmentation (SGAT4PASS), considering 3D spherical geometry knowledge. Specifically, a spherical geometry-aware framework is proposed for PASS. It includes three modules, i.e., spherical geometry-aware image projection, spherical deformable patch embedding, and a panorama-aware loss, which takes input images with 3D disturbance into account, adds a spherical geometry-aware constraint on the existing deformable patch embedding, and indicates the pixel density of original $360^{\circ}$ data, respectively. Experimental results on Stanford2D3D Panoramic datasets show that SGAT4PASS significantly improves performance and robustness, with approximately a 2% increase in mIoU, and when small 3D disturbances occur in the data, the stability of our performance is improved by an order of magnitude. Our code and supplementary material are available at https://github.com/TencentARC/SGAT4PASS. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** DreamSparse: Escaping from Plato's Cave with 2D Diffusion Model Given  Sparse Views  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03414  
**Abstract:** Synthesizing novel view images from a few views is a challenging but practical problem. Existing methods often struggle with producing high-quality results or necessitate per-object optimization in such few-view settings due to the insufficient information provided. In this work, we explore leveraging the strong 2D priors in pre-trained diffusion models for synthesizing novel view images. 2D diffusion models, nevertheless, lack 3D awareness, leading to distorted image synthesis and compromising the identity. To address these problems, we propose DreamSparse, a framework that enables the frozen pre-trained diffusion model to generate geometry and identity-consistent novel view image. Specifically, DreamSparse incorporates a geometry module designed to capture 3D features from sparse views as a 3D prior. Subsequently, a spatial guidance model is introduced to convert these 3D feature maps into spatial information for the generative process. This information is then used to guide the pre-trained diffusion model, enabling it to generate geometrically consistent images without tuning it. Leveraging the strong image priors in the pre-trained diffusion models, DreamSparse is capable of synthesizing high-quality novel views for both object and scene-level images and generalising to open-set images. Experimental results demonstrate that our framework can effectively synthesize novel view images from sparse views and outperforms baselines in both trained and open-set category images. More results can be found on our project page: https://sites.google.com/view/dreamsparse-webpage. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** I'm Afraid I Can't Do That: Predicting Prompt Refusal in Black-Box  Generative Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03423  
**Abstract:** Since the release of OpenAI's ChatGPT, generative language models have attracted extensive public attention. The increased usage has highlighted generative models' broad utility, but also revealed several forms of embedded bias. Some is induced by the pre-training corpus; but additional bias specific to generative models arises from the use of subjective fine-tuning to avoid generating harmful content. Fine-tuning bias may come from individual engineers and company policies, and affects which prompts the model chooses to refuse. In this experiment, we characterize ChatGPT's refusal behavior using a black-box attack. We first query ChatGPT with a variety of offensive and benign prompts (n=1,730), then manually label each response as compliance or refusal. Manual examination of responses reveals that refusal is not cleanly binary, and lies on a continuum; as such, we map several different kinds of responses to a binary of compliance or refusal. The small manually-labeled dataset is used to train a refusal classifier, which achieves an accuracy of 92%. Second, we use this refusal classifier to bootstrap a larger (n=10,000) dataset adapted from the Quora Insincere Questions dataset. With this machine-labeled data, we train a prompt classifier to predict whether ChatGPT will refuse a given question, without seeing ChatGPT's response. This prompt classifier achieves 76% accuracy on a test set of manually labeled questions (n=1,009). We examine our classifiers and the prompt n-grams that are most predictive of either compliance or refusal. Datasets and code are available at https://github.com/maxwellreuter/chatgpt-refusals. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Change Diffusion: Change Detection Map Generation Based on  Difference-Feature Guided DDPM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03424  
**Abstract:** Deep learning (DL) approaches based on CNN-purely or Transformer networks have demonstrated promising results in bitemporal change detection (CD). However, their performance is limited by insufficient contextual information aggregation, as they struggle to fully capture the implicit contextual dependency relationships among feature maps at different levels. Additionally, researchers have utilized pre-trained denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) for training lightweight CD classifiers. Nevertheless, training a DDPM to generate intricately detailed, multi-channel remote sensing images requires months of training time and a substantial volume of unlabeled remote sensing datasets, making it significantly more complex than generating a single-channel change map. To overcome these challenges, we propose a novel end-to-end DDPM-based model architecture called change-aware diffusion model (CADM), which can be trained using a limited annotated dataset quickly. Furthermore, we introduce dynamic difference conditional encoding to enhance step-wise regional attention in DDPM for bitemporal images in CD datasets. This method establishes state-adaptive conditions for each sampling step, emphasizing two main innovative points of our model: 1) its end-to-end nature and 2) difference conditional encoding. We evaluate CADM on four remote sensing CD tasks with different ground scenarios, including CDD, WHU, Levier, and GVLM. Experimental results demonstrate that CADM significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods, indicating the generalization and effectiveness of the proposed model. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Protecting the Intellectual Property of Diffusion Models by the  Watermark Diffusion Process  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03436  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as state-of-the-art deep generative architectures with the increasing demands for generation tasks. Training large diffusion models for good performance requires high resource costs, making them valuable intellectual properties to protect. While most of the existing ownership solutions, including watermarking, mainly focus on discriminative models. This paper proposes WDM, a novel watermarking method for diffusion models, including watermark embedding, extraction, and verification. WDM embeds the watermark data through training or fine-tuning the diffusion model to learn a Watermark Diffusion Process (WDP), different from the standard diffusion process for the task data. The embedded watermark can be extracted by sampling using the shared reverse noise from the learned WDP without degrading performance on the original task. We also provide theoretical foundations and analysis of the proposed method by connecting the WDP to the diffusion process with a modified Gaussian kernel. Extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate its effectiveness and robustness against various attacks. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** DFormer: Diffusion-guided Transformer for Universal Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03437  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces an approach, named DFormer, for universal image segmentation. The proposed DFormer views universal image segmentation task as a denoising process using a diffusion model. DFormer first adds various levels of Gaussian noise to ground-truth masks, and then learns a model to predict denoising masks from corrupted masks. Specifically, we take deep pixel-level features along with the noisy masks as inputs to generate mask features and attention masks, employing diffusion-based decoder to perform mask prediction gradually. At inference, our DFormer directly predicts the masks and corresponding categories from a set of randomly-generated masks. Extensive experiments reveal the merits of our proposed contributions on different image segmentation tasks: panoptic segmentation, instance segmentation, and semantic segmentation. Our DFormer outperforms the recent diffusion-based panoptic segmentation method Pix2Seq-D with a gain of 3.6% on MS COCO val2017 set. Further, DFormer achieves promising semantic segmentation performance outperforming the recent diffusion-based method by 2.2% on ADE20K val set. Our source code and models will be publicly on https://github.com/cp3wan/DFormer 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** SciCap+: A Knowledge Augmented Dataset to Study the Challenges of  Scientific Figure Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03491  
**Abstract:** In scholarly documents, figures provide a straightforward way of communicating scientific findings to readers. Automating figure caption generation helps move model understandings of scientific documents beyond text and will help authors write informative captions that facilitate communicating scientific findings. Unlike previous studies, we reframe scientific figure captioning as a knowledge-augmented image captioning task that models need to utilize knowledge embedded across modalities for caption generation. To this end, we extended the large-scale SciCap dataset~\cite{hsu-etal-2021-scicap-generating} to SciCap+ which includes mention-paragraphs (paragraphs mentioning figures) and OCR tokens. Then, we conduct experiments with the M4C-Captioner (a multimodal transformer-based model with a pointer network) as a baseline for our study. Our results indicate that mention-paragraphs serves as additional context knowledge, which significantly boosts the automatic standard image caption evaluation scores compared to the figure-only baselines. Human evaluations further reveal the challenges of generating figure captions that are informative to readers. The code and SciCap+ dataset will be publicly available at https://github.com/ZhishenYang/scientific_figure_captioning_dataset 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Recognize Anything: A Strong Image Tagging Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03514  
**Abstract:** We present the Recognize Anything Model (RAM): a strong foundation model for image tagging. RAM can recognize any common category with high accuracy. RAM introduces a new paradigm for image tagging, leveraging large-scale image-text pairs for training instead of manual annotations. The development of RAM comprises four key steps. Firstly, annotation-free image tags are obtained at scale through automatic text semantic parsing. Subsequently, a preliminary model is trained for automatic annotation by unifying the caption and tagging tasks, supervised by the original texts and parsed tags, respectively. Thirdly, a data engine is employed to generate additional annotations and clean incorrect ones. Lastly, the model is retrained with the processed data and fine-tuned using a smaller but higher-quality dataset. We evaluate the tagging capabilities of RAM on numerous benchmarks and observe impressive zero-shot performance, significantly outperforming CLIP and BLIP. Remarkably, RAM even surpasses the fully supervised manners and exhibits competitive performance with the Google API. We are releasing the RAM at \url{https://recognize-anything.github.io/} to foster the advancements of large models in computer vision. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Logic Diffusion for Knowledge Graph Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03515  
**Abstract:** Most recent works focus on answering first order logical queries to explore the knowledge graph reasoning via multi-hop logic predictions. However, existing reasoning models are limited by the circumscribed logical paradigms of training samples, which leads to a weak generalization of unseen logic. To address these issues, we propose a plug-in module called Logic Diffusion (LoD) to discover unseen queries from surroundings and achieves dynamical equilibrium between different kinds of patterns. The basic idea of LoD is relation diffusion and sampling sub-logic by random walking as well as a special training mechanism called gradient adaption. Besides, LoD is accompanied by a novel loss function to further achieve the robust logical diffusion when facing noisy data in training or testing sets. Extensive experiments on four public datasets demonstrate the superiority of mainstream knowledge graph reasoning models with LoD over state-of-the-art. Moreover, our ablation study proves the general effectiveness of LoD on the noise-rich knowledge graph. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Machine learning in and out of equilibrium  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03521  
**Abstract:** The algorithms used to train neural networks, like stochastic gradient descent (SGD), have close parallels to natural processes that navigate a high-dimensional parameter space -- for example protein folding or evolution. Our study uses a Fokker-Planck approach, adapted from statistical physics, to explore these parallels in a single, unified framework. We focus in particular on the stationary state of the system in the long-time limit, which in conventional SGD is out of equilibrium, exhibiting persistent currents in the space of network parameters. As in its physical analogues, the current is associated with an entropy production rate for any given training trajectory. The stationary distribution of these rates obeys the integral and detailed fluctuation theorems -- nonequilibrium generalizations of the second law of thermodynamics. We validate these relations in two numerical examples, a nonlinear regression network and MNIST digit classification. While the fluctuation theorems are universal, there are other aspects of the stationary state that are highly sensitive to the training details. Surprisingly, the effective loss landscape and diffusion matrix that determine the shape of the stationary distribution vary depending on the simple choice of minibatching done with or without replacement. We can take advantage of this nonequilibrium sensitivity to engineer an equilibrium stationary state for a particular application: sampling from a posterior distribution of network weights in Bayesian machine learning. We propose a new variation of stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics (SGLD) that harnesses without replacement minibatching. In an example system where the posterior is exactly known, this SGWORLD algorithm outperforms SGLD, converging to the posterior orders of magnitude faster as a function of the learning rate. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** SDR-GAIN: A High Real-Time Occluded Pedestrian Pose Completion Method  for Autonomous Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03538  
**Abstract:** To mitigate the challenges arising from partial occlusion in human pose keypoint based pedestrian detection methods , we present a novel pedestrian pose keypoint completion method called the separation and dimensionality reduction-based generative adversarial imputation networks (SDR-GAIN) . Firstly, we utilize OpenPose to estimate pedestrian poses in images. Then, we isolate the head and torso keypoints of pedestrians with incomplete keypoints due to occlusion or other factors and perform dimensionality reduction to enhance features and further unify feature distribution. Finally, we introduce two generative models based on the generative adversarial networks (GAN) framework, which incorporate Huber loss, residual structure, and L1 regularization to generate missing parts of the incomplete head and torso pose keypoints of partially occluded pedestrians, resulting in pose completion. Our experiments on MS COCO and JAAD datasets demonstrate that SDR-GAIN outperforms basic GAIN framework, interpolation methods PCHIP and MAkima, machine learning methods k-NN and MissForest in terms of pose completion task. In addition, the runtime of SDR-GAIN is approximately 0.4ms, displaying high real-time performance and significant application value in the field of autonomous driving. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** An Approach to Solving the Abstraction and Reasoning Corpus (ARC)  Challenge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03553  
**Abstract:** We utilise the power of Large Language Models (LLMs), in particular GPT4, to be prompt engineered into performing an arbitrary task. Here, we give the model some human priors via text, along with some typical procedures for solving the ARC tasks, and ask it to generate the i) broad description of the input-output relation, ii) detailed steps of the input-output mapping, iii) use the detailed steps to perform manipulation on the test input and derive the test output. The current GPT3.5/GPT4 prompt solves 2 out of 4 tested small ARC challenges (those with small grids of 8x8 and below). With tweaks to the prompt to make it more specific for the use case, it can solve more. We posit that when scaled to a multi-agent system with usage of past memory and equipped with an image interpretation tool via Visual Question Answering, we may actually be able to solve the majority of the ARC challenge 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Human 3D Avatar Modeling with Implicit Neural Representation: A Brief  Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03576  
**Abstract:** A human 3D avatar is one of the important elements in the metaverse, and the modeling effect directly affects people's visual experience. However, the human body has a complex topology and diverse details, so it is often expensive, time-consuming, and laborious to build a satisfactory model. Recent studies have proposed a novel method, implicit neural representation, which is a continuous representation method and can describe objects with arbitrary topology at arbitrary resolution. Researchers have applied implicit neural representation to human 3D avatar modeling and obtained more excellent results than traditional methods. This paper comprehensively reviews the application of implicit neural representation in human body modeling. First, we introduce three implicit representations of occupancy field, SDF, and NeRF, and make a classification of the literature investigated in this paper. Then the application of implicit modeling methods in the body, hand, and head are compared and analyzed respectively. Finally, we point out the shortcomings of current work and provide available suggestions for researchers. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** An Open Patch Generator based Fingerprint Presentation Attack Detection  using Generative Adversarial Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03577  
**Abstract:** The low-cost, user-friendly, and convenient nature of Automatic Fingerprint Recognition Systems (AFRS) makes them suitable for a wide range of applications. This spreading use of AFRS also makes them vulnerable to various security threats. Presentation Attack (PA) or spoofing is one of the threats which is caused by presenting a spoof of a genuine fingerprint to the sensor of AFRS. Fingerprint Presentation Attack Detection (FPAD) is a countermeasure intended to protect AFRS against fake or spoof fingerprints created using various fabrication materials. In this paper, we have proposed a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based technique that uses a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to augment the dataset with spoof samples generated from the proposed Open Patch Generator (OPG). This OPG is capable of generating realistic fingerprint samples which have no resemblance to the existing spoof fingerprint samples generated with other materials. The augmented dataset is fed to the DenseNet classifier which helps in increasing the performance of the Presentation Attack Detection (PAD) module for the various real-world attacks possible with unknown spoof materials. Experimental evaluations of the proposed approach are carried out on the Liveness Detection (LivDet) 2015, 2017, and 2019 competition databases. An overall accuracy of 96.20\%, 94.97\%, and 92.90\% has been achieved on the LivDet 2015, 2017, and 2019 databases, respectively under the LivDet protocol scenarios. The performance of the proposed PAD model is also validated in the cross-material and cross-sensor attack paradigm which further exhibits its capability to be used under real-world attack scenarios. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** RDFC-GAN: RGB-Depth Fusion CycleGAN for Indoor Depth Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03584  
**Abstract:** The raw depth image captured by indoor depth sensors usually has an extensive range of missing depth values due to inherent limitations such as the inability to perceive transparent objects and the limited distance range. The incomplete depth map with missing values burdens many downstream vision tasks, and a rising number of depth completion methods have been proposed to alleviate this issue. While most existing methods can generate accurate dense depth maps from sparse and uniformly sampled depth maps, they are not suitable for complementing large contiguous regions of missing depth values, which is common and critical in images captured in indoor environments. To overcome these challenges, we design a novel two-branch end-to-end fusion network named RDFC-GAN, which takes a pair of RGB and incomplete depth images as input to predict a dense and completed depth map. The first branch employs an encoder-decoder structure, by adhering to the Manhattan world assumption and utilizing normal maps from RGB-D information as guidance, to regress the local dense depth values from the raw depth map. In the other branch, we propose an RGB-depth fusion CycleGAN to transfer the RGB image to the fine-grained textured depth map. We adopt adaptive fusion modules named W-AdaIN to propagate the features across the two branches, and we append a confidence fusion head to fuse the two outputs of the branches for the final depth map. Extensive experiments on NYU-Depth V2 and SUN RGB-D demonstrate that our proposed method clearly improves the depth completion performance, especially in a more realistic setting of indoor environments, with the help of our proposed pseudo depth maps in training. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Language acquisition: do children and language models follow similar  learning stages?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03586  
**Abstract:** During language acquisition, children follow a typical sequence of learning stages, whereby they first learn to categorize phonemes before they develop their lexicon and eventually master increasingly complex syntactic structures. However, the computational principles that lead to this learning trajectory remain largely unknown. To investigate this, we here compare the learning trajectories of deep language models to those of children. Specifically, we test whether, during its training, GPT-2 exhibits stages of language acquisition comparable to those observed in children aged between 18 months and 6 years. For this, we train 48 GPT-2 models from scratch and evaluate their syntactic and semantic abilities at each training step, using 96 probes curated from the BLiMP, Zorro and BIG-Bench benchmarks. We then compare these evaluations with the behavior of 54 children during language production. Our analyses reveal three main findings. First, similarly to children, the language models tend to learn linguistic skills in a systematic order. Second, this learning scheme is parallel: the language tasks that are learned last improve from the very first training steps. Third, some - but not all - learning stages are shared between children and these language models. Overall, these results shed new light on the principles of language acquisition, and highlight important divergences in how humans and modern algorithms learn to process natural language. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Human-Object Interaction Prediction in Videos through Gaze Following  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03597  
**Abstract:** Understanding the human-object interactions (HOIs) from a video is essential to fully comprehend a visual scene. This line of research has been addressed by detecting HOIs from images and lately from videos. However, the video-based HOI anticipation task in the third-person view remains understudied. In this paper, we design a framework to detect current HOIs and anticipate future HOIs in videos. We propose to leverage human gaze information since people often fixate on an object before interacting with it. These gaze features together with the scene contexts and the visual appearances of human-object pairs are fused through a spatio-temporal transformer. To evaluate the model in the HOI anticipation task in a multi-person scenario, we propose a set of person-wise multi-label metrics. Our model is trained and validated on the VidHOI dataset, which contains videos capturing daily life and is currently the largest video HOI dataset. Experimental results in the HOI detection task show that our approach improves the baseline by a great margin of 36.3% relatively. Moreover, we conduct an extensive ablation study to demonstrate the effectiveness of our modifications and extensions to the spatio-temporal transformer. Our code is publicly available on https://github.com/nizhf/hoi-prediction-gaze-transformer. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Zero-shot Preference Learning for Offline RL via Optimal Transport  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03615  
**Abstract:** Preference-based Reinforcement Learning (PbRL) has demonstrated remarkable efficacy in aligning rewards with human intentions. However, a significant challenge lies in the need of substantial human labels, which is costly and time-consuming. Additionally, the expensive preference data obtained from prior tasks is not typically reusable for subsequent task learning, leading to extensive labeling for each new task. In this paper, we propose a novel zero-shot preference-based RL algorithm that leverages labeled preference data from source tasks to infer labels for target tasks, eliminating the requirement for human queries. Our approach utilizes Gromov-Wasserstein distance to align trajectory distributions between source and target tasks. The solved optimal transport matrix serves as a correspondence between trajectories of two tasks, making it possible to identify corresponding trajectory pairs between tasks and transfer the preference labels. However, learning directly from inferred labels that contains a fraction of noisy labels will result in an inaccurate reward function, subsequently affecting policy performance. To this end, we introduce Robust Preference Transformer, which models the rewards as Gaussian distributions and incorporates reward uncertainty in addition to reward mean. The empirical results on robotic manipulation tasks of Meta-World and Robomimic show that our method has strong capabilities of transferring preferences between tasks and learns reward functions from noisy labels robustly. Furthermore, we reveal that our method attains near-oracle performance with a small proportion of scripted labels. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** On the Difference of BERT-style and CLIP-style Text Encoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03678  
**Abstract:** Masked language modeling (MLM) has been one of the most popular pretraining recipes in natural language processing, e.g., BERT, one of the representative models. Recently, contrastive language-image pretraining (CLIP) has also attracted attention, especially its vision models that achieve excellent performance on a broad range of vision tasks. However, few studies are dedicated to studying the text encoders learned by CLIP. In this paper, we analyze the difference between BERT-style and CLIP-style text encoders from three experiments: (i) general text understanding, (ii) vision-centric text understanding, and (iii) text-to-image generation. Experimental analyses show that although CLIP-style text encoders underperform BERT-style ones for general text understanding tasks, they are equipped with a unique ability, i.e., synesthesia, for the cross-modal association, which is more similar to the senses of humans. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Human-imperceptible, Machine-recognizable Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03679  
**Abstract:** Massive human-related data is collected to train neural networks for computer vision tasks. A major conflict is exposed relating to software engineers between better developing AI systems and distancing from the sensitive training data. To reconcile this conflict, this paper proposes an efficient privacy-preserving learning paradigm, where images are first encrypted to become ``human-imperceptible, machine-recognizable'' via one of the two encryption strategies: (1) random shuffling to a set of equally-sized patches and (2) mixing-up sub-patches of the images. Then, minimal adaptations are made to vision transformer to enable it to learn on the encrypted images for vision tasks, including image classification and object detection. Extensive experiments on ImageNet and COCO show that the proposed paradigm achieves comparable accuracy with the competitive methods. Decrypting the encrypted images requires solving an NP-hard jigsaw puzzle or an ill-posed inverse problem, which is empirically shown intractable to be recovered by various attackers, including the powerful vision transformer-based attacker. We thus show that the proposed paradigm can ensure the encrypted images have become human-imperceptible while preserving machine-recognizable information. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/FushengHao/PrivacyPreservingML.} 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Towards Visual Foundational Models of Physical Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03727  
**Abstract:** We describe a first step towards learning general-purpose visual representations of physical scenes using only image prediction as a training criterion. To do so, we first define "physical scene" and show that, even though different agents may maintain different representations of the same scene, the underlying physical scene that can be inferred is unique. Then, we show that NeRFs cannot represent the physical scene, as they lack extrapolation mechanisms. Those, however, could be provided by Diffusion Models, at least in theory. To test this hypothesis empirically, NeRFs can be combined with Diffusion Models, a process we refer to as NeRF Diffusion, used as unsupervised representations of the physical scene. Our analysis is limited to visual data, without external grounding mechanisms that can be provided by independent sensory modalities. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Newly Formed Cities: an AI Curation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03753  
**Abstract:** Art curatorial processes are characterized by the presentation of a collection of artworks in a knowledgeable way. Machine processes are characterized by their capacity to manage and analyze large amounts of data. This paper envisages machine curation and audience interaction as a means to explore the implications of contemporary AI models for the curatorial world. This project was developed for the occasion of the 2023 Helsinki Art Biennial, entitled New Directions May Emerge. We use the Helsinki Art Museum (HAM) collection to re-imagine the city of Helsinki through the lens of machine perception. We use visual-textual models to place artworks currently hosted inside the museum in outdoor public spaces of the city, assigning fictional coordinates based on similarity scores. Synthetic 360{\deg} art panoramas are generated using diffusion-based models to propose a machinic visual style guided by the artworks. The result of this project will be virtually presented as a web-based installation, where such a re-contextualization allows the navigation of an alternative version of the city while exploring its artistic heritage. Finally, we discuss our contributions to machine curation and the ethical implications that such a process entails. The web-based installation is available at this link: 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** The Emergence of Essential Sparsity in Large Pre-trained Models: The  Weights that Matter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03805  
**Abstract:** Large pre-trained transformers are show-stealer in modern-day deep learning, and it becomes crucial to comprehend the parsimonious patterns that exist within them as they grow in scale. With exploding parameter counts, Lottery Ticket Hypothesis (LTH) and its variants, have lost their pragmatism in sparsifying them due to high computation and memory bottleneck of the repetitive train-prune-retrain routine of iterative magnitude pruning (IMP) which worsens with increasing model size. In this paper, we comprehensively study induced sparse patterns across multiple large pre-trained vision and language transformers. We propose the existence of -- essential sparsity defined with a sharp dropping point beyond which the performance declines much faster w.r.t the rise of sparsity level, when we directly remove weights with the smallest magnitudes in one-shot. In the sparsity-performance curve We also present an intriguing emerging phenomenon of abrupt sparsification during the pre-training of BERT, i.e., BERT suddenly becomes heavily sparse in pre-training after certain iterations. Moreover, our observations also indicate a counter-intuitive finding that BERT trained with a larger amount of pre-training data tends to have a better ability to condense knowledge in comparatively relatively fewer parameters. Lastly, we investigate the effect of the pre-training loss on essential sparsity and discover that self-supervised learning (SSL) objectives trigger stronger emergent sparsification properties than supervised learning (SL). Our codes are available at \url{https://github.com/VITA-Group/essential\_sparsity}. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** LEACE: Perfect linear concept erasure in closed form  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03819  
**Abstract:** Concept erasure aims to remove specified features from a representation. It can be used to improve fairness (e.g. preventing a classifier from using gender or race) and interpretability (e.g. removing a concept to observe changes in model behavior). In this paper, we introduce LEAst-squares Concept Erasure (LEACE), a closed-form method which provably prevents all linear classifiers from detecting a concept while inflicting the least possible damage to the representation. We apply LEACE to large language models with a novel procedure called "concept scrubbing," which erases target concept information from every layer in the network. We demonstrate the usefulness of our method on two tasks: measuring the reliance of language models on part-of-speech information, and reducing gender bias in BERT embeddings. Code is available at https://github.com/EleutherAI/concept-erasure. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Transformative Effects of ChatGPT on Modern Education: Emerging Era of  AI Chatbots  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03823  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT, an AI-based chatbot, was released to provide coherent and useful replies based on analysis of large volumes of data. In this article, leading scientists, researchers and engineers discuss the transformative effects of ChatGPT on modern education. This research seeks to improve our knowledge of ChatGPT capabilities and its use in the education sector, identifying potential concerns and challenges. Our preliminary evaluation concludes that ChatGPT performed differently in each subject area including finance, coding and maths. While ChatGPT has the ability to help educators by creating instructional content, offering suggestions and acting as an online educator to learners by answering questions and promoting group work, there are clear drawbacks in its use, such as the possibility of producing inaccurate or false data and circumventing duplicate content (plagiarism) detectors where originality is essential. The often reported hallucinations within Generative AI in general, and also relevant for ChatGPT, can render its use of limited benefit where accuracy is essential. What ChatGPT lacks is a stochastic measure to help provide sincere and sensitive communication with its users. Academic regulations and evaluation practices used in educational institutions need to be updated, should ChatGPT be used as a tool in education. To address the transformative effects of ChatGPT on the learning environment, educating teachers and students alike about its capabilities and limitations will be crucial. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Iterative Translation Refinement with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03856  
**Abstract:** Large language models have shown surprising performances in understanding instructions and performing natural language tasks. In this paper, we propose iterative translation refinement to leverage the power of large language models for more natural translation and post-editing. We show that by simply involving a large language model in an iterative process, the output quality improves beyond mere translation. Extensive test scenarios with GPT-3.5 reveal that although iterations reduce string-based metric scores, neural metrics indicate comparable if not improved translation quality. Further, human evaluations demonstrate that our method effectively reduces translationese compared to initial GPT translations and even human references, especially for into-English directions. Ablation studies underscore the importance of anchoring the refinement process to the source input and a reasonable initial translation. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Deductive Verification of Chain-of-Thought Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03872  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) significantly benefit from Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting in performing various reasoning tasks. While CoT allows models to produce more comprehensive reasoning processes, its emphasis on intermediate reasoning steps can inadvertently introduce hallucinations and accumulated errors, thereby limiting models' ability to solve complex reasoning tasks. Inspired by how humans engage in careful and meticulous deductive logical reasoning processes to solve tasks, we seek to enable language models to perform explicit and rigorous deductive reasoning, and also ensure the trustworthiness of their reasoning process through self-verification. However, directly verifying the validity of an entire deductive reasoning process is challenging, even with advanced models like ChatGPT. In light of this, we propose to decompose a reasoning verification process into a series of step-by-step subprocesses, each only receiving their necessary context and premises. To facilitate this procedure, we propose Natural Program, a natural language-based deductive reasoning format. Our approach enables models to generate precise reasoning steps where subsequent steps are more rigorously grounded on prior steps. It also empowers language models to carry out reasoning self-verification in a step-by-step manner. By integrating this verification process into each deductive reasoning stage, we significantly enhance the rigor and trustfulness of generated reasoning steps. Along this process, we also improve the answer correctness on complex reasoning tasks. Code will be released at https://github.com/lz1oceani/verify_cot. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Conditional Diffusion Models for Weakly Supervised Medical Image  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03878  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in denoising diffusion probabilistic models have shown great success in image synthesis tasks. While there are already works exploring the potential of this powerful tool in image semantic segmentation, its application in weakly supervised semantic segmentation (WSSS) remains relatively under-explored. Observing that conditional diffusion models (CDM) is capable of generating images subject to specific distributions, in this work, we utilize category-aware semantic information underlied in CDM to get the prediction mask of the target object with only image-level annotations. More specifically, we locate the desired class by approximating the derivative of the output of CDM w.r.t the input condition. Our method is different from previous diffusion model methods with guidance from an external classifier, which accumulates noises in the background during the reconstruction process. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art CAM and diffusion model methods on two public medical image segmentation datasets, which demonstrates that CDM is a promising tool in WSSS. Also, experiment shows our method is more time-efficient than existing diffusion model methods, making it practical for wider applications. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Emergent Correspondence from Image Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03881  
**Abstract:** Finding correspondences between images is a fundamental problem in computer vision. In this paper, we show that correspondence emerges in image diffusion models without any explicit supervision. We propose a simple strategy to extract this implicit knowledge out of diffusion networks as image features, namely DIffusion FeaTures (DIFT), and use them to establish correspondences between real images. Without any additional fine-tuning or supervision on the task-specific data or annotations, DIFT is able to outperform both weakly-supervised methods and competitive off-the-shelf features in identifying semantic, geometric, and temporal correspondences. Particularly for semantic correspondence, DIFT from Stable Diffusion is able to outperform DINO and OpenCLIP by 19 and 14 accuracy points respectively on the challenging SPair-71k benchmark. It even outperforms the state-of-the-art supervised methods on 9 out of 18 categories while remaining on par for the overall performance. Project page: https://diffusionfeatures.github.io 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Causal interventions expose implicit situation models for commonsense  language understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03882  
**Abstract:** Accounts of human language processing have long appealed to implicit ``situation models'' that enrich comprehension with relevant but unstated world knowledge. Here, we apply causal intervention techniques to recent transformer models to analyze performance on the Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC), where a single context cue shifts interpretation of an ambiguous pronoun. We identify a relatively small circuit of attention heads that are responsible for propagating information from the context word that guides which of the candidate noun phrases the pronoun ultimately attends to. We then compare how this circuit behaves in a closely matched ``syntactic'' control where the situation model is not strictly necessary. These analyses suggest distinct pathways through which implicit situation models are constructed to guide pronoun resolution. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Towards Label-free Scene Understanding by Vision Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03899  
**Abstract:** Vision foundation models such as Contrastive Vision-Language Pre-training (CLIP) and Segment Anything (SAM) have demonstrated impressive zero-shot performance on image classification and segmentation tasks. However, the incorporation of CLIP and SAM for label-free scene understanding has yet to be explored. In this paper, we investigate the potential of vision foundation models in enabling networks to comprehend 2D and 3D worlds without labelled data. The primary challenge lies in effectively supervising networks under extremely noisy pseudo labels, which are generated by CLIP and further exacerbated during the propagation from the 2D to the 3D domain. To tackle these challenges, we propose a novel Cross-modality Noisy Supervision (CNS) method that leverages the strengths of CLIP and SAM to supervise 2D and 3D networks simultaneously. In particular, we introduce a prediction consistency regularization to co-train 2D and 3D networks, then further impose the networks' latent space consistency using the SAM's robust feature representation. Experiments conducted on diverse indoor and outdoor datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our method in understanding 2D and 3D open environments. Our 2D and 3D network achieves label-free semantic segmentation with 28.4% and 33.5% mIoU on ScanNet, improving 4.7% and 7.9%, respectively. And for nuScenes dataset, our performance is 26.8% with an improvement of 6%. Code will be released (https://github.com/runnanchen/Label-Free-Scene-Understanding). 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** CrystalGPT: Enhancing system-to-system transferability in  crystallization prediction and control using time-series-transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03099  
**Abstract:** For prediction and real-time control tasks, machine-learning (ML)-based digital twins are frequently employed. However, while these models are typically accurate, they are custom-designed for individual systems, making system-to-system (S2S) transferability difficult. This occurs even when substantial similarities exist in the process dynamics across different chemical systems. To address this challenge, we developed a novel time-series-transformer (TST) framework that exploits the powerful transfer learning capabilities inherent in transformer algorithms. This was demonstrated using readily available process data obtained from different crystallizers operating under various operational scenarios. Using this extensive dataset, we trained a TST model (CrystalGPT) to exhibit remarkable S2S transferability not only across all pre-established systems, but also to an unencountered system. CrystalGPT achieved a cumulative error across all systems, which is eight times superior to that of existing ML models. Additionally, we coupled CrystalGPT with a predictive controller to reduce the variance in setpoint tracking to just 1%. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** LipVoicer: Generating Speech from Silent Videos Guided by Lip Reading  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03258  
**Abstract:** Lip-to-speech involves generating a natural-sounding speech synchronized with a soundless video of a person talking. Despite recent advances, current methods still cannot produce high-quality speech with high levels of intelligibility for challenging and realistic datasets such as LRS3. In this work, we present LipVoicer, a novel method that generates high-quality speech, even for in-the-wild and rich datasets, by incorporating the text modality. Given a silent video, we first predict the spoken text using a pre-trained lip-reading network. We then condition a diffusion model on the video and use the extracted text through a classifier-guidance mechanism where a pre-trained ASR serves as the classifier. LipVoicer outperforms multiple lip-to-speech baselines on LRS2 and LRS3, which are in-the-wild datasets with hundreds of unique speakers in their test set and an unrestricted vocabulary. Moreover, our experiments show that the inclusion of the text modality plays a major role in the intelligibility of the produced speech, readily perceptible while listening, and is empirically reflected in the substantial reduction of the WER metric. We demonstrate the effectiveness of LipVoicer through human evaluation, which shows that it produces more natural and synchronized speech signals compared to competing methods. Finally, we created a demo showcasing LipVoicer's superiority in producing natural, synchronized, and intelligible speech, providing additional evidence of its effectiveness. Project page: https://lipvoicer.github.io 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** CiT-Net: Convolutional Neural Networks Hand in Hand with Vision  Transformers for Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03373  
**Abstract:** The hybrid architecture of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and Transformer are very popular for medical image segmentation. However, it suffers from two challenges. First, although a CNNs branch can capture the local image features using vanilla convolution, it cannot achieve adaptive feature learning. Second, although a Transformer branch can capture the global features, it ignores the channel and cross-dimensional self-attention, resulting in a low segmentation accuracy on complex-content images. To address these challenges, we propose a novel hybrid architecture of convolutional neural networks hand in hand with vision Transformers (CiT-Net) for medical image segmentation. Our network has two advantages. First, we design a dynamic deformable convolution and apply it to the CNNs branch, which overcomes the weak feature extraction ability due to fixed-size convolution kernels and the stiff design of sharing kernel parameters among different inputs. Second, we design a shifted-window adaptive complementary attention module and a compact convolutional projection. We apply them to the Transformer branch to learn the cross-dimensional long-term dependency for medical images. Experimental results show that our CiT-Net provides better medical image segmentation results than popular SOTA methods. Besides, our CiT-Net requires lower parameters and less computational costs and does not rely on pre-training. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/SR0920/CiT-Net. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Clinical-Inspired Cytological Whole Slide Image Screening with Just  Slide-Level Labels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03407  
**Abstract:** Cytology test is effective, non-invasive, convenient, and inexpensive for clinical cancer screening. ThinPrep, a commonly used liquid-based specimen, can be scanned to generate digital whole slide images (WSIs) for cytology testing. However, WSIs classification with gigapixel resolutions is highly resource-intensive, posing significant challenges for automated medical image analysis. In order to circumvent this computational impasse, existing methods emphasize learning features at the cell or patch level, typically requiring labor-intensive and detailed manual annotations, such as labels at the cell or patch level. Here we propose a novel automated Label-Efficient WSI Screening method, dubbed LESS, for cytology-based diagnosis with only slide-level labels. Firstly, in order to achieve label efficiency, we suggest employing variational positive-unlabeled (VPU) learning, enhancing patch-level feature learning using WSI-level labels. Subsequently, guided by the clinical approach of scrutinizing WSIs at varying fields of view and scales, we employ a cross-attention vision transformer (CrossViT) to fuse multi-scale patch-level data and execute WSI-level classification. We validate the proposed label-efficient method on a urine cytology WSI dataset encompassing 130 samples (13,000 patches) and FNAC 2019 dataset with 212 samples (21,200 patches). The experiment shows that the proposed LESS reaches 84.79%, 85.43%, 91.79% and 78.30% on a urine cytology WSI dataset, and 96.53%, 96.37%, 99.31%, 94.95% on FNAC 2019 dataset in terms of accuracy, AUC, sensitivity and specificity. It outperforms state-of-the-art methods and realizes automatic cytology-based bladder cancer screening. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Mega-TTS: Zero-Shot Text-to-Speech at Scale with Intrinsic Inductive  Bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03509  
**Abstract:** Scaling text-to-speech to a large and wild dataset has been proven to be highly effective in achieving timbre and speech style generalization, particularly in zero-shot TTS. However, previous works usually encode speech into latent using audio codec and use autoregressive language models or diffusion models to generate it, which ignores the intrinsic nature of speech and may lead to inferior or uncontrollable results. We argue that speech can be decomposed into several attributes (e.g., content, timbre, prosody, and phase) and each of them should be modeled using a module with appropriate inductive biases. From this perspective, we carefully design a novel and large zero-shot TTS system called Mega-TTS, which is trained with large-scale wild data and models different attributes in different ways: 1) Instead of using latent encoded by audio codec as the intermediate feature, we still choose spectrogram as it separates the phase and other attributes very well. Phase can be appropriately constructed by the GAN-based vocoder and does not need to be modeled by the language model. 2) We model the timbre using global vectors since timbre is a global attribute that changes slowly over time. 3) We further use a VQGAN-based acoustic model to generate the spectrogram and a latent code language model to fit the distribution of prosody, since prosody changes quickly over time in a sentence, and language models can capture both local and long-range dependencies. We scale Mega-TTS to multi-domain datasets with 20K hours of speech and evaluate its performance on unseen speakers. Experimental results demonstrate that Mega-TTS surpasses state-of-the-art TTS systems on zero-shot TTS, speech editing, and cross-lingual TTS tasks, with superior naturalness, robustness, and speaker similarity due to the proper inductive bias of each module. Audio samples are available at https://mega-tts.github.io/demo-page. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** ChatGPT Informed Graph Neural Network for Stock Movement Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03763  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT has demonstrated remarkable capabilities across various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, its potential for inferring dynamic network structures from temporal textual data, specifically financial news, remains an unexplored frontier. In this research, we introduce a novel framework that leverages ChatGPT's graph inference capabilities to enhance Graph Neural Networks (GNN). Our framework adeptly extracts evolving network structures from textual data, and incorporates these networks into graph neural networks for subsequent predictive tasks. The experimental results from stock movement forecasting indicate our model has consistently outperformed the state-of-the-art Deep Learning-based benchmarks. Furthermore, the portfolios constructed based on our model's outputs demonstrate higher annualized cumulative returns, alongside reduced volatility and maximum drawdown. This superior performance highlights the potential of ChatGPT for text-based network inferences and underscores its promising implications for the financial sector. 

