**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Q: How to Specialize Large Vision-Language Models to Data-Scarce VQA  Tasks? A: Self-Train on Unlabeled Images!  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03932  
**Abstract:** Finetuning a large vision language model (VLM) on a target dataset after large scale pretraining is a dominant paradigm in visual question answering (VQA). Datasets for specialized tasks such as knowledge-based VQA or VQA in non natural-image domains are orders of magnitude smaller than those for general-purpose VQA. While collecting additional labels for specialized tasks or domains can be challenging, unlabeled images are often available. We introduce SelTDA (Self-Taught Data Augmentation), a strategy for finetuning large VLMs on small-scale VQA datasets. SelTDA uses the VLM and target dataset to build a teacher model that can generate question-answer pseudolabels directly conditioned on an image alone, allowing us to pseudolabel unlabeled images. SelTDA then finetunes the initial VLM on the original dataset augmented with freshly pseudolabeled images. We describe a series of experiments showing that our self-taught data augmentation increases robustness to adversarially searched questions, counterfactual examples and rephrasings, improves domain generalization, and results in greater retention of numerical reasoning skills. The proposed strategy requires no additional annotations or architectural modifications, and is compatible with any modern encoder-decoder multimodal transformer. Code available at https://github.com/codezakh/SelTDA. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Sentiment Analysis in Finance: From Transformers Back to eXplainable  Lexicons (XLex)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03997  
**Abstract:** Lexicon-based sentiment analysis (SA) in finance leverages specialized, manually annotated lexicons created by human experts to extract sentiment from financial texts. Although lexicon-based methods are simple to implement and fast to operate on textual data, they require considerable manual annotation efforts to create, maintain, and update the lexicons. These methods are also considered inferior to the deep learning-based approaches, such as transformer models, which have become dominant in various NLP tasks due to their remarkable performance. However, transformers require extensive data and computational resources for both training and testing. Additionally, they involve significant prediction times, making them unsuitable for real-time production environments or systems with limited processing capabilities. In this paper, we introduce a novel methodology named eXplainable Lexicons (XLex) that combines the advantages of both lexicon-based methods and transformer models. We propose an approach that utilizes transformers and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) for explainability to learn financial lexicons. Our study presents four main contributions. Firstly, we demonstrate that transformer-aided explainable lexicons can enhance the vocabulary coverage of the benchmark Loughran-McDonald (LM) lexicon, reducing the human involvement in annotating, maintaining, and updating the lexicons. Secondly, we show that the resulting lexicon outperforms the standard LM lexicon in SA of financial datasets. Thirdly, we illustrate that the lexicon-based approach is significantly more efficient in terms of model speed and size compared to transformers. Lastly, the XLex approach is inherently more interpretable than transformer models as lexicon models rely on predefined rules, allowing for better insights into the results of SA and making the XLex approach a viable tool for financial decision-making. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Randomized Schur Complement Views for Graph Contrastive Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04004  
**Abstract:** We introduce a randomized topological augmentor based on Schur complements for Graph Contrastive Learning (GCL). Given a graph laplacian matrix, the technique generates unbiased approximations of its Schur complements and treats the corresponding graphs as augmented views. We discuss the benefits of our approach, provide theoretical justifications and present connections with graph diffusion. Unlike previous efforts, we study the empirical effectiveness of the augmentor in a controlled fashion by varying the design choices for subsequent GCL phases, such as encoding and contrasting. Extensive experiments on node and graph classification benchmarks demonstrate that our technique consistently outperforms pre-defined and adaptive augmentation approaches to achieve state-of-the-art results. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Certified Reasoning with Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04031  
**Abstract:** Language models often achieve higher accuracy when reasoning step-by-step in complex tasks. However, their reasoning can be unsound, inconsistent, or rely on undesirable prior assumptions. To tackle these issues, we introduce a class of tools for language models called guides that use state and incremental constraints to guide generation. A guide can be invoked by the model to constrain its own generation to a set of valid statements given by the tool. In turn, the model's choices can change the guide's state. We show how a general system for logical reasoning can be used as a guide, which we call LogicGuide. Given a reasoning problem in natural language, a model can formalize its assumptions for LogicGuide and then guarantee that its reasoning steps are sound. In experiments with the PrOntoQA and ProofWriter reasoning datasets, LogicGuide significantly improves the performance of GPT-3, GPT-3.5 Turbo and LLaMA (accuracy gains up to 35%). LogicGuide also drastically reduces content effects: the interference of prior and current assumptions that both humans and language models have been shown to suffer from. Finally, we explore bootstrapping LLaMA 13B from its own reasoning and find that LogicGuide is critical: by training only on certified self-generated reasoning, LLaMA can self-improve, avoiding learning from its own hallucinations. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** BokehOrNot: Transforming Bokeh Effect with Image Transformer and Lens  Metadata Embedding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04032  
**Abstract:** Bokeh effect is an optical phenomenon that offers a pleasant visual experience, typically generated by high-end cameras with wide aperture lenses. The task of bokeh effect transformation aims to produce a desired effect in one set of lenses and apertures based on another combination. Current models are limited in their ability to render a specific set of bokeh effects, primarily transformations from sharp to blur. In this paper, we propose a novel universal method for embedding lens metadata into the model and introducing a loss calculation method using alpha masks from the newly released Bokeh Effect Transformation Dataset(BETD) [3]. Based on the above techniques, we propose the BokehOrNot model, which is capable of producing both blur-to-sharp and sharp-to-blur bokeh effect with various combinations of lenses and aperture sizes. Our proposed model outperforms current leading bokeh rendering and image restoration models and renders visually natural bokeh effects. Our code is available at: https://github.com/indicator0/bokehornot. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Augmenting Reddit Posts to Determine Wellness Dimensions impacting  Mental Health  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04059  
**Abstract:** Amid ongoing health crisis, there is a growing necessity to discern possible signs of Wellness Dimensions (WD) manifested in self-narrated text. As the distribution of WD on social media data is intrinsically imbalanced, we experiment the generative NLP models for data augmentation to enable further improvement in the pre-screening task of classifying WD. To this end, we propose a simple yet effective data augmentation approach through prompt-based Generative NLP models, and evaluate the ROUGE scores and syntactic/semantic similarity among existing interpretations and augmented data. Our approach with ChatGPT model surpasses all the other methods and achieves improvement over baselines such as Easy-Data Augmentation and Backtranslation. Introducing data augmentation to generate more training samples and balanced dataset, results in the improved F-score and the Matthew's Correlation Coefficient for upto 13.11% and 15.95%, respectively. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** An Empirical Analysis of Parameter-Efficient Methods for Debiasing  Pre-Trained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04067  
**Abstract:** The increasingly large size of modern pretrained language models not only makes them inherit more human-like biases from the training corpora, but also makes it computationally expensive to mitigate such biases. In this paper, we investigate recent parameter-efficient methods in combination with counterfactual data augmentation (CDA) for bias mitigation. We conduct extensive experiments with prefix tuning, prompt tuning, and adapter tuning on different language models and bias types to evaluate their debiasing performance and abilities to preserve the internal knowledge of a pre-trained model. We find that the parameter-efficient methods (i) are effective in mitigating gender bias, where adapter tuning is consistently the most effective one and prompt tuning is more suitable for GPT-2 than BERT, (ii) are less effective when it comes to racial and religious bias, which may be attributed to the limitations of CDA, and (iii) can perform similarly to or sometimes better than full fine-tuning with improved time and memory efficiency, as well as maintain the internal knowledge in BERT and GPT-2, evaluated via fact retrieval and downstream fine-tuning. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Professional Basketball Player Behavior Synthesis via Planning with  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04090  
**Abstract:** Dynamically planning in multi-agent systems has been explored to improve decision-making in various domains. Professional basketball serves as a compelling example of a dynamic spatio-temporal game, encompassing both concealed strategic policies and decision-making. However, processing the diverse on-court signals and navigating the vast space of potential actions and outcomes makes it difficult for existing approaches to swiftly identify optimal strategies in response to evolving circumstances. In this study, we first formulate the sequential decision-making process as a conditional trajectory generation process. We further introduce PLAYBEST (PLAYer BEhavior SynThesis), a method for enhancing player decision-making. We extend the state-of-the-art generative model, diffusion probabilistic model, to learn challenging multi-agent environmental dynamics from historical National Basketball Association (NBA) player motion tracking data. To incorporate data-driven strategies, an auxiliary value function is trained using the play-by-play data with corresponding rewards acting as the plan guidance. To accomplish reward-guided trajectory generation, conditional sampling is introduced to condition the diffusion model on the value function and conduct classifier-guided sampling. We validate the effectiveness of PLAYBEST via comprehensive simulation studies from real-world data, contrasting the generated trajectories and play strategies with those employed by professional basketball teams. Our results reveal that the model excels at generating high-quality basketball trajectories that yield efficient plays, surpassing conventional planning techniques in terms of adaptability, flexibility, and overall performance. Moreover, the synthesized play strategies exhibit a remarkable alignment with professional tactics, highlighting the model's capacity to capture the intricate dynamics of basketball games. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Phoenix: A Federated Generative Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04098  
**Abstract:** Generative AI has made impressive strides in enabling users to create diverse and realistic visual content such as images, videos, and audio. However, training generative models on large centralized datasets can pose challenges in terms of data privacy, security, and accessibility. Federated learning (FL) is an approach that uses decentralized techniques to collaboratively train a shared deep learning model while retaining the training data on individual edge devices to preserve data privacy. This paper proposes a novel method for training a Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model (DDPM) across multiple data sources using FL techniques. Diffusion models, a newly emerging generative model, show promising results in achieving superior quality images than Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Our proposed method Phoenix is an unconditional diffusion model that leverages strategies to improve the data diversity of generated samples even when trained on data with statistical heterogeneity or Non-IID (Non-Independent and Identically Distributed) data. We demonstrate how our approach outperforms the default diffusion model in an FL setting. These results indicate that high-quality samples can be generated by maintaining data diversity, preserving privacy, and reducing communication between data sources, offering exciting new possibilities in the field of generative AI. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** MESSY Estimation: Maximum-Entropy based Stochastic and Symbolic densitY  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04120  
**Abstract:** We introduce MESSY estimation, a Maximum-Entropy based Stochastic and Symbolic densitY estimation method. The proposed approach recovers probability density functions symbolically from samples using moments of a Gradient flow in which the ansatz serves as the driving force. In particular, we construct a gradient-based drift-diffusion process that connects samples of the unknown distribution function to a guess symbolic expression. We then show that when the guess distribution has the maximum entropy form, the parameters of this distribution can be found efficiently by solving a linear system of equations constructed using the moments of the provided samples. Furthermore, we use Symbolic regression to explore the space of smooth functions and find optimal basis functions for the exponent of the maximum entropy functional leading to good conditioning. The cost of the proposed method in each iteration of the random search is linear with the number of samples and quadratic with the number of basis functions. We validate the proposed MESSY estimation method against other benchmark methods for the case of a bi-modal and a discontinuous density, as well as a density at the limit of physical realizability. We find that the addition of a symbolic search for basis functions improves the accuracy of the estimation at a reasonable additional computational cost. Our results suggest that the proposed method outperforms existing density recovery methods in the limit of a small to moderate number of samples by providing a low-bias and tractable symbolic description of the unknown density at a reasonable computational cost. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** A Survey on Generative Diffusion Models for Structured Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04139  
**Abstract:** In recent years, generative diffusion models have achieved a rapid paradigm shift in deep generative models by showing groundbreaking performance across various applications. Meanwhile, structured data, encompassing tabular and time series data, has been received comparatively limited attention from the deep learning research community, despite its omnipresence and extensive applications. Thus, there is still a lack of literature and its review on structured data modelling via diffusion models, compared to other data modalities such as computer vision and natural language processing. Hence, in this paper, we present a comprehensive review of recently proposed diffusion models in the field of structured data. First, this survey provides a concise overview of the score-based diffusion model theory, subsequently proceeding to the technical descriptions of the majority of pioneering works using structured data in both data-driven general tasks and domain-specific applications. Thereafter, we analyse and discuss the limitations and challenges shown in existing works and suggest potential research directions. We hope this review serves as a catalyst for the research community, promoting the developments in generative diffusion models for structured data. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Bidirectional GaitNet: A Bidirectional Prediction Model of Human Gait  and Anatomical Conditions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04161  
**Abstract:** We present a novel generative model, called Bidirectional GaitNet, that learns the relationship between human anatomy and its gait. The simulation model of human anatomy is a comprehensive, full-body, simulation-ready, musculoskeletal model with 304 Hill-type musculotendon units. The Bidirectional GaitNet consists of forward and backward models. The forward model predicts a gait pattern of a person with specific physical conditions, while the backward model estimates the physical conditions of a person when his/her gait pattern is provided. Our simulation-based approach first learns the forward model by distilling the simulation data generated by a state-of-the-art predictive gait simulator and then constructs a Variational Autoencoder (VAE) with the learned forward model as its decoder. Once it is learned its encoder serves as the backward model. We demonstrate our model on a variety of healthy/impaired gaits and validate it in comparison with physical examination data of real patients. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Video Compression with Arbitrary Rescaling Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04202  
**Abstract:** Most video platforms provide video streaming services with different qualities, and the quality of the services is usually adjusted by the resolution of the videos. So high-resolution videos need to be downsampled for compression. In order to solve the problem of video coding at different resolutions, we propose a rate-guided arbitrary rescaling network (RARN) for video resizing before encoding. To help the RARN be compatible with standard codecs and generate compression-friendly results, an iteratively optimized transformer-based virtual codec (TVC) is introduced to simulate the key components of video encoding and perform bitrate estimation. By iteratively training the TVC and the RARN, we achieved 5%-29% BD-Rate reduction anchored by linear interpolation under different encoding configurations and resolutions, exceeding the previous methods on most test videos. Furthermore, the lightweight RARN structure can process FHD (1080p) content at real-time speed (91 FPS) and obtain a considerable rate reduction. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Efficient Vision Transformer for Human Pose Estimation via Patch  Selection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04225  
**Abstract:** While Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have been widely successful in 2D human pose estimation, Vision Transformers (ViTs) have emerged as a promising alternative to CNNs, boosting state-of-the-art performance. However, the quadratic computational complexity of ViTs has limited their applicability for processing high-resolution images and long videos. To address this challenge, we propose a simple method for reducing ViT's computational complexity based on selecting and processing a small number of most informative patches while disregarding others. We leverage a lightweight pose estimation network to guide the patch selection process, ensuring that the selected patches contain the most important information. Our experimental results on three widely used 2D pose estimation benchmarks, namely COCO, MPII and OCHuman, demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methods in significantly improving speed and reducing computational complexity with a slight drop in performance. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Normalization Layers Are All That Sharpness-Aware Minimization Needs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04226  
**Abstract:** Sharpness-aware minimization (SAM) was proposed to reduce sharpness of minima and has been shown to enhance generalization performance in various settings. In this work we show that perturbing only the affine normalization parameters (comprising less than 0.1% of the total parameters) in the adversarial step of SAM outperforms perturbing all of the parameters. This finding generalizes to different SAM variants and both ResNet (Batch Normalization) and Vision Transformer (Layer Normalization) architectures. We consider alternative sparse perturbation approaches and find that these do not achieve similar performance enhancement at such extreme sparsity levels, showing that this behaviour is unique to the normalization layers. Although our findings reaffirm the effectiveness of SAM in improving generalization performance, they cast doubt on whether this is solely caused by reduced sharpness. The code for our experiments is publicly available at https://github.com/mueller-mp/SAM-ON. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Coarse Is Better? A New Pipeline Towards Self-Supervised Learning with  Uncurated Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04244  
**Abstract:** Most self-supervised learning (SSL) methods often work on curated datasets where the object-centric assumption holds. This assumption breaks down in uncurated scene images. Existing scene image SSL methods try to find the two views from original scene images that are well matched or dense, which is both complex and computationally heavy. This paper proposes a conceptually different pipeline: first find regions that are coarse objects (with adequate objectness), crop them out as pseudo object-centric images, then any SSL method can be directly applied as in a real object-centric dataset. That is, cropping benefits scene images SSL. A novel cropping strategy is proposed to find coarse object regions in scene images. The proposed pipeline and cropping strategy successfully learn high quality visual representation from uncurated scene datasets like MS-COCO, and the learning does not rely on external object-centric datasets such as ImageNet. Experiments show that our pipeline outperforms existing SSL methods on scene images, and is friendly for non-contrastive SSL methods like MAE. Ablations further verify that the proposed cropping strategy does not rely on pretrained SSL models, too. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** On the Generalization of Multi-modal Contrastive Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04272  
**Abstract:** Multi-modal contrastive learning (MMCL) has recently garnered considerable interest due to its superior performance in visual tasks, achieved by embedding multi-modal data, such as visual-language pairs. However, there still lack theoretical understandings of how MMCL extracts useful visual representation from multi-modal pairs, and particularly, how MMCL outperforms previous approaches like self-supervised contrastive learning (SSCL). In this paper, by drawing an intrinsic connection between MMCL and asymmetric matrix factorization, we establish the first generalization guarantees of MMCL for visual downstream tasks. Based on this framework, we further unify MMCL and SSCL by showing that MMCL implicitly performs SSCL with (pseudo) positive pairs induced by text pairs. Through this unified perspective, we characterize the advantage of MMCL by showing that text pairs induce more semantically consistent and diverse positive pairs, which, according to our analysis, provably benefit downstream generalization. Inspired by this finding, we propose CLIP-guided resampling methods to significantly improve the downstream performance of SSCL on ImageNet by leveraging multi-modal information. Code is available at https://github.com/PKU-ML/CLIP-Help-SimCLR. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Interpretable Style Transfer for Text-to-Speech with ControlVAE and  Diffusion Bridge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04301  
**Abstract:** With the demand for autonomous control and personalized speech generation, the style control and transfer in Text-to-Speech (TTS) is becoming more and more important. In this paper, we propose a new TTS system that can perform style transfer with interpretability and high fidelity. Firstly, we design a TTS system that combines variational autoencoder (VAE) and diffusion refiner to get refined mel-spectrograms. Specifically, a two-stage and a one-stage system are designed respectively, to improve the audio quality and the performance of style transfer. Secondly, a diffusion bridge of quantized VAE is designed to efficiently learn complex discrete style representations and improve the performance of style transfer. To have a better ability of style transfer, we introduce ControlVAE to improve the reconstruction quality and have good interpretability simultaneously. Experiments on LibriTTS dataset demonstrate that our method is more effective than baseline models. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Personality testing of GPT-3: Limited temporal reliability, but  highlighted social desirability of GPT-3's personality instruments results  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04308  
**Abstract:** To assess the potential applications and limitations of chatbot GPT-3 Davinci-003, this study explored the temporal reliability of personality questionnaires applied to the chatbot and its personality profile. Psychological questionnaires were administered to the chatbot on two separate occasions, followed by a comparison of the responses to human normative data. The findings revealed varying levels of agreement in the chatbot's responses over time, with some scales displaying excellent while others demonstrated poor agreement. Overall, Davinci-003 displayed a socially desirable and pro-social personality profile, particularly in the domain of communion. However, the underlying basis of the chatbot's responses, whether driven by conscious self-reflection or predetermined algorithms, remains uncertain. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Generative Semantic Communication: Diffusion Models Beyond Bit Recovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04321  
**Abstract:** Semantic communication is expected to be one of the cores of next-generation AI-based communications. One of the possibilities offered by semantic communication is the capability to regenerate, at the destination side, images or videos semantically equivalent to the transmitted ones, without necessarily recovering the transmitted sequence of bits. The current solutions still lack the ability to build complex scenes from the received partial information. Clearly, there is an unmet need to balance the effectiveness of generation methods and the complexity of the transmitted information, possibly taking into account the goal of communication. In this paper, we aim to bridge this gap by proposing a novel generative diffusion-guided framework for semantic communication that leverages the strong abilities of diffusion models in synthesizing multimedia content while preserving semantic features. We reduce bandwidth usage by sending highly-compressed semantic information only. Then, the diffusion model learns to synthesize semantic-consistent scenes through spatially-adaptive normalizations from such denoised semantic information. We prove, through an in-depth assessment of multiple scenarios, that our method outperforms existing solutions in generating high-quality images with preserved semantic information even in cases where the received content is significantly degraded. More specifically, our results show that objects, locations, and depths are still recognizable even in the presence of extremely noisy conditions of the communication channel. The code is available at https://github.com/ispamm/GESCO. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** GCT-TTE: Graph Convolutional Transformer for Travel Time Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04324  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a new transformer-based model for the problem of travel time estimation. The key feature of the proposed GCT-TTE architecture is the utilization of different data modalities capturing different properties of an input path. Along with the extensive study regarding the model configuration, we implemented and evaluated a sufficient number of actual baselines for path-aware and path-blind settings. The conducted computational experiments have confirmed the viability of our pipeline, which outperformed state-of-the-art models on both considered datasets. Additionally, GCT-TTE was deployed as a web service accessible for further experiments with user-defined routes. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Last Week with ChatGPT: A Weibo Study on Social Perspective regarding  ChatGPT for Education and Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04325  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT has piqued the interest of many fields, particularly in the academic community. GPT-4, the latest version, starts supporting multimodal input and output. This study examines social media posts to analyze how the Chinese public perceives the potential of ChatGPT for educational and general purposes. The study also serves as the first effort to investigate the changes in public opinion since the release of GPT-4. According to the analysis results, prior to GPT-4, although some social media users believed that AI advancements would benefit education and society, some believed that advanced AI, such as ChatGPT, would make humans feel inferior and lead to problems such as cheating and a decline in moral principles, while the majority remain neutral. Interestingly, public attitudes have tended to shift in a positive direction since the release of GPT-4. We present a thorough analysis of the trending shift and a roadmap to ensure the ethical application of ChatGPT-like models in education and beyond. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** GPT Self-Supervision for a Better Data Annotator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04349  
**Abstract:** The task of annotating data into concise summaries poses a significant challenge across various domains, frequently requiring the allocation of significant time and specialized knowledge by human experts. Despite existing efforts to use large language models for annotation tasks, significant problems such as limited applicability to unlabeled data, the absence of self-supervised methods, and the lack of focus on complex structured data still persist. In this work, we propose a GPT self-supervision annotation method. This method embodies a generating-recovering paradigm that leverages the capabilities of one-shot learning capabilities in Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT). The proposed approach comprises a one-shot tuning phase followed by a generation phase. In the one-shot tuning phase, we sample a data from the support set as part of the prompt for GPT to generate a textual summary, which is then used to recover the original data. The alignment score between the recovered and original data serves as a self-supervision navigator to refine the process. In the generation stage, the optimally selected one-shot sample serves as a template in the prompt and is applied to generating summaries from challenging datasets. The annotation performance is evaluated by tuning several human feedback reward networks and by calculating alignment scores between original and recovered data at both sentence and structure levels. Our self-supervised annotation method consistently achieves competitive scores, convincingly demonstrating its robust strength in various data-to-summary annotation tasks. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Fine-Grained Visual Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04356  
**Abstract:** Vision-Language Models (VLMs), such as CLIP, have demonstrated impressive zero-shot transfer capabilities in image-level visual perception. However, these models have shown limited performance in instance-level tasks that demand precise localization and recognition. Previous works have suggested that incorporating visual prompts, such as colorful boxes or circles, can improve the ability of models to recognize objects of interest. Nonetheless, compared to language prompting, visual prompting designs are rarely explored. Existing approaches, which employ coarse visual cues such as colorful boxes or circles, often result in sub-optimal performance due to the inclusion of irrelevant and noisy pixels. In this paper, we carefully study the visual prompting designs by exploring more fine-grained markings, such as segmentation masks and their variations. In addition, we introduce a new zero-shot framework that leverages pixel-level annotations acquired from a generalist segmentation model for fine-grained visual prompting. Consequently, our investigation reveals that a straightforward application of blur outside the target mask, referred to as the Blur Reverse Mask, exhibits exceptional effectiveness. This proposed prompting strategy leverages the precise mask annotations to reduce focus on weakly related regions while retaining spatial coherence between the target and the surrounding background. Our Fine-Grained Visual Prompting (FGVP) demonstrates superior performance in zero-shot comprehension of referring expressions on the RefCOCO, RefCOCO+, and RefCOCOg benchmarks. It outperforms prior methods by an average margin of 3.0% to 4.6%, with a maximum improvement of 12.5% on the RefCOCO+ testA subset. The part detection experiments conducted on the PACO dataset further validate the preponderance of FGVP over existing visual prompting techniques. Code and models will be made available. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** ConTextual Masked Auto-Encoder for Retrieval-based Dialogue Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04357  
**Abstract:** Dialogue response selection aims to select an appropriate response from several candidates based on a given user and system utterance history. Recent studies have been improving the accuracy of dialogue response selection through post-training, mostly relying on naive masked language modeling methods. However, the recently developed generative methods have shown promising text representation capabilities in IR community, which could potentially lead to better dialogue semantics modeling. Thus, in this paper, we propose Dial-MAE (Dialogue Contextual Masking Auto-encoder), a straightforward yet effective post-training technique tailored for dialogue response selection. Dial-MAE uses an asymmetric encoder-decoder architecture that learns to better compress the semantics of the dialogue into dialogue-dense vectors. The process of Dial-MAE involves a deep encoder creating a dialogue embedding with the masked dialogue context, followed by a shallow decoder that uses this embedding along with the highly masked response to restore the original response. Our experiments have demonstrated that Dial-MAE is highly effective, achieving state-of-the-art performance on two commonly evaluated benchmarks. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Large-Scale Cell Representation Learning via Divide-and-Conquer  Contrastive Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04371  
**Abstract:** Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data is a potent tool for comprehending the "language of life" and can provide insights into various downstream biomedical tasks. Large-scale language models (LLMs) are starting to be used for cell representation learning. However, current LLM-based cell representation learning methods depend solely on the BERT architecture, causing an anisotropic embedding space that leads to inefficient semantic representation. Contrastive learning alleviates this problem by distributing the embeddings uniformly. As a larger batch size in contrastive learning results in better representation, the practical application of contrastive learning in cell representation learning is hampered by the high dimensionality of scRNA-seq data and the large parameter volume of LLMs. To address the batch size limitation, we propose a novel divide-and-conquer contrastive learning approach to decouple the batch size from the GPU memory size for cell representation learning. Based on our divide-and-conquer contrastive learning approach, we introduce Single-Cell Language Model CellLM, a large-scale cell representation learning model to handle high-dimensional scRNA-seq data with tens of thousands of genes. CellLM has over 50 million parameters trained with 2 million scRNA-seq data and makes the first attempt to learn cell language models from both normal cells and cancer cells. CellLM achieves new state-of-the-art (SOTA) results in all evaluated downstream tasks: including a 71.8 F_1-score for cell type annotation (a 3.0% absolute improvement over scBERT), an average F_1-score of 88.9 for single-cell drug sensitivity prediction in a few-shot scenario (an 8.3% absolute improvement), and a 93.4 Pearson's correlation for single-omics cell line drug sensitivity prediction (a 6.2% absolute improvement). 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** M$^3$IT: A Large-Scale Dataset towards Multi-Modal Multilingual  Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04387  
**Abstract:** Instruction tuning has significantly advanced large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, enabling them to align with human instructions across diverse tasks. However, progress in open vision-language models (VLMs) has been limited due to the scarcity of high-quality instruction datasets. To tackle this challenge and promote research in the vision-language field, we introduce the Multi-Modal, Multilingual Instruction Tuning (M$^3$IT) dataset, designed to optimize VLM alignment with human instructions. Our M$^3$IT dataset comprises 40 carefully curated datasets, including 2.4 million instances and 400 manually written task instructions, reformatted into a vision-to-text structure. Key tasks are translated into 80 languages with an advanced translation system, ensuring broader accessibility. M$^3$IT surpasses previous datasets regarding task coverage, instruction number and instance scale. Moreover, we develop Ying-VLM, a VLM model trained on our M$^3$IT dataset, showcasing its potential to answer complex questions requiring world knowledge, generalize to unseen video tasks, and comprehend unseen instructions in Chinese. To encourage further research, we have open-sourced both the dataset and trained models. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Improving Diffusion-based Image Translation using Asymmetric Gradient  Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04396  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have shown significant progress in image translation tasks recently. However, due to their stochastic nature, there's often a trade-off between style transformation and content preservation. Current strategies aim to disentangle style and content, preserving the source image's structure while successfully transitioning from a source to a target domain under text or one-shot image conditions. Yet, these methods often require computationally intense fine-tuning of diffusion models or additional neural networks. To address these challenges, here we present an approach that guides the reverse process of diffusion sampling by applying asymmetric gradient guidance. This results in quicker and more stable image manipulation for both text-guided and image-guided image translation. Our model's adaptability allows it to be implemented with both image- and latent-diffusion models. Experiments show that our method outperforms various state-of-the-art models in image translation tasks. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Transfer Learning of Transformer-based Speech Recognition Models from  Czech to Slovak  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04399  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we are comparing several methods of training the Slovak speech recognition models based on the Transformers architecture. Specifically, we are exploring the approach of transfer learning from the existing Czech pre-trained Wav2Vec 2.0 model into Slovak. We are demonstrating the benefits of the proposed approach on three Slovak datasets. Our Slovak models scored the best results when initializing the weights from the Czech model at the beginning of the pre-training phase. Our results show that the knowledge stored in the Cezch pre-trained model can be successfully reused to solve tasks in Slovak while outperforming even much larger public multilingual models. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Synthesizing realistic sand assemblies with denoising diffusion in  latent space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04411  
**Abstract:** The shapes and morphological features of grains in sand assemblies have far-reaching implications in many engineering applications, such as geotechnical engineering, computer animations, petroleum engineering, and concentrated solar power. Yet, our understanding of the influence of grain geometries on macroscopic response is often only qualitative, due to the limited availability of high-quality 3D grain geometry data. In this paper, we introduce a denoising diffusion algorithm that uses a set of point clouds collected from the surface of individual sand grains to generate grains in the latent space. By employing a point cloud autoencoder, the three-dimensional point cloud structures of sand grains are first encoded into a lower-dimensional latent space. A generative denoising diffusion probabilistic model is trained to produce synthetic sand that maximizes the log-likelihood of the generated samples belonging to the original data distribution measured by a Kullback-Leibler divergence. Numerical experiments suggest that the proposed method is capable of generating realistic grains with morphology, shapes and sizes consistent with the training data inferred from an F50 sand database . We then use a rigid contact dynamic simulator to pour the synthetic sand in a confined volume to form granular assemblies in a static equilibrium state with targeted distribution properties. To ensure third-party validation, 50,000 synthetic sand grains and the 1,542 real synchrotron microcomputed tomography (SMT) scans of the F50 sand, as well as the granular assemblies composed of synthetic sand grains are made available in an open-source repository. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Examining Bias in Opinion Summarisation Through the Perspective of  Opinion Diversity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04424  
**Abstract:** Opinion summarisation is a task that aims to condense the information presented in the source documents while retaining the core message and opinions. A summary that only represents the majority opinions will leave the minority opinions unrepresented in the summary. In this paper, we use the stance towards a certain target as an opinion. We study bias in opinion summarisation from the perspective of opinion diversity, which measures whether the model generated summary can cover a diverse set of opinions. In addition, we examine opinion similarity, a measure of how closely related two opinions are in terms of their stance on a given topic, and its relationship with opinion diversity. Through the lens of stances towards a topic, we examine opinion diversity and similarity using three debatable topics under COVID-19. Experimental results on these topics revealed that a higher degree of similarity of opinions did not indicate good diversity or fairly cover the various opinions originally presented in the source documents. We found that BART and ChatGPT can better capture diverse opinions presented in the source documents. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Multi-modal Latent Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04445  
**Abstract:** Multi-modal data-sets are ubiquitous in modern applications, and multi-modal Variational Autoencoders are a popular family of models that aim to learn a joint representation of the different modalities. However, existing approaches suffer from a coherence-quality tradeoff, where models with good generation quality lack generative coherence across modalities, and vice versa. We discuss the limitations underlying the unsatisfactory performance of existing methods, to motivate the need for a different approach. We propose a novel method that uses a set of independently trained, uni-modal, deterministic autoencoders. Individual latent variables are concatenated into a common latent space, which is fed to a masked diffusion model to enable generative modeling. We also introduce a new multi-time training method to learn the conditional score network for multi-modal diffusion. Our methodology substantially outperforms competitors in both generation quality and coherence, as shown through an extensive experimental campaign. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Evaluation of ChatGPT on Biomedical Tasks: A Zero-Shot Comparison with  Fine-Tuned Generative Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04504  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a large language model developed by OpenAI. Despite its impressive performance across various tasks, no prior work has investigated its capability in the biomedical domain yet. To this end, this paper aims to evaluate the performance of ChatGPT on various benchmark biomedical tasks, such as relation extraction, document classification, question answering, and summarization. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that conducts an extensive evaluation of ChatGPT in the biomedical domain. Interestingly, we find based on our evaluation that in biomedical datasets that have smaller training sets, zero-shot ChatGPT even outperforms the state-of-the-art fine-tuned generative transformer models, such as BioGPT and BioBART. This suggests that ChatGPT's pre-training on large text corpora makes it quite specialized even in the biomedical domain. Our findings demonstrate that ChatGPT has the potential to be a valuable tool for various tasks in the biomedical domain that lack large annotated data. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Enhancing In-Context Learning with Answer Feedback for Multi-Span  Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04508  
**Abstract:** Whereas the recent emergence of large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT has exhibited impressive general performance, it still has a large gap with fully-supervised models on specific tasks such as multi-span question answering. Previous researches found that in-context learning is an effective approach to exploiting LLM, by using a few task-related labeled data as demonstration examples to construct a few-shot prompt for answering new questions. A popular implementation is to concatenate a few questions and their correct answers through simple templates, informing LLM of the desired output. In this paper, we propose a novel way of employing labeled data such that it also informs LLM of some undesired output, by extending demonstration examples with feedback about answers predicted by an off-the-shelf model, e.g., correct, incorrect, or incomplete. Experiments on three multi-span question answering datasets as well as a keyphrase extraction dataset show that our new prompting strategy consistently improves LLM's in-context learning performance. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** On the Design Fundamentals of Diffusion Models: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04542  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are generative models, which gradually add and remove noise to learn the underlying distribution of training data for data generation. The components of diffusion models have gained significant attention with many design choices proposed. Existing reviews have primarily focused on higher-level solutions, thereby covering less on the design fundamentals of components. This study seeks to address this gap by providing a comprehensive and coherent review on component-wise design choices in diffusion models. Specifically, we organize this review according to their three key components, namely the forward process, the reverse process, and the sampling procedure. This allows us to provide a fine-grained perspective of diffusion models, benefiting future studies in the analysis of individual components, the applicability of design choices, and the implementation of diffusion models. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** ChatGPT is fun, but it is not funny! Humor is still challenging Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04563  
**Abstract:** Humor is a central aspect of human communication that has not been solved for artificial agents so far. Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly able to capture implicit and contextual information. Especially, OpenAI's ChatGPT recently gained immense public attention. The GPT3-based model almost seems to communicate on a human level and can even tell jokes. Humor is an essential component of human communication. But is ChatGPT really funny? We put ChatGPT's sense of humor to the test. In a series of exploratory experiments around jokes, i.e., generation, explanation, and detection, we seek to understand ChatGPT's capability to grasp and reproduce human humor. Since the model itself is not accessible, we applied prompt-based experiments. Our empirical evidence indicates that jokes are not hard-coded but mostly also not newly generated by the model. Over 90% of 1008 generated jokes were the same 25 Jokes. The system accurately explains valid jokes but also comes up with fictional explanations for invalid jokes. Joke-typical characteristics can mislead ChatGPT in the classification of jokes. ChatGPT has not solved computational humor yet but it can be a big leap toward "funny" machines. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Proximity-Informed Calibration for Deep Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04590  
**Abstract:** Confidence calibration is central to providing accurate and interpretable uncertainty estimates, especially under safety-critical scenarios. However, we find that existing calibration algorithms often overlook the issue of proximity bias, a phenomenon where models tend to be more overconfident in low proximity data (i.e., lying in the sparse region of the data distribution) compared to high proximity samples, and thus suffer from inconsistent miscalibration across different proximity samples. We examine the problem over pretrained ImageNet models and observe that: 1) Proximity bias exists across a wide variety of model architectures and sizes; 2) Transformer-based models are more susceptible to proximity bias than CNN-based models; 3) Proximity bias persists even after performing popular calibration algorithms like temperature scaling; 4) Models tend to overfit more heavily on low proximity samples than on high proximity samples. Motivated by the empirical findings, we propose ProCal, a plug-and-play algorithm with a theoretical guarantee to adjust sample confidence based on proximity. To further quantify the effectiveness of calibration algorithms in mitigating proximity bias, we introduce proximity-informed expected calibration error (PIECE) with theoretical analysis. We show that ProCal is effective in addressing proximity bias and improving calibration on balanced, long-tail, and distribution-shift settings under four metrics over various model architectures. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Integrating Geometric Control into Text-to-Image Diffusion Models for  High-Quality Detection Data Generation via Text Prompt  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04607  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have attracted significant attention due to their remarkable ability to create content and generate data for tasks such as image classification. However, the usage of diffusion models to generate high-quality object detection data remains an underexplored area, where not only the image-level perceptual quality but also geometric conditions such as bounding boxes and camera views are essential. Previous studies have utilized either copy-paste synthesis or layout-to-image (L2I) generation with specifically designed modules to encode semantic layouts. In this paper, we propose GeoDiffusion, a simple framework that can flexibly translate various geometric conditions into text prompts and empower the pre-trained text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models for high-quality detection data generation. Unlike previous L2I methods, our GeoDiffusion is able to encode not only bounding boxes but also extra geometric conditions such as camera views in self-driving scenes. Extensive experiments demonstrate GeoDiffusion outperforms previous L2I methods while maintaining 4x training time faster. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to adopt diffusion models for layout-to-image generation with geometric conditions and demonstrate that L2I-generated images can be beneficial for improving the performance of object detectors. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** The Two Word Test: A Semantic Benchmark for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04610  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable abilities recently, including passing advanced professional exams and demanding benchmark tests. This performance has led many to suggest that they are close to achieving humanlike or 'true' understanding of language, and even Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). Here, we provide a new open-source benchmark that can assess semantic abilities of LLMs using two-word phrases using a task that can be performed relatively easily by humans without advanced training. Combining multiple words into a single concept is a fundamental aspect of human language and intelligence. The test requires meaningfulness judgments of 1768 noun-noun combinations that have been rated as meaningful (e.g., baby boy) or not meaningful (e.g., goat sky). by 150 human raters. We provide versions of the task that probe meaningfulness ratings on a 0-4 scale as well as binary judgments. We conducted a series of experiments using the TWT on GPT-4, GPT-3.5, and Bard, with both versions. Results demonstrated that, compared to humans, all models perform poorly at rating meaningfulness of these phrases. GPT-3.5 and Bard are also unable to make binary discriminations between sensible and nonsense phrases as making sense. GPT-4 makes a substantial improvement in binary discrimination of combinatorial phrases but is still significantly worse than human performance. The TWT can be used to understand the limitations and weaknesses of current LLMs, and potentially improve them. The test also reminds us that caution is warranted in attributing 'true understanding' or AGI to LLMs. TWT is available at: https://github.com/NickRiccardi/two-word-test 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** ARTIC3D: Learning Robust Articulated 3D Shapes from Noisy Web Image  Collections  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04619  
**Abstract:** Estimating 3D articulated shapes like animal bodies from monocular images is inherently challenging due to the ambiguities of camera viewpoint, pose, texture, lighting, etc. We propose ARTIC3D, a self-supervised framework to reconstruct per-instance 3D shapes from a sparse image collection in-the-wild. Specifically, ARTIC3D is built upon a skeleton-based surface representation and is further guided by 2D diffusion priors from Stable Diffusion. First, we enhance the input images with occlusions/truncation via 2D diffusion to obtain cleaner mask estimates and semantic features. Second, we perform diffusion-guided 3D optimization to estimate shape and texture that are of high-fidelity and faithful to input images. We also propose a novel technique to calculate more stable image-level gradients via diffusion models compared to existing alternatives. Finally, we produce realistic animations by fine-tuning the rendered shape and texture under rigid part transformations. Extensive evaluations on multiple existing datasets as well as newly introduced noisy web image collections with occlusions and truncation demonstrate that ARTIC3D outputs are more robust to noisy images, higher quality in terms of shape and texture details, and more realistic when animated. Project page: https://chhankyao.github.io/artic3d/ 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Systematic Analysis of Music Representations from BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04628  
**Abstract:** There have been numerous attempts to represent raw data as numerical vectors that effectively capture semantic and contextual information. However, in the field of symbolic music, previous works have attempted to validate their music embeddings by observing the performance improvement of various fine-tuning tasks. In this work, we directly analyze embeddings from BERT and BERT with contrastive learning trained on bar-level MIDI, inspecting their musical information that can be obtained from MIDI events. We observe that the embeddings exhibit distinct characteristics of information depending on the contrastive objectives and the choice of layers. Our code is available at https://github.com/sjhan91/MusicBERT. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Designing a Better Asymmetric VQGAN for StableDiffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04632  
**Abstract:** StableDiffusion is a revolutionary text-to-image generator that is causing a stir in the world of image generation and editing. Unlike traditional methods that learn a diffusion model in pixel space, StableDiffusion learns a diffusion model in the latent space via a VQGAN, ensuring both efficiency and quality. It not only supports image generation tasks, but also enables image editing for real images, such as image inpainting and local editing. However, we have observed that the vanilla VQGAN used in StableDiffusion leads to significant information loss, causing distortion artifacts even in non-edited image regions. To this end, we propose a new asymmetric VQGAN with two simple designs. Firstly, in addition to the input from the encoder, the decoder contains a conditional branch that incorporates information from task-specific priors, such as the unmasked image region in inpainting. Secondly, the decoder is much heavier than the encoder, allowing for more detailed recovery while only slightly increasing the total inference cost. The training cost of our asymmetric VQGAN is cheap, and we only need to retrain a new asymmetric decoder while keeping the vanilla VQGAN encoder and StableDiffusion unchanged. Our asymmetric VQGAN can be widely used in StableDiffusion-based inpainting and local editing methods. Extensive experiments demonstrate that it can significantly improve the inpainting and editing performance, while maintaining the original text-to-image capability. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/buxiangzhiren/Asymmetric_VQGAN}. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Transformers as Statisticians: Provable In-Context Learning with  In-Context Algorithm Selection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04637  
**Abstract:** Neural sequence models based on the transformer architecture have demonstrated remarkable \emph{in-context learning} (ICL) abilities, where they can perform new tasks when prompted with training and test examples, without any parameter update to the model. This work first provides a comprehensive statistical theory for transformers to perform ICL. Concretely, we show that transformers can implement a broad class of standard machine learning algorithms in context, such as least squares, ridge regression, Lasso, learning generalized linear models, and gradient descent on two-layer neural networks, with near-optimal predictive power on various in-context data distributions. Using an efficient implementation of in-context gradient descent as the underlying mechanism, our transformer constructions admit mild size bounds, and can be learned with polynomially many pretraining sequences. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** High-dimensional and Permutation Invariant Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.03933  
**Abstract:** Methods for anomaly detection of new physics processes are often limited to low-dimensional spaces due to the difficulty of learning high-dimensional probability densities. Particularly at the constituent level, incorporating desirable properties such as permutation invariance and variable-length inputs becomes difficult within popular density estimation methods. In this work, we introduce a permutation-invariant density estimator for particle physics data based on diffusion models, specifically designed to handle variable-length inputs. We demonstrate the efficacy of our methodology by utilizing the learned density as a permutation-invariant anomaly detection score, effectively identifying jets with low likelihood under the background-only hypothesis. To validate our density estimation method, we investigate the ratio of learned densities and compare to those obtained by a supervised classification algorithm. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** TEC-Net: Vision Transformer Embrace Convolutional Neural Networks for  Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04086  
**Abstract:** The hybrid architecture of convolution neural networks (CNN) and Transformer has been the most popular method for medical image segmentation. However, the existing networks based on the hybrid architecture suffer from two problems. First, although the CNN branch can capture image local features by using convolution operation, the vanilla convolution is unable to achieve adaptive extraction of image features. Second, although the Transformer branch can model the global information of images, the conventional self-attention only focuses on the spatial self-attention of images and ignores the channel and cross-dimensional self-attention leading to low segmentation accuracy for medical images with complex backgrounds. To solve these problems, we propose vision Transformer embrace convolutional neural networks for medical image segmentation (TEC-Net). Our network has two advantages. First, dynamic deformable convolution (DDConv) is designed in the CNN branch, which not only overcomes the difficulty of adaptive feature extraction using fixed-size convolution kernels, but also solves the defect that different inputs share the same convolution kernel parameters, effectively improving the feature expression ability of CNN branch. Second, in the Transformer branch, a (shifted)-window adaptive complementary attention module ((S)W-ACAM) and compact convolutional projection are designed to enable the network to fully learn the cross-dimensional long-range dependency of medical images with few parameters and calculations. Experimental results show that the proposed TEC-Net provides better medical image segmentation results than SOTA methods including CNN and Transformer networks. In addition, our TEC-Net requires fewer parameters and computational costs and does not rely on pre-training. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/SR0920/TEC-Net. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Self-supervised Audio Teacher-Student Transformer for Both Clip-level  and Frame-level Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04186  
**Abstract:** In recent years, self-supervised learning (SSL) has emerged as a popular approach for learning audio representations. The ultimate goal of audio self-supervised pre-training is to transfer knowledge to downstream audio tasks, generally including clip-level and frame-level tasks. Clip-level tasks classify the scene or sound of an entire audio clip, e.g. audio tagging, instrument recognition, etc. While frame-level tasks detect event-level timestamps from an audio clip, e.g. sound event detection, speaker diarization, etc. Prior studies primarily evaluate on clip-level downstream tasks. Frame-level tasks are important for fine-grained acoustic scene/event understanding, and are generally more challenging than clip-level tasks. In order to tackle both clip-level and frame-level tasks, this paper proposes two self-supervised audio representation learning methods: ATST-Clip and ATST-Frame, responsible for learning clip-level and frame-level representations, respectively. ATST stands for Audio Teacher-Student Transformer, which means both methods use a transformer encoder and a teacher-student training scheme.Experimental results show that our ATST-Frame model obtains state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on most of the clip-level and frame-level downstream tasks. Especially, it outperforms other models by a large margin on the frame-level sound event detection task. In addition, the performance can be further improved by combining the two models through knowledge distillation. 

