**ID:** 1  
**Title:** DiffusionShield: A Watermark for Copyright Protection against Generative  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04642  
**Abstract:** Recently, Generative Diffusion Models (GDMs) have showcased their remarkable capabilities in learning and generating images. A large community of GDMs has naturally emerged, further promoting the diversified applications of GDMs in various fields. However, this unrestricted proliferation has raised serious concerns about copyright protection. For example, artists including painters and photographers are becoming increasingly concerned that GDMs could effortlessly replicate their unique creative works without authorization. In response to these challenges, we introduce a novel watermarking scheme, DiffusionShield, tailored for GDMs. DiffusionShield protects images from copyright infringement by GDMs through encoding the ownership information into an imperceptible watermark and injecting it into the images. Its watermark can be easily learned by GDMs and will be reproduced in their generated images. By detecting the watermark from generated images, copyright infringement can be exposed with evidence. Benefiting from the uniformity of the watermarks and the joint optimization method, DiffusionShield ensures low distortion of the original image, high watermark detection performance, and the ability to embed lengthy messages. We conduct rigorous and comprehensive experiments to show the effectiveness of DiffusionShield in defending against infringement by GDMs and its superiority over traditional watermarking methods. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** DenseDINO: Boosting Dense Self-Supervised Learning with Token-Based  Point-Level Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04654  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective transformer framework for self-supervised learning called DenseDINO to learn dense visual representations. To exploit the spatial information that the dense prediction tasks require but neglected by the existing self-supervised transformers, we introduce point-level supervision across views in a novel token-based way. Specifically, DenseDINO introduces some extra input tokens called reference tokens to match the point-level features with the position prior. With the reference token, the model could maintain spatial consistency and deal with multi-object complex scene images, thus generalizing better on dense prediction tasks. Compared with the vanilla DINO, our approach obtains competitive performance when evaluated on classification in ImageNet and achieves a large margin (+7.2% mIoU) improvement in semantic segmentation on PascalVOC under the linear probing protocol for segmentation. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Understanding Place Identity with Generative AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04662  
**Abstract:** Researchers are constantly leveraging new forms of data with the goal of understanding how people perceive the built environment and build the collective place identity of cities. Latest advancements in generative artificial intelligence (AI) models have enabled the production of realistic representations learned from vast amounts of data. In this study, we aim to test the potential of generative AI as the source of textual and visual information in capturing the place identity of cities assessed by filtered descriptions and images. We asked questions on the place identity of a set of 31 global cities to two generative AI models, ChatGPT and DALL-E2. Since generative AI has raised ethical concerns regarding its trustworthiness, we performed cross-validation to examine whether the results show similar patterns to real urban settings. In particular, we compared the outputs with Wikipedia data for text and images searched from Google for image. Our results indicate that generative AI models have the potential to capture the collective image of cities that can make them distinguishable. This study is among the first attempts to explore the capabilities of generative AI in understanding human perceptions of the built environment. It contributes to urban design literature by discussing future research opportunities and potential limitations. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** 2D Object Detection with Transformers: A Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04670  
**Abstract:** Astounding performance of Transformers in natural language processing (NLP) has delighted researchers to explore their utilization in computer vision tasks. Like other computer vision tasks, DEtection TRansformer (DETR) introduces transformers for object detection tasks by considering the detection as a set prediction problem without needing proposal generation and post-processing steps. It is a state-of-the-art (SOTA) method for object detection, particularly in scenarios where the number of objects in an image is relatively small. Despite the success of DETR, it suffers from slow training convergence and performance drops for small objects. Therefore, many improvements are proposed to address these issues, leading to immense refinement in DETR. Since 2020, transformer-based object detection has attracted increasing interest and demonstrated impressive performance. Although numerous surveys have been conducted on transformers in vision in general, a review regarding advancements made in 2D object detection using transformers is still missing. This paper gives a detailed review of twenty-one papers about recent developments in DETR. We begin with the basic modules of Transformers, such as self-attention, object queries and input features encoding. Then, we cover the latest advancements in DETR, including backbone modification, query design and attention refinement. We also compare all detection transformers in terms of performance and network design. We hope this study will increase the researcher's interest in solving existing challenges towards applying transformers in the object detection domain. Researchers can follow newer improvements in detection transformers on this webpage available at: https://github.com/mindgarage-shan/trans_object_detection_survey 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Exposing flaws of generative model evaluation metrics and their unfair  treatment of diffusion models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04675  
**Abstract:** We systematically study a wide variety of image-based generative models spanning semantically-diverse datasets to understand and improve the feature extractors and metrics used to evaluate them. Using best practices in psychophysics, we measure human perception of image realism for generated samples by conducting the largest experiment evaluating generative models to date, and find that no existing metric strongly correlates with human evaluations. Comparing to 16 modern metrics for evaluating the overall performance, fidelity, diversity, and memorization of generative models, we find that the state-of-the-art perceptual realism of diffusion models as judged by humans is not reflected in commonly reported metrics such as FID. This discrepancy is not explained by diversity in generated samples, though one cause is over-reliance on Inception-V3. We address these flaws through a study of alternative self-supervised feature extractors, find that the semantic information encoded by individual networks strongly depends on their training procedure, and show that DINOv2-ViT-L/14 allows for much richer evaluation of generative models. Next, we investigate data memorization, and find that generative models do memorize training examples on simple, smaller datasets like CIFAR10, but not necessarily on more complex datasets like ImageNet. However, our experiments show that current metrics do not properly detect memorization; none in the literature is able to separate memorization from other phenomena such as underfitting or mode shrinkage. To facilitate further development of generative models and their evaluation we release all generated image datasets, human evaluation data, and a modular library to compute 16 common metrics for 8 different encoders at https://github.com/layer6ai-labs/dgm-eval. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** ConceptBed: Evaluating Concept Learning Abilities of Text-to-Image  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04695  
**Abstract:** The ability to understand visual concepts and replicate and compose these concepts from images is a central goal for computer vision. Recent advances in text-to-image (T2I) models have lead to high definition and realistic image quality generation by learning from large databases of images and their descriptions. However, the evaluation of T2I models has focused on photorealism and limited qualitative measures of visual understanding. To quantify the ability of T2I models in learning and synthesizing novel visual concepts, we introduce ConceptBed, a large-scale dataset that consists of 284 unique visual concepts, 5K unique concept compositions, and 33K composite text prompts. Along with the dataset, we propose an evaluation metric, Concept Confidence Deviation (CCD), that uses the confidence of oracle concept classifiers to measure the alignment between concepts generated by T2I generators and concepts contained in ground truth images. We evaluate visual concepts that are either objects, attributes, or styles, and also evaluate four dimensions of compositionality: counting, attributes, relations, and actions. Our human study shows that CCD is highly correlated with human understanding of concepts. Our results point to a trade-off between learning the concepts and preserving the compositionality which existing approaches struggle to overcome. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** UniBoost: Unsupervised Unimodal Pre-training for Boosting Zero-shot  Vision-Language Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04715  
**Abstract:** Large-scale joint training of multimodal models, e.g., CLIP, have demonstrated great performance in many vision-language tasks. However, image-text pairs for pre-training are restricted to the intersection of images and texts, limiting their ability to cover a large distribution of real-world data, where noise can also be introduced as misaligned pairs during pre-processing. Conversely, unimodal models trained on text or image data alone through unsupervised techniques can achieve broader coverage of diverse real-world data and are not constrained by the requirement of simultaneous presence of image and text. In this paper, we demonstrate that using large-scale unsupervised unimodal models as pre-training can enhance the zero-shot performance of image-text pair models. Our thorough studies validate that models pre-trained as such can learn rich representations of both modalities, improving their ability to understand how images and text relate to each other. Our experiments show that unimodal pre-training outperforms state-of-the-art CLIP-based models by 6.5% (52.3% $\rightarrow$ 58.8%) on PASCAL-5$^i$ and 6.2% (27.2% $\rightarrow$ 33.4%) on COCO-20$^i$ semantic segmentation under zero-shot setting respectively. By learning representations of both modalities, unimodal pre-training offers broader coverage, reduced misalignment errors, and the ability to capture more complex features and patterns in the real-world data resulting in better performance especially for zero-shot vision-language tasks. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** ScienceBenchmark: A Complex Real-World Benchmark for Evaluating Natural  Language to SQL Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04743  
**Abstract:** Natural Language to SQL systems (NL-to-SQL) have recently shown a significant increase in accuracy for natural language to SQL query translation. This improvement is due to the emergence of transformer-based language models, and the popularity of the Spider benchmark - the de-facto standard for evaluating NL-to-SQL systems. The top NL-to-SQL systems reach accuracies of up to 85\%. However, Spider mainly contains simple databases with few tables, columns, and entries, which does not reflect a realistic setting. Moreover, complex real-world databases with domain-specific content have little to no training data available in the form of NL/SQL-pairs leading to poor performance of existing NL-to-SQL systems. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** WOUAF: Weight Modulation for User Attribution and Fingerprinting in  Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04744  
**Abstract:** The rapid advancement of generative models, facilitating the creation of hyper-realistic images from textual descriptions, has concurrently escalated critical societal concerns such as misinformation. Traditional fake detection mechanisms, although providing some mitigation, fall short in attributing responsibility for the malicious use of synthetic images. This paper introduces a novel approach to model fingerprinting that assigns responsibility for the generated images, thereby serving as a potential countermeasure to model misuse. Our method modifies generative models based on each user's unique digital fingerprint, imprinting a unique identifier onto the resultant content that can be traced back to the user. This approach, incorporating fine-tuning into Text-to-Image (T2I) tasks using the Stable Diffusion Model, demonstrates near-perfect attribution accuracy with a minimal impact on output quality. We rigorously scrutinize our method's secrecy under two distinct scenarios: one where a malicious user attempts to detect the fingerprint, and another where a user possesses a comprehensive understanding of our method. We also evaluate the robustness of our approach against various image post-processing manipulations typically executed by end-users. Through extensive evaluation of the Stable Diffusion models, our method presents a promising and novel avenue for accountable model distribution and responsible use. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** A Linearly Convergent GAN Inversion-based Algorithm for Reverse  Engineering of Deceptions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04756  
**Abstract:** An important aspect of developing reliable deep learning systems is devising strategies that make these systems robust to adversarial attacks. There is a long line of work that focuses on developing defenses against these attacks, but recently, researchers have began to study ways to reverse engineer the attack process. This allows us to not only defend against several attack models, but also classify the threat model. However, there is still a lack of theoretical guarantees for the reverse engineering process. Current approaches that give any guarantees are based on the assumption that the data lies in a union of linear subspaces, which is not a valid assumption for more complex datasets. In this paper, we build on prior work and propose a novel framework for reverse engineering of deceptions which supposes that the clean data lies in the range of a GAN. To classify the signal and attack, we jointly solve a GAN inversion problem and a block-sparse recovery problem. For the first time in the literature, we provide deterministic linear convergence guarantees for this problem. We also empirically demonstrate the merits of the proposed approach on several nonlinear datasets as compared to state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** INSTRUCTEVAL: Towards Holistic Evaluation of Instruction-Tuned Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04757  
**Abstract:** Instruction-tuned large language models have revolutionized natural language processing and have shown great potential in applications such as conversational agents. These models, such as GPT-4, can not only master language but also solve complex tasks in areas like mathematics, coding, medicine, and law. Despite their impressive capabilities, there is still a lack of comprehensive understanding regarding their full potential, primarily due to the black-box nature of many models and the absence of holistic evaluation studies. To address these challenges, we present INSTRUCTEVAL, a more comprehensive evaluation suite designed specifically for instruction-tuned large language models. Unlike previous works, our evaluation involves a rigorous assessment of models based on problem-solving, writing ability, and alignment to human values. We take a holistic approach to analyze various factors affecting model performance, including the pretraining foundation, instruction-tuning data, and training methods. Our findings reveal that the quality of instruction data is the most crucial factor in scaling model performance. While open-source models demonstrate impressive writing abilities, there is substantial room for improvement in problem-solving and alignment. We are encouraged by the rapid development of models by the open-source community, but we also highlight the need for rigorous evaluation to support claims made about these models. Through INSTRUCTEVAL, we aim to foster a deeper understanding of instruction-tuned models and advancements in their capabilities. INSTRUCTEVAL is publicly available at https://github.com/declare-lab/instruct-eval. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Absformer: Transformer-based Model for Unsupervised Multi-Document  Abstractive Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04787  
**Abstract:** Multi-document summarization (MDS) refers to the task of summarizing the text in multiple documents into a concise summary. The generated summary can save the time of reading many documents by providing the important content in the form of a few sentences. Abstractive MDS aims to generate a coherent and fluent summary for multiple documents using natural language generation techniques. In this paper, we consider the unsupervised abstractive MDS setting where there are only documents with no groundtruh summaries provided, and we propose Absformer, a new Transformer-based method for unsupervised abstractive summary generation. Our method consists of a first step where we pretrain a Transformer-based encoder using the masked language modeling (MLM) objective as the pretraining task in order to cluster the documents into semantically similar groups; and a second step where we train a Transformer-based decoder to generate abstractive summaries for the clusters of documents. To our knowledge, we are the first to successfully incorporate a Transformer-based model to solve the unsupervised abstractive MDS task. We evaluate our approach using three real-world datasets from different domains, and we demonstrate both substantial improvements in terms of evaluation metrics over state-of-the-art abstractive-based methods, and generalization to datasets from different domains. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Good Data, Large Data, or No Data? Comparing Three Approaches in  Developing Research Aspect Classifiers for Biomedical Papers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04820  
**Abstract:** The rapid growth of scientific publications, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic, emphasizes the need for tools to help researchers efficiently comprehend the latest advancements. One essential part of understanding scientific literature is research aspect classification, which categorizes sentences in abstracts to Background, Purpose, Method, and Finding. In this study, we investigate the impact of different datasets on model performance for the crowd-annotated CODA-19 research aspect classification task. Specifically, we explore the potential benefits of using the large, automatically curated PubMed 200K RCT dataset and evaluate the effectiveness of large language models (LLMs), such as LLaMA, GPT-3, ChatGPT, and GPT-4. Our results indicate that using the PubMed 200K RCT dataset does not improve performance for the CODA-19 task. We also observe that while GPT-4 performs well, it does not outperform the SciBERT model fine-tuned on the CODA-19 dataset, emphasizing the importance of a dedicated and task-aligned datasets dataset for the target task. Our code is available at https://github.com/Crowd-AI-Lab/CODA-19-exp. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Optimizing ViViT Training: Time and Memory Reduction for Action  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04822  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we address the challenges posed by the substantial training time and memory consumption associated with video transformers, focusing on the ViViT (Video Vision Transformer) model, in particular the Factorised Encoder version, as our baseline for action recognition tasks. The factorised encoder variant follows the late-fusion approach that is adopted by many state of the art approaches. Despite standing out for its favorable speed/accuracy tradeoffs among the different variants of ViViT, its considerable training time and memory requirements still pose a significant barrier to entry. Our method is designed to lower this barrier and is based on the idea of freezing the spatial transformer during training. This leads to a low accuracy model if naively done. But we show that by (1) appropriately initializing the temporal transformer (a module responsible for processing temporal information) (2) introducing a compact adapter model connecting frozen spatial representations ((a module that selectively focuses on regions of the input image) to the temporal transformer, we can enjoy the benefits of freezing the spatial transformer without sacrificing accuracy. Through extensive experimentation over 6 benchmarks, we demonstrate that our proposed training strategy significantly reduces training costs (by $\sim 50\%$) and memory consumption while maintaining or slightly improving performance by up to 1.79\% compared to the baseline model. Our approach additionally unlocks the capability to utilize larger image transformer models as our spatial transformer and access more frames with the same memory consumption. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Unified Embedding Based Personalized Retrieval in Etsy Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04833  
**Abstract:** Embedding-based neural retrieval is a prevalent approach to address the semantic gap problem which often arises in product search on tail queries. In contrast, popular queries typically lack context and have a broad intent where additional context from users historical interaction can be helpful. In this paper, we share our novel approach to address both: the semantic gap problem followed by an end to end trained model for personalized semantic retrieval. We propose learning a unified embedding model incorporating graph, transformer and term-based embeddings end to end and share our design choices for optimal tradeoff between performance and efficiency. We share our learnings in feature engineering, hard negative sampling strategy, and application of transformer model, including a novel pre-training strategy and other tricks for improving search relevance and deploying such a model at industry scale. Our personalized retrieval model significantly improves the overall search experience, as measured by a 5.58% increase in search purchase rate and a 2.63% increase in site-wide conversion rate, aggregated across multiple A/B tests - on live traffic. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** A Semi-supervised Object Detection Algorithm for Underwater Imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04834  
**Abstract:** Detection of artificial objects from underwater imagery gathered by Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) is a key requirement for many subsea applications. Real-world AUV image datasets tend to be very large and unlabelled. Furthermore, such datasets are typically imbalanced, containing few instances of objects of interest, particularly when searching for unusual objects in a scene. It is therefore, difficult to fit models capable of reliably detecting these objects. Given these factors, we propose to treat artificial objects as anomalies and detect them through a semi-supervised framework based on Variational Autoencoders (VAEs). We develop a method which clusters image data in a learned low-dimensional latent space and extracts images that are likely to contain anomalous features. We also devise an anomaly score based on extracting poorly reconstructed regions of an image. We demonstrate that by applying both methods on large image datasets, human operators can be shown candidate anomalous samples with a low false positive rate to identify objects of interest. We apply our approach to real seafloor imagery gathered by an AUV and evaluate its sensitivity to the dimensionality of the latent representation used by the VAE. We evaluate the precision-recall tradeoff and demonstrate that by choosing an appropriate latent dimensionality and threshold, we are able to achieve an average precision of 0.64 on unlabelled datasets. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** InvPT++: Inverted Pyramid Multi-Task Transformer for Visual Scene  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04842  
**Abstract:** Multi-task scene understanding aims to design models that can simultaneously predict several scene understanding tasks with one versatile model. Previous studies typically process multi-task features in a more local way, and thus cannot effectively learn spatially global and cross-task interactions, which hampers the models' ability to fully leverage the consistency of various tasks in multi-task learning. To tackle this problem, we propose an Inverted Pyramid multi-task Transformer, capable of modeling cross-task interaction among spatial features of different tasks in a global context. Specifically, we first utilize a transformer encoder to capture task-generic features for all tasks. And then, we design a transformer decoder to establish spatial and cross-task interaction globally, and a novel UP-Transformer block is devised to increase the resolutions of multi-task features gradually and establish cross-task interaction at different scales. Furthermore, two types of Cross-Scale Self-Attention modules, i.e., Fusion Attention and Selective Attention, are proposed to efficiently facilitate cross-task interaction across different feature scales. An Encoder Feature Aggregation strategy is further introduced to better model multi-scale information in the decoder. Comprehensive experiments on several 2D/3D multi-task benchmarks clearly demonstrate our proposal's effectiveness, establishing significant state-of-the-art performances. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Interpreting and Improving Diffusion Models Using the Euclidean Distance  Function  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04848  
**Abstract:** Denoising is intuitively related to projection. Indeed, under the manifold hypothesis, adding random noise is approximately equivalent to orthogonal perturbation. Hence, learning to denoise is approximately learning to project. In this paper, we use this observation to reinterpret denoising diffusion models as approximate gradient descent applied to the Euclidean distance function. We then provide straight-forward convergence analysis of the DDIM sampler under simple assumptions on the projection-error of the denoiser. Finally, we propose a new sampler based on two simple modifications to DDIM using insights from our theoretical results. In as few as 5-10 function evaluations, our sampler achieves state-of-the-art FID scores on pretrained CIFAR-10 and CelebA models and can generate high quality samples on latent diffusion models. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** MyStyle++: A Controllable Personalized Generative Prior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04865  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose an approach to obtain a personalized generative prior with explicit control over a set of attributes. We build upon MyStyle, a recently introduced method, that tunes the weights of a pre-trained StyleGAN face generator on a few images of an individual. This system allows synthesizing, editing, and enhancing images of the target individual with high fidelity to their facial features. However, MyStyle does not demonstrate precise control over the attributes of the generated images. We propose to address this problem through a novel optimization system that organizes the latent space in addition to tuning the generator. Our key contribution is to formulate a loss that arranges the latent codes, corresponding to the input images, along a set of specific directions according to their attributes. We demonstrate that our approach, dubbed MyStyle++, is able to synthesize, edit, and enhance images of an individual with great control over the attributes, while preserving the unique facial characteristics of that individual. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** City-wide Origin-Destination Matrix Generation via Graph Denoising  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04873  
**Abstract:** The Origin-Destination~(OD) matrix provides an estimation of number of individuals traveling between regions, i.e., mobility flow in the city, which is widely-used in urban planning, transportation, etc. Given various city characteristics of urban regions, generating the city-wide OD matrix without using historical flow information has become increasingly appealing to both researchers and practitioners. However, existing works are limited in independent generation of each element, i.e., flow, in OD matrix, overlooking the element relations within the matrix that can be well formulated as a network. In this paper, we instead propose to generate the city-wide OD matrix from the network perspective, and design a graph denoising diffusion method to learn the conditional joint probability distribution of all elements in the OD matrix given city characteristics at region level. To overcome the learning difficulty of the city-wide OD matrix covering over thousands of regions, we decompose the original one-shot generative modeling of the diffusion model into two cascaded stages, corresponding to the generation of network topology and mobility flow, respectively. To further reproduce important network properties contained in city-wide OD matrices, we design an elaborated graph denoising network structure including a node property augmentation module and a graph transformer backbone. Empirical experiments on data collected in two large US cities have verified that our method can generate OD matrices for new cities with network statistics remarkably similar with the ground truth, further achieving superior outperformance over competitive baselines in terms of the generation realism. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Instructed Diffuser with Temporal Condition Guidance for Offline  Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04875  
**Abstract:** Recent works have shown the potential of diffusion models in computer vision and natural language processing. Apart from the classical supervised learning fields, diffusion models have also shown strong competitiveness in reinforcement learning (RL) by formulating decision-making as sequential generation. However, incorporating temporal information of sequential data and utilizing it to guide diffusion models to perform better generation is still an open challenge. In this paper, we take one step forward to investigate controllable generation with temporal conditions that are refined from temporal information. We observe the importance of temporal conditions in sequential generation in sufficient explorative scenarios and provide a comprehensive discussion and comparison of different temporal conditions. Based on the observations, we propose an effective temporally-conditional diffusion model coined Temporally-Composable Diffuser (TCD), which extracts temporal information from interaction sequences and explicitly guides generation with temporal conditions. Specifically, we separate the sequences into three parts according to time expansion and identify historical, immediate, and prospective conditions accordingly. Each condition preserves non-overlapping temporal information of sequences, enabling more controllable generation when we jointly use them to guide the diffuser. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments and analysis to reveal the favorable applicability of TCD in offline RL tasks, where our method reaches or matches the best performance compared with prior SOTA baselines. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Augmenting Hessians with Inter-Layer Dependencies for Mixed-Precision  Post-Training Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04879  
**Abstract:** Efficiently serving neural network models with low latency is becoming more challenging due to increasing model complexity and parameter count. Model quantization offers a solution which simultaneously reduces memory footprint and compute requirements. However, aggressive quantization may lead to an unacceptable loss in model accuracy owing to differences in sensitivity to numerical imperfection across different layers in the model. To address this challenge, we propose a mixed-precision post training quantization (PTQ) approach that assigns different numerical precisions to tensors in a network based on their specific needs, for a reduced memory footprint and improved latency while preserving model accuracy. Previous works rely on layer-wise Hessian information to determine numerical precision, but as we demonstrate, Hessian estimation is typically insufficient in determining an effective ordering of layer sensitivities. We address this by augmenting the estimated Hessian with additional information to capture inter-layer dependencies. We demonstrate that this consistently improves PTQ performance along the accuracy-latency Pareto frontier across multiple models. Our method combines second-order information and inter-layer dependencies to guide a bisection search, finding quantization configurations within a user-configurable model accuracy degradation range. We evaluate the effectiveness of our method on the ResNet50, MobileNetV2, and BERT models. Our experiments demonstrate latency reductions compared to a 16-bit baseline of $25.48\%$, $21.69\%$, and $33.28\%$ respectively, while maintaining model accuracy to within $99.99\%$ of the baseline model. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Muti-Scale And Token Mergence: Make Your ViT More Efficient  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04897  
**Abstract:** Since its inception, Vision Transformer (ViT) has emerged as a prevalent model in the computer vision domain. Nonetheless, the multi-head self-attention (MHSA) mechanism in ViT is computationally expensive due to its calculation of relationships among all tokens. Although some techniques mitigate computational overhead by discarding tokens, this also results in the loss of potential information from those tokens. To tackle these issues, we propose a novel token pruning method that retains information from non-crucial tokens by merging them with more crucial tokens, thereby mitigating the impact of pruning on model performance. Crucial and non-crucial tokens are identified by their importance scores and merged based on similarity scores. Furthermore, multi-scale features are exploited to represent images, which are fused prior to token pruning to produce richer feature representations. Importantly, our method can be seamlessly integrated with various ViTs, enhancing their adaptability. Experimental evidence substantiates the efficacy of our approach in reducing the influence of token pruning on model performance. For instance, on the ImageNet dataset, it achieves a remarkable 33% reduction in computational costs while only incurring a 0.1% decrease in accuracy on DeiT-S. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Understanding Masked Autoencoders via Hierarchical Latent Variable  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04898  
**Abstract:** Masked autoencoder (MAE), a simple and effective self-supervised learning framework based on the reconstruction of masked image regions, has recently achieved prominent success in a variety of vision tasks. Despite the emergence of intriguing empirical observations on MAE, a theoretically principled understanding is still lacking. In this work, we formally characterize and justify existing empirical insights and provide theoretical guarantees of MAE. We formulate the underlying data-generating process as a hierarchical latent variable model and show that under reasonable assumptions, MAE provably identifies a set of latent variables in the hierarchical model, explaining why MAE can extract high-level information from pixels. Further, we show how key hyperparameters in MAE (the masking ratio and the patch size) determine which true latent variables to be recovered, therefore influencing the level of semantic information in the representation. Specifically, extremely large or small masking ratios inevitably lead to low-level representations. Our theory offers coherent explanations of existing empirical observations and provides insights for potential empirical improvements and fundamental limitations of the masking-reconstruction paradigm. We conduct extensive experiments to validate our theoretical insights. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** NOWJ at COLIEE 2023 -- Multi-Task and Ensemble Approaches in Legal  Information Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04903  
**Abstract:** This paper presents the NOWJ team's approach to the COLIEE 2023 Competition, which focuses on advancing legal information processing techniques and applying them to real-world legal scenarios. Our team tackles the four tasks in the competition, which involve legal case retrieval, legal case entailment, statute law retrieval, and legal textual entailment. We employ state-of-the-art machine learning models and innovative approaches, such as BERT, Longformer, BM25-ranking algorithm, and multi-task learning models. Although our team did not achieve state-of-the-art results, our findings provide valuable insights and pave the way for future improvements in legal information processing. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Flow-based Network Intrusion Detection Based on BERT Masked Language  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04920  
**Abstract:** A Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) is an important tool that identifies potential threats to a network. Recently, different flow-based NIDS designs utilizing Machine Learning (ML) algorithms have been proposed as potential solutions to detect intrusions efficiently. However, conventional ML-based classifiers have not seen widespread adoption in the real-world due to their poor domain adaptation capability. In this research, our goal is to explore the possibility of improve the domain adaptation capability of NIDS. Our proposal employs Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques and Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) framework. The proposed method achieved positive results when tested on data from different domains. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Prefer to Classify: Improving Text Classifiers via Auxiliary Preference  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04925  
**Abstract:** The development of largely human-annotated benchmarks has driven the success of deep neural networks in various NLP tasks. To enhance the effectiveness of existing benchmarks, collecting new additional input-output pairs is often too costly and challenging, particularly considering their marginal impact on improving the current model accuracy. Instead, additional or complementary annotations on the existing input texts in the benchmarks can be preferable as an efficient way to pay the additional human cost. In this paper, we investigate task-specific preferences between pairs of input texts as a new alternative way for such auxiliary data annotation. From 'pair-wise' comparisons with respect to the task, the auxiliary preference learning enables the model to learn an additional informative training signal that cannot be captured with 'instance-wise' task labels. To this end, we propose a novel multi-task learning framework, called prefer-to-classify (P2C), which can enjoy the cooperative effect of learning both the given classification task and the auxiliary preferences. Here, we provide three different ways to collect preference signals in practice: (a) implicitly extracting from annotation records (for free, but often unavailable), (b) collecting explicitly from crowd workers (high paid), or (c) pre-trained large language models such as GPT-3 (low paid). Given existing classification NLP benchmarks, we demonstrate that the proposed auxiliary preference learning via P2C on them is effective in improving text classifiers. Our codes are publicly available. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** covLLM: Large Language Models for COVID-19 Biomedical Literature  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04926  
**Abstract:** The COVID-19 pandemic led to 1.1 million deaths in the United States, despite the explosion of coronavirus research. These new findings are slow to translate to clinical interventions, leading to poorer patient outcomes and unnecessary deaths. One reason is that clinicians, overwhelmed by patients, struggle to keep pace with the rate of new coronavirus literature. A potential solution is developing a tool for evaluating coronavirus literature using large language models (LLMs) -- neural networks that are deployed for natural language processing. LLMs can be used to summarize and extract user-specified information. The greater availability and advancement of LLMs and pre-processed coronavirus literature databases provide the opportunity to assist clinicians in evaluating coronavirus literature through a coronavirus literature specific LLM (covLLM), a tool that directly takes an inputted research article and a user query to return an answer. Using the COVID-19 Open Research Dataset (CORD-19), we produced two datasets: (1) synCovid, which uses a combination of handwritten prompts and synthetic prompts generated using OpenAI, and (2) real abstracts, which contains abstract and title pairs. covLLM was trained with LLaMA 7B as a baseline model to produce three models trained on (1) the Alpaca and synCovid datasets, (2) the synCovid dataset, and (3) the synCovid and real abstract datasets. These models were evaluated by two human evaluators and ChatGPT. Results demonstrate that training covLLM on the synCovid and abstract pairs datasets performs competitively with ChatGPT and outperforms covLLM trained primarily using the Alpaca dataset. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** An Efficient Transformer for Simultaneous Learning of BEV and Lane  Representations in 3D Lane Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04927  
**Abstract:** Accurately detecting lane lines in 3D space is crucial for autonomous driving. Existing methods usually first transform image-view features into bird-eye-view (BEV) by aid of inverse perspective mapping (IPM), and then detect lane lines based on the BEV features. However, IPM ignores the changes in road height, leading to inaccurate view transformations. Additionally, the two separate stages of the process can cause cumulative errors and increased complexity. To address these limitations, we propose an efficient transformer for 3D lane detection. Different from the vanilla transformer, our model contains a decomposed cross-attention mechanism to simultaneously learn lane and BEV representations. The mechanism decomposes the cross-attention between image-view and BEV features into the one between image-view and lane features, and the one between lane and BEV features, both of which are supervised with ground-truth lane lines. Our method obtains 2D and 3D lane predictions by applying the lane features to the image-view and BEV features, respectively. This allows for a more accurate view transformation than IPM-based methods, as the view transformation is learned from data with a supervised cross-attention. Additionally, the cross-attention between lane and BEV features enables them to adjust to each other, resulting in more accurate lane detection than the two separate stages. Finally, the decomposed cross-attention is more efficient than the original one. Experimental results on OpenLane and ONCE-3DLanes demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our method. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** FedMLSecurity: A Benchmark for Attacks and Defenses in Federated  Learning and LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04959  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces FedMLSecurity, a benchmark that simulates adversarial attacks and corresponding defense mechanisms in Federated Learning (FL). As an integral module of the open-sourced library FedML that facilitates FL algorithm development and performance comparison, FedMLSecurity enhances the security assessment capacity of FedML. FedMLSecurity comprises two principal components: FedMLAttacker, which simulates attacks injected into FL training, and FedMLDefender, which emulates defensive strategies designed to mitigate the impacts of the attacks. FedMLSecurity is open-sourced 1 and is customizable to a wide range of machine learning models (e.g., Logistic Regression, ResNet, GAN, etc.) and federated optimizers (e.g., FedAVG, FedOPT, FedNOVA, etc.). Experimental evaluations in this paper also demonstrate the ease of application of FedMLSecurity to Large Language Models (LLMs), further reinforcing its versatility and practical utility in various scenarios. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Leveraging Language Identification to Enhance Code-Mixed Text  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04964  
**Abstract:** The usage of more than one language in the same text is referred to as Code Mixed. It is evident that there is a growing degree of adaption of the use of code-mixed data, especially English with a regional language, on social media platforms. Existing deep-learning models do not take advantage of the implicit language information in the code-mixed text. Our study aims to improve BERT-based models performance on low-resource Code-Mixed Hindi-English Datasets by experimenting with language augmentation approaches. We propose a pipeline to improve code-mixed systems that comprise data preprocessing, word-level language identification, language augmentation, and model training on downstream tasks like sentiment analysis. For language augmentation in BERT models, we explore word-level interleaving and post-sentence placement of language information. We have examined the performance of vanilla BERT-based models and their code-mixed HingBERT counterparts on respective benchmark datasets, comparing their results with and without using word-level language information. The models were evaluated using metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. Our findings show that the proposed language augmentation approaches work well across different BERT models. We demonstrate the importance of augmenting code-mixed text with language information on five different code-mixed Hindi-English downstream datasets based on sentiment analysis, hate speech detection, and emotion detection. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Assessing Phrase Break of ESL Speech with Pre-trained Language Models  and Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04980  
**Abstract:** This work introduces approaches to assessing phrase breaks in ESL learners' speech using pre-trained language models (PLMs) and large language models (LLMs). There are two tasks: overall assessment of phrase break for a speech clip and fine-grained assessment of every possible phrase break position. To leverage NLP models, speech input is first force-aligned with texts, and then pre-processed into a token sequence, including words and phrase break information. To utilize PLMs, we propose a pre-training and fine-tuning pipeline with the processed tokens. This process includes pre-training with a replaced break token detection module and fine-tuning with text classification and sequence labeling. To employ LLMs, we design prompts for ChatGPT. The experiments show that with the PLMs, the dependence on labeled training data has been greatly reduced, and the performance has improved. Meanwhile, we verify that ChatGPT, a renowned LLM, has potential for further advancement in this area. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Multi-Architecture Multi-Expert Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04990  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have achieved impressive results in generating diverse and realistic data by employing multi-step denoising processes. However, the need for accommodating significant variations in input noise at each time-step has led to diffusion models requiring a large number of parameters for their denoisers. We have observed that diffusion models effectively act as filters for different frequency ranges at each time-step noise. While some previous works have introduced multi-expert strategies, assigning denoisers to different noise intervals, they overlook the importance of specialized operations for high and low frequencies. For instance, self-attention operations are effective at handling low-frequency components (low-pass filters), while convolutions excel at capturing high-frequency features (high-pass filters). In other words, existing diffusion models employ denoisers with the same architecture, without considering the optimal operations for each time-step noise. To address this limitation, we propose a novel approach called Multi-architecturE Multi-Expert (MEME), which consists of multiple experts with specialized architectures tailored to the operations required at each time-step interval. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that MEME outperforms large competitors in terms of both generation performance and computational efficiency. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Multi-level Multiple Instance Learning with Transformer for Whole Slide  Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05029  
**Abstract:** Whole slide image (WSI) refers to a type of high-resolution scanned tissue image, which is extensively employed in computer-assisted diagnosis (CAD). The extremely high resolution and limited availability of region-level annotations make it challenging to employ deep learning methods for WSI-based digital diagnosis. Multiple instance learning (MIL) is a powerful tool to address the weak annotation problem, while Transformer has shown great success in the field of visual tasks. The combination of both should provide new insights for deep learning based image diagnosis. However, due to the limitations of single-level MIL and the attention mechanism's constraints on sequence length, directly applying Transformer to WSI-based MIL tasks is not practical. To tackle this issue, we propose a Multi-level MIL with Transformer (MMIL-Transformer) approach. By introducing a hierarchical structure to MIL, this approach enables efficient handling of MIL tasks that involve a large number of instances. To validate its effectiveness, we conducted a set of experiments on WSIs classification task, where MMIL-Transformer demonstrate superior performance compared to existing state-of-the-art methods. Our proposed approach achieves test AUC 94.74% and test accuracy 93.41% on CAMELYON16 dataset, test AUC 99.04% and test accuracy 94.37% on TCGA-NSCLC dataset, respectively. All code and pre-trained models are available at: https://github.com/hustvl/MMIL-Transformer 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Scalable and Adaptive Log-based Anomaly Detection with Expert in the  Loop  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05032  
**Abstract:** System logs play a critical role in maintaining the reliability of software systems. Fruitful studies have explored automatic log-based anomaly detection and achieved notable accuracy on benchmark datasets. However, when applied to large-scale cloud systems, these solutions face limitations due to high resource consumption and lack of adaptability to evolving logs. In this paper, we present an accurate, lightweight, and adaptive log-based anomaly detection framework, referred to as SeaLog. Our method introduces a Trie-based Detection Agent (TDA) that employs a lightweight, dynamically-growing trie structure for real-time anomaly detection. To enhance TDA's accuracy in response to evolving log data, we enable it to receive feedback from experts. Interestingly, our findings suggest that contemporary large language models, such as ChatGPT, can provide feedback with a level of consistency comparable to human experts, which can potentially reduce manual verification efforts. We extensively evaluate SeaLog on two public datasets and an industrial dataset. The results show that SeaLog outperforms all baseline methods in terms of effectiveness, runs 2X to 10X faster and only consumes 5% to 41% of the memory resource. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Cash, Credibility, and Conversion: The Influence of Synthetic Media on  Investment Behavior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05033  
**Abstract:** Prior to November of 2022, the topic of synthetic media was largely buried within academic journals, constrained to conversations about national security, and often fundamentally misunderstood. The release of ChatGPT, however, has accelerated discourse on the societal impacts of synthetic media. This study first highlights several gaps within existing literature on synthetic media, structuring the impact potential and limitations of synthetic media threats within a theoretical framework. Second, it identifies financial information environments as prime candidates for future disruption via synthetic text modalities, proposing an experimental survey for measuring the influential power of synthetic financial text on global investment communities. Rather than merely assessing the ability of survey participants to distinguish genuine from synthetic text, the experiment contained within this study measures synthetic media influence by observing its ability to manipulate belief via a series of behavioral variables. The results indicate that synthetic text can significantly shift investor sentiment away from what it might otherwise have been under truthful information conditions. Furthermore, synthetic financial text demonstrated a unique ability to "convert" investors, inspiring extreme changes in outlook about a company compared to genuine financial texts. This trend should inspire concern within the global financial community, particularly given the historical vulnerability of equity markets to investor sentiment shocks. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Does Long-Term Series Forecasting Need Complex Attention and Extra Long  Inputs?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05035  
**Abstract:** As Transformer-based models have achieved impressive performance on various time series tasks, Long-Term Series Forecasting (LTSF) tasks have also received extensive attention in recent years. However, due to the inherent computational complexity and long sequences demanding of Transformer-based methods, its application on LTSF tasks still has two major issues that need to be further investigated: 1) Whether the sparse attention mechanism designed by these methods actually reduce the running time on real devices; 2) Whether these models need extra long input sequences to guarantee their performance? The answers given in this paper are negative. Therefore, to better copy with these two issues, we design a lightweight Period-Attention mechanism (Periodformer), which renovates the aggregation of long-term subseries via explicit periodicity and short-term subseries via built-in proximity. Meanwhile, a gating mechanism is embedded into Periodformer to regulate the influence of the attention module on the prediction results. Furthermore, to take full advantage of GPUs for fast hyperparameter optimization (e.g., finding the suitable input length), a Multi-GPU Asynchronous parallel algorithm based on Bayesian Optimization (MABO) is presented. MABO allocates a process to each GPU via a queue mechanism, and then creates multiple trials at a time for asynchronous parallel search, which greatly reduces the search time. Compared with the state-of-the-art methods, the prediction error of Periodformer reduced by 13% and 26% for multivariate and univariate forecasting, respectively. In addition, MABO reduces the average search time by 46% while finding better hyperparameters. As a conclusion, this paper indicates that LTSF may not need complex attention and extra long input sequences. The source code will be open source on Github. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Mapping the Challenges of HCI: An Application and Evaluation of ChatGPT  and GPT-4 for Cost-Efficient Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05036  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, are gaining wide-spread real world use. Yet, the two LLMs are closed source, and little is known about the LLMs' performance in real-world use cases. In academia, LLM performance is often measured on benchmarks which may have leaked into ChatGPT's and GPT-4's training data. In this paper, we apply and evaluate ChatGPT and GPT-4 for the real-world task of cost-efficient extractive question answering over a text corpus that was published after the two LLMs completed training. More specifically, we extract research challenges for researchers in the field of HCI from the proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI). We critically evaluate the LLMs on this practical task and conclude that the combination of ChatGPT and GPT-4 makes an excellent cost-efficient means for analyzing a text corpus at scale. Cost-efficiency is key for prototyping research ideas and analyzing text corpora from different perspectives, with implications for applying LLMs in academia and practice. For researchers in HCI, we contribute an interactive visualization of 4392 research challenges in over 90 research topics. We share this visualization and the dataset in the spirit of open science. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Non-autoregressive Conditional Diffusion Models for Time Series  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05043  
**Abstract:** Recently, denoising diffusion models have led to significant breakthroughs in the generation of images, audio and text. However, it is still an open question on how to adapt their strong modeling ability to model time series. In this paper, we propose TimeDiff, a non-autoregressive diffusion model that achieves high-quality time series prediction with the introduction of two novel conditioning mechanisms: future mixup and autoregressive initialization. Similar to teacher forcing, future mixup allows parts of the ground-truth future predictions for conditioning, while autoregressive initialization helps better initialize the model with basic time series patterns such as short-term trends. Extensive experiments are performed on nine real-world datasets. Results show that TimeDiff consistently outperforms existing time series diffusion models, and also achieves the best overall performance across a variety of the existing strong baselines (including transformers and FiLM). 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Improving Visual Prompt Tuning for Self-supervised Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05067  
**Abstract:** Visual Prompt Tuning (VPT) is an effective tuning method for adapting pretrained Vision Transformers (ViTs) to downstream tasks. It leverages extra learnable tokens, known as prompts, which steer the frozen pretrained ViTs. Although VPT has demonstrated its applicability with supervised vision transformers, it often underperforms with self-supervised ones. Through empirical observations, we deduce that the effectiveness of VPT hinges largely on the ViT blocks with which the prompt tokens interact. Specifically, VPT shows improved performance on image classification tasks for MAE and MoCo v3 when the prompt tokens are inserted into later blocks rather than the first block. These observations suggest that there exists an optimal location of blocks for the insertion of prompt tokens. Unfortunately, identifying the optimal blocks for prompts within each self-supervised ViT for diverse future scenarios is a costly process. To mitigate this problem, we propose a simple yet effective method that learns a gate for each ViT block to adjust its intervention into the prompt tokens. With our method, prompt tokens are selectively influenced by blocks that require steering for task adaptation. Our method outperforms VPT variants in FGVC and VTAB image classification and ADE20K semantic segmentation. The code is available at https://github.com/ryongithub/GatedPromptTuning. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** LCT-1 at SemEval-2023 Task 10: Pre-training and Multi-task Learning for  Sexism Detection and Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05075  
**Abstract:** Misogyny and sexism are growing problems in social media. Advances have been made in online sexism detection but the systems are often uninterpretable. SemEval-2023 Task 10 on Explainable Detection of Online Sexism aims at increasing explainability of the sexism detection, and our team participated in all the proposed subtasks. Our system is based on further domain-adaptive pre-training (Gururangan et al., 2020). Building on the Transformer-based models with the domain adaptation, we compare fine-tuning with multi-task learning and show that each subtask requires a different system configuration. In our experiments, multi-task learning performs on par with standard fine-tuning for sexism detection and noticeably better for coarse-grained sexism classification, while fine-tuning is preferable for fine-grained classification. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** PandaLM: An Automatic Evaluation Benchmark for LLM Instruction Tuning  Optimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05087  
**Abstract:** Instruction tuning large language models (LLMs) remains a challenging task, owing to the complexity of hyperparameter selection and the difficulty involved in evaluating the tuned models. To determine the optimal hyperparameters, an automatic, robust, and reliable evaluation benchmark is essential. However, establishing such a benchmark is not a trivial task due to the challenges associated with evaluation accuracy and privacy protection. In response to these challenges, we introduce a judge large language model, named PandaLM, which is trained to distinguish the superior model given several LLMs. PandaLM's focus extends beyond just the objective correctness of responses, which is the main focus of traditional evaluation datasets. It addresses vital subjective factors such as relative conciseness, clarity, adherence to instructions, comprehensiveness, and formality. To ensure the reliability of PandaLM, we collect a diverse human-annotated test dataset, where all contexts are generated by humans and labels are aligned with human preferences. Our results indicate that PandaLM-7B achieves 93.75% of GPT-3.5's evaluation ability and 88.28% of GPT-4's in terms of F1-score on our test dataset. PandaLM enables the evaluation of LLM to be fairer but with less cost, evidenced by significant improvements achieved by models tuned through PandaLM compared to their counterparts trained with default Alpaca's hyperparameters. In addition, PandaLM does not depend on API-based evaluations, thus avoiding potential data leakage. All resources of PandaLM are released at https://github.com/WeOpenML/PandaLM. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Closing the Loop: Testing ChatGPT to Generate Model Explanations to  Improve Human Labelling of Sponsored Content on Social Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05115  
**Abstract:** Regulatory bodies worldwide are intensifying their efforts to ensure transparency in influencer marketing on social media through instruments like the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive (UCPD) in the European Union, or Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. Yet enforcing these obligations has proven to be highly problematic due to the sheer scale of the influencer market. The task of automatically detecting sponsored content aims to enable the monitoring and enforcement of such regulations at scale. Current research in this field primarily frames this problem as a machine learning task, focusing on developing models that achieve high classification performance in detecting ads. These machine learning tasks rely on human data annotation to provide ground truth information. However, agreement between annotators is often low, leading to inconsistent labels that hinder the reliability of models. To improve annotation accuracy and, thus, the detection of sponsored content, we propose using chatGPT to augment the annotation process with phrases identified as relevant features and brief explanations. Our experiments show that this approach consistently improves inter-annotator agreement and annotation accuracy. Additionally, our survey of user experience in the annotation task indicates that the explanations improve the annotators' confidence and streamline the process. Our proposed methods can ultimately lead to more transparency and alignment with regulatory requirements in sponsored content detection. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Can AI Moderate Online Communities?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05122  
**Abstract:** The task of cultivating healthy communication in online communities becomes increasingly urgent, as gaming and social media experiences become progressively more immersive and life-like. We approach the challenge of moderating online communities by training student models using a large language model (LLM). We use zero-shot learning models to distill and expand datasets followed by a few-shot learning and a fine-tuning approach, leveraging open-access generative pre-trained transformer models (GPT) from OpenAI. Our preliminary findings suggest, that when properly trained, LLMs can excel in identifying actor intentions, moderating toxic comments, and rewarding positive contributions. The student models perform above-expectation in non-contextual assignments such as identifying classically toxic behavior and perform sufficiently on contextual assignments such as identifying positive contributions to online discourse. Further, using open-access models like OpenAI's GPT we experience a step-change in the development process for what has historically been a complex modeling task. We contribute to the information system (IS) discourse with a rapid development framework on the application of generative AI in content online moderation and management of culture in decentralized, pseudonymous communities by providing a sample model suite of industrial-ready generative AI models based on open-access LLMs. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** A Meta-Generation framework for Industrial System Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05123  
**Abstract:** Generative design is an increasingly important tool in the industrial world. It allows the designers and engineers to easily explore vast ranges of design options, providing a cheaper and faster alternative to the trial and failure approaches. Thanks to the flexibility they offer, Deep Generative Models are gaining popularity amongst Generative Design technologies. However, developing and evaluating these models can be challenging. The field lacks accessible benchmarks, in order to evaluate and compare objectively different Deep Generative Models architectures. Moreover, vanilla Deep Generative Models appear to be unable to accurately generate multi-components industrial systems that are controlled by latent design constraints. To address these challenges, we propose an industry-inspired use case that incorporates actual industrial system characteristics. This use case can be quickly generated and used as a benchmark. We propose a Meta-VAE capable of producing multi-component industrial systems and showcase its application on the proposed use case. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Genomic Interpreter: A Hierarchical Genomic Deep Neural Network with 1D  Shifted Window Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05143  
**Abstract:** Given the increasing volume and quality of genomics data, extracting new insights requires interpretable machine-learning models. This work presents Genomic Interpreter: a novel architecture for genomic assay prediction. This model outperforms the state-of-the-art models for genomic assay prediction tasks. Our model can identify hierarchical dependencies in genomic sites. This is achieved through the integration of 1D-Swin, a novel Transformer-based block designed by us for modelling long-range hierarchical data. Evaluated on a dataset containing 38,171 DNA segments of 17K base pairs, Genomic Interpreter demonstrates superior performance in chromatin accessibility and gene expression prediction and unmasks the underlying `syntax' of gene regulation. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Human Action Recognition in Egocentric Perspective Using 2D Object and  Hands Pose  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05147  
**Abstract:** Egocentric action recognition is essential for healthcare and assistive technology that relies on egocentric cameras because it allows for the automatic and continuous monitoring of activities of daily living (ADLs) without requiring any conscious effort from the user. This study explores the feasibility of using 2D hand and object pose information for egocentric action recognition. While current literature focuses on 3D hand pose information, our work shows that using 2D skeleton data is a promising approach for hand-based action classification, might offer privacy enhancement, and could be less computationally demanding. The study uses a state-of-the-art transformer-based method to classify sequences and achieves validation results of 94%, outperforming other existing solutions. The accuracy of the test subset drops to 76%, indicating the need for further generalization improvement. This research highlights the potential of 2D hand and object pose information for action recognition tasks and offers a promising alternative to 3D-based methods. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Large-scale Dataset Pruning with Dynamic Uncertainty  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05175  
**Abstract:** The state of the art of many learning tasks, e.g., image classification, is advanced by collecting larger datasets and then training larger models on them. As the outcome, the increasing computational cost is becoming unaffordable. In this paper, we investigate how to prune the large-scale datasets, and thus produce an informative subset for training sophisticated deep models with negligible performance drop. We propose a simple yet effective dataset pruning method by exploring both the prediction uncertainty and training dynamics. To our knowledge, this is the first work to study dataset pruning on large-scale datasets, i.e., ImageNet-1K and ImageNet-21K, and advanced models, i.e., Swin Transformer and ConvNeXt. Extensive experimental results indicate that our method outperforms the state of the art and achieves 75% lossless compression ratio on both ImageNet-1K and ImageNet-21K. The code and pruned datasets are available at https://github.com/BAAI-DCAI/Dataset-Pruning. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** RRWKV: Capturing Long-range Dependencies in RWKV  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05176  
**Abstract:** Owing to the impressive dot-product attention, the Transformers have been the dominant architectures in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Recently, the Receptance Weighted Key Value (RWKV) architecture follows a non-transformer architecture to eliminate the drawbacks of dot-product attention, where memory and computational complexity exhibits quadratic scaling with sequence length. Although RWKV has exploited a linearly tensor-product attention mechanism and achieved parallelized computations by deploying the time-sequential mode, it fails to capture long-range dependencies because of its limitation on looking back at previous information, compared with full information obtained by direct interactions in the standard transformer. Therefore, the paper devises the Retrospected Receptance Weighted Key Value (RRWKV) architecture via incorporating the retrospecting ability into the RWKV to effectively absorb information, which maintains memory and computational efficiency as well. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** SyncDiffusion: Coherent Montage via Synchronized Joint Diffusions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05178  
**Abstract:** The remarkable capabilities of pretrained image diffusion models have been utilized not only for generating fixed-size images but also for creating panoramas. However, naive stitching of multiple images often results in visible seams. Recent techniques have attempted to address this issue by performing joint diffusions in multiple windows and averaging latent features in overlapping regions. However, these approaches, which focus on seamless montage generation, often yield incoherent outputs by blending different scenes within a single image. To overcome this limitation, we propose SyncDiffusion, a plug-and-play module that synchronizes multiple diffusions through gradient descent from a perceptual similarity loss. Specifically, we compute the gradient of the perceptual loss using the predicted denoised images at each denoising step, providing meaningful guidance for achieving coherent montages. Our experimental results demonstrate that our method produces significantly more coherent outputs compared to previous methods (66.35% vs. 33.65% in our user study) while still maintaining fidelity (as assessed by GIQA) and compatibility with the input prompt (as measured by CLIP score). 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** M3Exam: A Multilingual, Multimodal, Multilevel Benchmark for Examining  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05179  
**Abstract:** Despite the existence of various benchmarks for evaluating natural language processing models, we argue that human exams are a more suitable means of evaluating general intelligence for large language models (LLMs), as they inherently demand a much wider range of abilities such as language understanding, domain knowledge, and problem-solving skills. To this end, we introduce M3Exam, a novel benchmark sourced from real and official human exam questions for evaluating LLMs in a multilingual, multimodal, and multilevel context. M3Exam exhibits three unique characteristics: (1) multilingualism, encompassing questions from multiple countries that require strong multilingual proficiency and cultural knowledge; (2) multimodality, accounting for the multimodal nature of many exam questions to test the model's multimodal understanding capability; and (3) multilevel structure, featuring exams from three critical educational periods to comprehensively assess a model's proficiency at different levels. In total, M3Exam contains 12,317 questions in 9 diverse languages with three educational levels, where about 23\% of the questions require processing images for successful solving. We assess the performance of top-performing LLMs on M3Exam and find that current models, including GPT-4, still struggle with multilingual text, particularly in low-resource and non-Latin script languages. Multimodal LLMs also perform poorly with complex multimodal questions. We believe that M3Exam can be a valuable resource for comprehensively evaluating LLMs by examining their multilingual and multimodal abilities and tracking their development. Data and evaluation code is available at \url{https://github.com/DAMO-NLP-SG/M3Exam}. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Interactive Fashion Content Generation Using LLMs and Latent Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05182  
**Abstract:** Fashionable image generation aims to synthesize images of diverse fashion prevalent around the globe, helping fashion designers in real-time visualization by giving them a basic customized structure of how a specific design preference would look in real life and what further improvements can be made for enhanced customer satisfaction. Moreover, users can alone interact and generate fashionable images by just giving a few simple prompts. Recently, diffusion models have gained popularity as generative models owing to their flexibility and generation of realistic images from Gaussian noise. Latent diffusion models are a type of generative model that use diffusion processes to model the generation of complex data, such as images, audio, or text. They are called "latent" because they learn a hidden representation, or latent variable, of the data that captures its underlying structure. We propose a method exploiting the equivalence between diffusion models and energy-based models (EBMs) and suggesting ways to compose multiple probability distributions. We describe a pipeline on how our method can be used specifically for new fashionable outfit generation and virtual try-on using LLM-guided text-to-image generation. Our results indicate that using an LLM to refine the prompts to the latent diffusion model assists in generating globally creative and culturally diversified fashion styles and reducing bias. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** PriSampler: Mitigating Property Inference of Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05208  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have been remarkably successful in data synthesis. Such successes have also driven diffusion models to apply to sensitive data, such as human face data, but this might bring about severe privacy concerns. In this work, we systematically present the first privacy study about property inference attacks against diffusion models, in which adversaries aim to extract sensitive global properties of the training set from a diffusion model, such as the proportion of the training data for certain sensitive properties. Specifically, we consider the most practical attack scenario: adversaries are only allowed to obtain synthetic data. Under this realistic scenario, we evaluate the property inference attacks on different types of samplers and diffusion models. A broad range of evaluations shows that various diffusion models and their samplers are all vulnerable to property inference attacks. Furthermore, one case study on off-the-shelf pre-trained diffusion models also demonstrates the effectiveness of the attack in practice. Finally, we propose a new model-agnostic plug-in method PriSampler to mitigate the property inference of diffusion models. PriSampler can be directly applied to well-trained diffusion models and support both stochastic and deterministic sampling. Extensive experiments illustrate the effectiveness of our defense and it makes adversaries infer the proportion of properties as close as random guesses. PriSampler also shows its significantly superior performance to diffusion models trained with differential privacy on both model utility and defense performance. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Ownership Protection of Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05233  
**Abstract:** Generative adversarial networks (GANs) have shown remarkable success in image synthesis, making GAN models themselves commercially valuable to legitimate model owners. Therefore, it is critical to technically protect the intellectual property of GANs. Prior works need to tamper with the training set or training process, and they are not robust to emerging model extraction attacks. In this paper, we propose a new ownership protection method based on the common characteristics of a target model and its stolen models. Our method can be directly applicable to all well-trained GANs as it does not require retraining target models. Extensive experimental results show that our new method can achieve the best protection performance, compared to the state-of-the-art methods. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our method with respect to the number of generations of model extraction attacks, the number of generated samples, different datasets, as well as adaptive attacks. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Efficient Multi-Task Scene Analysis with RGB-D Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05242  
**Abstract:** Scene analysis is essential for enabling autonomous systems, such as mobile robots, to operate in real-world environments. However, obtaining a comprehensive understanding of the scene requires solving multiple tasks, such as panoptic segmentation, instance orientation estimation, and scene classification. Solving these tasks given limited computing and battery capabilities on mobile platforms is challenging. To address this challenge, we introduce an efficient multi-task scene analysis approach, called EMSAFormer, that uses an RGB-D Transformer-based encoder to simultaneously perform the aforementioned tasks. Our approach builds upon the previously published EMSANet. However, we show that the dual CNN-based encoder of EMSANet can be replaced with a single Transformer-based encoder. To achieve this, we investigate how information from both RGB and depth data can be effectively incorporated in a single encoder. To accelerate inference on robotic hardware, we provide a custom NVIDIA TensorRT extension enabling highly optimization for our EMSAFormer approach. Through extensive experiments on the commonly used indoor datasets NYUv2, SUNRGB-D, and ScanNet, we show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance while still enabling inference with up to 39.1 FPS on an NVIDIA Jetson AGX Orin 32 GB. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Toward more accurate and generalizable brain deformation estimators for  traumatic brain injury detection with unsupervised domain adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05255  
**Abstract:** Machine learning head models (MLHMs) are developed to estimate brain deformation for early detection of traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, the overfitting to simulated impacts and the lack of generalizability caused by distributional shift of different head impact datasets hinders the broad clinical applications of current MLHMs. We propose brain deformation estimators that integrates unsupervised domain adaptation with a deep neural network to predict whole-brain maximum principal strain (MPS) and MPS rate (MPSR). With 12,780 simulated head impacts, we performed unsupervised domain adaptation on on-field head impacts from 302 college football (CF) impacts and 457 mixed martial arts (MMA) impacts using domain regularized component analysis (DRCA) and cycle-GAN-based methods. The new model improved the MPS/MPSR estimation accuracy, with the DRCA method significantly outperforming other domain adaptation methods in prediction accuracy (p<0.001): MPS RMSE: 0.027 (CF) and 0.037 (MMA); MPSR RMSE: 7.159 (CF) and 13.022 (MMA). On another two hold-out test sets with 195 college football impacts and 260 boxing impacts, the DRCA model significantly outperformed the baseline model without domain adaptation in MPS and MPSR estimation accuracy (p<0.001). The DRCA domain adaptation reduces the MPS/MPSR estimation error to be well below TBI thresholds, enabling accurate brain deformation estimation to detect TBI in future clinical applications. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Unscented Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05256  
**Abstract:** The Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is a seminal approach in deep generative modeling with latent variables. Interpreting its reconstruction process as a nonlinear transformation of samples from the latent posterior distribution, we apply the Unscented Transform (UT) -- a well-known distribution approximation used in the Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) from the field of filtering. A finite set of statistics called sigma points, sampled deterministically, provides a more informative and lower-variance posterior representation than the ubiquitous noise-scaling of the reparameterization trick, while ensuring higher-quality reconstruction. We further boost the performance by replacing the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence with the Wasserstein distribution metric that allows for a sharper posterior. Inspired by the two components, we derive a novel, deterministic-sampling flavor of the VAE, the Unscented Autoencoder (UAE), trained purely with regularization-like terms on the per-sample posterior. We empirically show competitive performance in Fr\'echet Inception Distance (FID) scores over closely-related models, in addition to a lower training variance than the VAE. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Image Clustering via the Principle of Rate Reduction in the Age of  Pretrained Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05272  
**Abstract:** The advent of large pre-trained models has brought about a paradigm shift in both visual representation learning and natural language processing. However, clustering unlabeled images, as a fundamental and classic machine learning problem, still lacks effective solution, particularly for large-scale datasets. In this paper, we propose a novel image clustering pipeline that leverages the powerful feature representation of large pre-trained models such as CLIP and cluster images effectively and efficiently at scale. We show that the pre-trained features are significantly more structured by further optimizing the rate reduction objective. The resulting features may significantly improve the clustering accuracy, e.g., from 57\% to 66\% on ImageNet-1k. Furthermore, by leveraging CLIP's image-text binding, we show how the new clustering method leads to a simple yet effective self-labeling algorithm that successfully works on unlabeled large datasets such as MS-COCO and LAION-Aesthetics. We will release the code in https://github.com/LeslieTrue/CPP. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Extensive Evaluation of Transformer-based Architectures for Adverse Drug  Events Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05276  
**Abstract:** Adverse Event (ADE) extraction is one of the core tasks in digital pharmacovigilance, especially when applied to informal texts. This task has been addressed by the Natural Language Processing community using large pre-trained language models, such as BERT. Despite the great number of Transformer-based architectures used in the literature, it is unclear which of them has better performances and why. Therefore, in this paper we perform an extensive evaluation and analysis of 19 Transformer-based models for ADE extraction on informal texts. We compare the performance of all the considered models on two datasets with increasing levels of informality (forums posts and tweets). We also combine the purely Transformer-based models with two commonly-used additional processing layers (CRF and LSTM), and analyze their effect on the models performance. Furthermore, we use a well-established feature importance technique (SHAP) to correlate the performance of the models with a set of features that describe them: model category (AutoEncoding, AutoRegressive, Text-to-Text), pretraining domain, training from scratch, and model size in number of parameters. At the end of our analyses, we identify a list of take-home messages that can be derived from the experimental data. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Simple and Controllable Music Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05284  
**Abstract:** We tackle the task of conditional music generation. We introduce MusicGen, a single Language Model (LM) that operates over several streams of compressed discrete music representation, i.e., tokens. Unlike prior work, MusicGen is comprised of a single-stage transformer LM together with efficient token interleaving patterns, which eliminates the need for cascading several models, e.g., hierarchically or upsampling. Following this approach, we demonstrate how MusicGen can generate high-quality samples, while being conditioned on textual description or melodic features, allowing better controls over the generated output. We conduct extensive empirical evaluation, considering both automatic and human studies, showing the proposed approach is superior to the evaluated baselines on a standard text-to-music benchmark. Through ablation studies, we shed light over the importance of each of the components comprising MusicGen. Music samples, code, and models are available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/audiocraft. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** ToolAlpaca: Generalized Tool Learning for Language Models with 3000  Simulated Cases  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05301  
**Abstract:** Enabling large language models to effectively utilize real-world tools is crucial for achieving embodied intelligence. Existing approaches to tool learning have primarily relied on either extremely large language models, such as GPT-4, to attain generalized tool-use abilities in a zero-shot manner, or have utilized supervised learning to train limited types of tools on compact models. However, it remains uncertain whether smaller language models can achieve generalized tool-use abilities without specific tool-specific training. To address this question, this paper introduces ToolAlpaca, a novel framework designed to automatically generate a tool-use corpus and learn generalized tool-use abilities on compact language models with minimal human intervention. Specifically, ToolAlpaca first collects a comprehensive dataset by building a multi-agent simulation environment, which contains 3938 tool-use instances from more than 400 real-world tool APIs spanning 50 distinct categories. Subsequently, the constructed corpus is employed to fine-tune compact language models, resulting in two models, namely ToolAlpaca-7B and ToolAlpaca-13B, respectively. Finally, we evaluate the ability of these models to utilize previously unseen tools without specific training. Experimental results demonstrate that ToolAlpaca achieves effective generalized tool-use capabilities comparable to those of extremely large language models like GPT-3.5. This validation supports the notion that learning generalized tool-use abilities is feasible for compact language models. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Enhance-NeRF: Multiple Performance Evaluation for Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05303  
**Abstract:** The quality of three-dimensional reconstruction is a key factor affecting the effectiveness of its application in areas such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate realistic images from any viewpoint. It simultaneously reconstructs the shape, lighting, and materials of objects, and without surface defects, which breaks down the barrier between virtuality and reality. The potential spatial correspondences displayed by NeRF between reconstructed scenes and real-world scenes offer a wide range of practical applications possibilities. Despite significant progress in 3D reconstruction since NeRF were introduced, there remains considerable room for exploration and experimentation. NeRF-based models are susceptible to interference issues caused by colored "fog" noise. Additionally, they frequently encounter instabilities and failures while attempting to reconstruct unbounded scenes. Moreover, the model takes a significant amount of time to converge, making it even more challenging to use in such scenarios. Our approach, coined Enhance-NeRF, which adopts joint color to balance low and high reflectivity objects display, utilizes a decoding architecture with prior knowledge to improve recognition, and employs multi-layer performance evaluation mechanisms to enhance learning capacity. It achieves reconstruction of outdoor scenes within one hour under single-card condition. Based on experimental results, Enhance-NeRF partially enhances fitness capability and provides some support to outdoor scene reconstruction. The Enhance-NeRF method can be used as a plug-and-play component, making it easy to integrate with other NeRF-based models. The code is available at: https://github.com/TANQIanQ/Enhance-NeRF 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** The ADAIO System at the BEA-2023 Shared Task on Generating AI Teacher  Responses in Educational Dialogues  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05360  
**Abstract:** This paper presents the ADAIO team's system entry in the Building Educational Applications (BEA) 2023 Shared Task on Generating AI Teacher Responses in Educational Dialogues. The task aims to assess the performance of state-of-the-art generative models as AI teachers in producing suitable responses within a student-teacher dialogue. Our system comprises evaluating various baseline models using OpenAI GPT-3 and designing diverse prompts to prompt the OpenAI models for teacher response generation. After the challenge, our system achieved second place by employing a few-shot prompt-based approach with the OpenAI text-davinci-003 model. The results highlight the few-shot learning capabilities of large-language models, particularly OpenAI's GPT-3, in the role of AI teachers. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Detecting Human Rights Violations on Social Media during Russia-Ukraine  War  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05370  
**Abstract:** The present-day Russia-Ukraine military conflict has exposed the pivotal role of social media in enabling the transparent and unbridled sharing of information directly from the frontlines. In conflict zones where freedom of expression is constrained and information warfare is pervasive, social media has emerged as an indispensable lifeline. Anonymous social media platforms, as publicly available sources for disseminating war-related information, have the potential to serve as effective instruments for monitoring and documenting Human Rights Violations (HRV). Our research focuses on the analysis of data from Telegram, the leading social media platform for reading independent news in post-Soviet regions. We gathered a dataset of posts sampled from 95 public Telegram channels that cover politics and war news, which we have utilized to identify potential occurrences of HRV. Employing a mBERT-based text classifier, we have conducted an analysis to detect any mentions of HRV in the Telegram data. Our final approach yielded an $F_2$ score of 0.71 for HRV detection, representing an improvement of 0.38 over the multilingual BERT base model. We release two datasets that contains Telegram posts: (1) large corpus with over 2.3 millions posts and (2) annotated at the sentence-level dataset to indicate HRVs. The Telegram posts are in the context of the Russia-Ukraine war. We posit that our findings hold significant implications for NGOs, governments, and researchers by providing a means to detect and document possible human rights violations. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Anomaly Detection in Satellite Videos using Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05376  
**Abstract:** The definition of anomaly detection is the identification of an unexpected event. Real-time detection of extreme events such as wildfires, cyclones, or floods using satellite data has become crucial for disaster management. Although several earth-observing satellites provide information about disasters, satellites in the geostationary orbit provide data at intervals as frequent as every minute, effectively creating a video from space. There are many techniques that have been proposed to identify anomalies in surveillance videos; however, the available datasets do not have dynamic behavior, so we discuss an anomaly framework that can work on very high-frequency datasets to find very fast-moving anomalies. In this work, we present a diffusion model which does not need any motion component to capture the fast-moving anomalies and outperforms the other baseline methods. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Mixture-of-Domain-Adapters: Decoupling and Injecting Domain Knowledge to  Pre-trained Language Models Memories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05406  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained language models (PLMs) demonstrate excellent abilities to understand texts in the generic domain while struggling in a specific domain. Although continued pre-training on a large domain-specific corpus is effective, it is costly to tune all the parameters on the domain. In this paper, we investigate whether we can adapt PLMs both effectively and efficiently by only tuning a few parameters. Specifically, we decouple the feed-forward networks (FFNs) of the Transformer architecture into two parts: the original pre-trained FFNs to maintain the old-domain knowledge and our novel domain-specific adapters to inject domain-specific knowledge in parallel. Then we adopt a mixture-of-adapters gate to fuse the knowledge from different domain adapters dynamically. Our proposed Mixture-of-Domain-Adapters (MixDA) employs a two-stage adapter-tuning strategy that leverages both unlabeled data and labeled data to help the domain adaptation: i) domain-specific adapter on unlabeled data; followed by ii) the task-specific adapter on labeled data. MixDA can be seamlessly plugged into the pretraining-finetuning paradigm and our experiments demonstrate that MixDA achieves superior performance on in-domain tasks (GLUE), out-of-domain tasks (ChemProt, RCT, IMDB, Amazon), and knowledge-intensive tasks (KILT). Further analyses demonstrate the reliability, scalability, and efficiency of our method. The code is available at https://github.com/Amano-Aki/Mixture-of-Domain-Adapters. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** LU-NeRF: Scene and Pose Estimation by Synchronizing Local Unposed NeRFs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05410  
**Abstract:** A critical obstacle preventing NeRF models from being deployed broadly in the wild is their reliance on accurate camera poses. Consequently, there is growing interest in extending NeRF models to jointly optimize camera poses and scene representation, which offers an alternative to off-the-shelf SfM pipelines which have well-understood failure modes. Existing approaches for unposed NeRF operate under limited assumptions, such as a prior pose distribution or coarse pose initialization, making them less effective in a general setting. In this work, we propose a novel approach, LU-NeRF, that jointly estimates camera poses and neural radiance fields with relaxed assumptions on pose configuration. Our approach operates in a local-to-global manner, where we first optimize over local subsets of the data, dubbed mini-scenes. LU-NeRF estimates local pose and geometry for this challenging few-shot task. The mini-scene poses are brought into a global reference frame through a robust pose synchronization step, where a final global optimization of pose and scene can be performed. We show our LU-NeRF pipeline outperforms prior attempts at unposed NeRF without making restrictive assumptions on the pose prior. This allows us to operate in the general SE(3) pose setting, unlike the baselines. Our results also indicate our model can be complementary to feature-based SfM pipelines as it compares favorably to COLMAP on low-texture and low-resolution images. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** R-MAE: Regions Meet Masked Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05411  
**Abstract:** Vision-specific concepts such as "region" have played a key role in extending general machine learning frameworks to tasks like object detection. Given the success of region-based detectors for supervised learning and the progress of intra-image methods for contrastive learning, we explore the use of regions for reconstructive pre-training. Starting from Masked Autoencoding (MAE) both as a baseline and an inspiration, we propose a parallel pre-text task tailored to address the one-to-many mapping between images and regions. Since such regions can be generated in an unsupervised way, our approach (R-MAE) inherits the wide applicability from MAE, while being more "region-aware". We conduct thorough analyses during the development of R-MAE, and converge on a variant that is both effective and efficient (1.3% overhead over MAE). Moreover, it shows consistent quantitative improvements when generalized to various pre-training data and downstream detection and segmentation benchmarks. Finally, we provide extensive qualitative visualizations to enhance the understanding of R-MAE's behaviour and potential. Code will be made available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/r-mae. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Improving Negative-Prompt Inversion via Proximal Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05414  
**Abstract:** DDIM inversion has revealed the remarkable potential of real image editing within diffusion-based methods. However, the accuracy of DDIM reconstruction degrades as larger classifier-free guidance (CFG) scales being used for enhanced editing. Null-text inversion (NTI) optimizes null embeddings to align the reconstruction and inversion trajectories with larger CFG scales, enabling real image editing with cross-attention control. Negative-prompt inversion (NPI) further offers a training-free closed-form solution of NTI. However, it may introduce artifacts and is still constrained by DDIM reconstruction quality. To overcome these limitations, we propose Proximal Negative-Prompt Inversion (ProxNPI), extending the concepts of NTI and NPI. We enhance NPI with a regularization term and reconstruction guidance, which reduces artifacts while capitalizing on its training-free nature. Our method provides an efficient and straightforward approach, effectively addressing real image editing tasks with minimal computational overhead. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** TopoMask: Instance-Mask-Based Formulation for the Road Topology Problem  via Transformer-Based Architecture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05419  
**Abstract:** Driving scene understanding task involves detecting static elements such as lanes, traffic signs, and traffic lights, and their relationships with each other. To facilitate the development of comprehensive scene understanding solutions using multiple camera views, a new dataset called Road Genome (OpenLane-V2) has been released. This dataset allows for the exploration of complex road connections and situations where lane markings may be absent. Instead of using traditional lane markings, the lanes in this dataset are represented by centerlines, which offer a more suitable representation of lanes and their connections. In this study, we have introduced a new approach called TopoMask for predicting centerlines in road topology. Unlike existing approaches in the literature that rely on keypoints or parametric methods, TopoMask utilizes an instance-mask based formulation with a transformer-based architecture and, in order to enrich the mask instances with flow information, a direction label representation is proposed. TopoMask have ranked 4th in the OpenLane-V2 Score (OLS) and ranked 2nd in the F1 score of centerline prediction in OpenLane Topology Challenge 2023. In comparison to the current state-of-the-art method, TopoNet, the proposed method has achieved similar performance in Frechet-based lane detection and outperformed TopoNet in Chamfer-based lane detection without utilizing its scene graph neural network. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Stochastic Multi-Person 3D Motion Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05421  
**Abstract:** This paper aims to deal with the ignored real-world complexities in prior work on human motion forecasting, emphasizing the social properties of multi-person motion, the diversity of motion and social interactions, and the complexity of articulated motion. To this end, we introduce a novel task of stochastic multi-person 3D motion forecasting. We propose a dual-level generative modeling framework that separately models independent individual motion at the local level and social interactions at the global level. Notably, this dual-level modeling mechanism can be achieved within a shared generative model, through introducing learnable latent codes that represent intents of future motion and switching the codes' modes of operation at different levels. Our framework is general; we instantiate it with different generative models, including generative adversarial networks and diffusion models, and various multi-person forecasting models. Extensive experiments on CMU-Mocap, MuPoTS-3D, and SoMoF benchmarks show that our approach produces diverse and accurate multi-person predictions, significantly outperforming the state of the art. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** ADDP: Learning General Representations for Image Recognition and  Generation with Alternating Denoising Diffusion Process  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05423  
**Abstract:** Image recognition and generation have long been developed independently of each other. With the recent trend towards general-purpose representation learning, the development of general representations for both recognition and generation tasks is also promoted. However, preliminary attempts mainly focus on generation performance, but are still inferior on recognition tasks. These methods are modeled in the vector-quantized (VQ) space, whereas leading recognition methods use pixels as inputs. Our key insights are twofold: (1) pixels as inputs are crucial for recognition tasks; (2) VQ tokens as reconstruction targets are beneficial for generation tasks. These observations motivate us to propose an Alternating Denoising Diffusion Process (ADDP) that integrates these two spaces within a single representation learning framework. In each denoising step, our method first decodes pixels from previous VQ tokens, then generates new VQ tokens from the decoded pixels. The diffusion process gradually masks out a portion of VQ tokens to construct the training samples. The learned representations can be used to generate diverse high-fidelity images and also demonstrate excellent transfer performance on recognition tasks. Extensive experiments show that our method achieves competitive performance on unconditional generation, ImageNet classification, COCO detection, and ADE20k segmentation. Importantly, our method represents the first successful development of general representations applicable to both generation and dense recognition tasks. Code shall be released. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Video-ChatGPT: Towards Detailed Video Understanding via Large Vision and  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05424  
**Abstract:** Conversation agents fueled by Large Language Models (LLMs) are providing a new way to interact with visual data. While there have been initial attempts for image-based conversation models, this work addresses the underexplored field of video-based conversation by introducing Video-ChatGPT. It is a multimodal model that merges a video-adapted visual encoder with a LLM. The model is capable of understanding and generating human-like conversations about videos. We introduce a new dataset of 100,000 video-instruction pairs used to train Video-ChatGPT acquired via manual and semi-automated pipeline that is easily scalable and robust to label noise. We also develop a quantiative evaluation framework for video-based dialogue models to objectively analyse the strengths and weaknesses of proposed models. Our code, models, instruction-sets and demo are released at https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/Video-ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** MIMIC-IT: Multi-Modal In-Context Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05425  
**Abstract:** High-quality instructions and responses are essential for the zero-shot performance of large language models on interactive natural language tasks. For interactive vision-language tasks involving intricate visual scenes, a large quantity of diverse and creative instruction-response pairs should be imperative to tune vision-language models (VLMs). Nevertheless, the current availability of vision-language instruction-response pairs in terms of quantity, diversity, and creativity remains limited, posing challenges to the generalization of interactive VLMs. Here we present MultI-Modal In-Context Instruction Tuning (MIMIC-IT), a dataset comprising 2.8 million multimodal instruction-response pairs, with 2.2 million unique instructions derived from images and videos. Each pair is accompanied by multi-modal in-context information, forming conversational contexts aimed at empowering VLMs in perception, reasoning, and planning. The instruction-response collection process, dubbed as Syphus, is scaled using an automatic annotation pipeline that combines human expertise with GPT's capabilities. Using the MIMIC-IT dataset, we train a large VLM named Otter. Based on extensive evaluations conducted on vision-language benchmarks, it has been observed that Otter demonstrates remarkable proficiency in multi-modal perception, reasoning, and in-context learning. Human evaluation reveals it effectively aligns with the user's intentions. We release the MIMIC-IT dataset, instruction-response collection pipeline, benchmarks, and the Otter model. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Grounded Text-to-Image Synthesis with Attention Refocusing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05427  
**Abstract:** Driven by scalable diffusion models trained on large-scale paired text-image datasets, text-to-image synthesis methods have shown compelling results. However, these models still fail to precisely follow the text prompt when multiple objects, attributes, and spatial compositions are involved in the prompt. In this paper, we identify the potential reasons in both the cross-attention and self-attention layers of the diffusion model. We propose two novel losses to refocus the attention maps according to a given layout during the sampling process. We perform comprehensive experiments on the DrawBench and HRS benchmarks using layouts synthesized by Large Language Models, showing that our proposed losses can be integrated easily and effectively into existing text-to-image methods and consistently improve their alignment between the generated images and the text prompts. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Mathematics-assisted directed evolution and protein engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.04658  
**Abstract:** Directed evolution is a molecular biology technique that is transforming protein engineering by creating proteins with desirable properties and functions. However, it is experimentally impossible to perform the deep mutational scanning of the entire protein library due to the enormous mutational space, which scales as $20^N$ , where N is the number of amino acids. This has led to the rapid growth of AI-assisted directed evolution (AIDE) or AI-assisted protein engineering (AIPE) as an emerging research field. Aided with advanced natural language processing (NLP) techniques, including long short-term memory, autoencoder, and transformer, sequence-based embeddings have been dominant approaches in AIDE and AIPE. Persistent Laplacians, an emerging technique in topological data analysis (TDA), have made structure-based embeddings a superb option in AIDE and AIPE. We argue that a class of persistent topological Laplacians (PTLs), including persistent Laplacians, persistent path Laplacians, persistent sheaf Laplacians, persistent hypergraph Laplacians, persistent hyperdigraph Laplacians, and evolutionary de Rham-Hodge theory, can effectively overcome the limitations of the current TDA and offer a new generation of more powerful TDA approaches. In the general framework of topological deep learning, mathematics-assisted directed evolution (MADE) has a great potential for future protein engineering. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Sequence-to-Sequence Model with Transformer-based Attention Mechanism  and Temporal Pooling for Non-Intrusive Load Monitoring  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05012  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel Sequence-to-Sequence (Seq2Seq) model based on a transformer-based attention mechanism and temporal pooling for Non-Intrusive Load Monitoring (NILM) of smart buildings. The paper aims to improve the accuracy of NILM by using a deep learning-based method. The proposed method uses a Seq2Seq model with a transformer-based attention mechanism to capture the long-term dependencies of NILM data. Additionally, temporal pooling is used to improve the model's accuracy by capturing both the steady-state and transient behavior of appliances. The paper evaluates the proposed method on a publicly available dataset and compares the results with other state-of-the-art NILM techniques. The results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the existing methods in terms of both accuracy and computational efficiency. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** Learning Closed-form Equations for Subgrid-scale Closures from  High-fidelity Data: Promises and Challenges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05014  
**Abstract:** There is growing interest in discovering interpretable, closed-form equations for subgrid-scale (SGS) closures/parameterizations of complex processes in Earth system. Here, we apply a common equation-discovery technique with expansive libraries to learn closures from filtered direct numerical simulations of 2D forced turbulence and Rayleigh-B\'enard convection (RBC). Across common filters, we robustly discover closures of the same form for momentum and heat fluxes. These closures depend on nonlinear combinations of gradients of filtered variables (velocity, temperature), with constants that are independent of the fluid/flow properties and only depend on filter type/size. We show that these closures are the nonlinear gradient model (NGM), which is derivable analytically using Taylor-series expansions. In fact, we suggest that with common (physics-free) equation-discovery algorithms, regardless of the system/physics, discovered closures are always consistent with the Taylor-series. Like previous studies, we find that large-eddy simulations with NGM closures are unstable, despite significant similarities between the true and NGM-predicted fluxes (pattern correlations $> 0.95$). We identify two shortcomings as reasons for these instabilities: in 2D, NGM produces zero kinetic energy transfer between resolved and subgrid scales, lacking both diffusion and backscattering. In RBC, backscattering of potential energy is poorly predicted. Moreover, we show that SGS fluxes diagnosed from data, presumed the "truth" for discovery, depend on filtering procedures and are not unique. Accordingly, to learn accurate, stable closures from high-fidelity data in future work, we propose several ideas around using physics-informed libraries, loss functions, and metrics. These findings are relevant beyond turbulence to closure modeling of any multi-scale system. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** A cognitive process approach to modeling gap acceptance in overtaking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05203  
**Abstract:** Driving automation holds significant potential for enhancing traffic safety. However, effectively handling interactions with human drivers in mixed traffic remains a challenging task. Several models exist that attempt to capture human behavior in traffic interactions, often focusing on gap acceptance. However, it is not clear how models of an individual driver's gap acceptance can be translated to dynamic human-AV interactions in the context of high-speed scenarios like overtaking. In this study, we address this issue by employing a cognitive process approach to describe the dynamic interactions by the oncoming vehicle during overtaking maneuvers. Our findings reveal that by incorporating an initial decision-making bias dependent on the initial velocity into existing drift-diffusion models, we can accurately describe the qualitative patterns of overtaking gap acceptance observed previously. Our results demonstrate the potential of the cognitive process approach in modeling human overtaking behavior when the oncoming vehicle is an AV. To this end, this study contributes to the development of effective strategies for ensuring safe and efficient overtaking interactions between human drivers and AVs. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Unsupervised Statistical Feature-Guided Diffusion Model for Sensor-based  Human Activity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05285  
**Abstract:** Recognizing human activities from sensor data is a vital task in various domains, but obtaining diverse and labeled sensor data remains challenging and costly. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised statistical feature-guided diffusion model for sensor-based human activity recognition. The proposed method aims to generate synthetic time-series sensor data without relying on labeled data, addressing the scarcity and annotation difficulties associated with real-world sensor data. By conditioning the diffusion model on statistical information such as mean, standard deviation, Z-score, and skewness, we generate diverse and representative synthetic sensor data. We conducted experiments on public human activity recognition datasets and compared the proposed method to conventional oversampling methods and state-of-the-art generative adversarial network methods. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can improve the performance of human activity recognition and outperform existing techniques. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** JGAT: a joint spatio-temporal graph attention model for brain decoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05286  
**Abstract:** The decoding of brain neural networks has been an intriguing topic in neuroscience for a well-rounded understanding of different types of brain disorders and cognitive stimuli. Integrating different types of connectivity, e.g., Functional Connectivity (FC) and Structural Connectivity (SC), from multi-modal imaging techniques can take their complementary information into account and therefore have the potential to get better decoding capability. However, traditional approaches for integrating FC and SC overlook the dynamical variations, which stand a great chance to over-generalize the brain neural network. In this paper, we propose a Joint kernel Graph Attention Network (JGAT), which is a new multi-modal temporal graph attention network framework. It integrates the data from functional Magnetic Resonance Images (fMRI) and Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DWI) while preserving the dynamic information at the same time. We conduct brain-decoding tasks with our JGAT on four independent datasets: three of 7T fMRI datasets from the Human Connectome Project (HCP) and one from animal neural recordings. Furthermore, with Attention Scores (AS) and Frame Scores (FS) computed and learned from the model, we can locate several informative temporal segments and build meaningful dynamical pathways along the temporal domain for the HCP datasets. The URL to the code of JGAT model: https://github.com/BRAINML-GT/JGAT. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Connectional-Style-Guided Contextual Representation Learning for Brain  Disease Diagnosis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.05297  
**Abstract:** Structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) has shown great clinical value and has been widely used in deep learning (DL) based computer-aided brain disease diagnosis. Previous approaches focused on local shapes and textures in sMRI that may be significant only within a particular domain. The learned representations are likely to contain spurious information and have a poor generalization ability in other diseases and datasets. To facilitate capturing meaningful and robust features, it is necessary to first comprehensively understand the intrinsic pattern of the brain that is not restricted within a single data/task domain. Considering that the brain is a complex connectome of interlinked neurons, the connectional properties in the brain have strong biological significance, which is shared across multiple domains and covers most pathological information. In this work, we propose a connectional style contextual representation learning model (CS-CRL) to capture the intrinsic pattern of the brain, used for multiple brain disease diagnosis. Specifically, it has a vision transformer (ViT) encoder and leverages mask reconstruction as the proxy task and Gram matrices to guide the representation of connectional information. It facilitates the capture of global context and the aggregation of features with biological plausibility. The results indicate that CS-CRL achieves superior accuracy in multiple brain disease diagnosis tasks across six datasets and three diseases and outperforms state-of-the-art models. Furthermore, we demonstrate that CS-CRL captures more brain-network-like properties, better aggregates features, is easier to optimize and is more robust to noise, which explains its superiority in theory. Our source code will be released soon. 

