<html>
        <body>
        <p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Reward Design with Language Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00001<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Reward design in reinforcement learning (RL) is challenging since specifying human notions of desired behavior may be difficult via reward functions or require many expert demonstrations. Can we instead cheaply design rewards using a natural language interface? This paper explores how to simplify reward design by prompting a large language model (LLM) such as GPT-3 as a proxy reward function, where the user provides a textual prompt containing a few examples (few-shot) or a description (zero-shot) of the desired behavior. Our approach leverages this proxy reward function in an RL framework. Specifically, users specify a prompt once at the beginning of training. During training, the LLM evaluates an RL agent's behavior against the desired behavior described by the prompt and outputs a corresponding reward signal. The RL agent then uses this reward to update its behavior. We evaluate whether our approach can train agents aligned with user objectives in the Ultimatum Game, matrix games, and the DealOrNoDeal negotiation task. In all three tasks, we show that RL agents trained with our framework are well-aligned with the user's objectives and outperform RL agents trained with reward functions learned via supervised learning <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Applying Plain Transformers to Real-World Point Clouds<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00086<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Due to the lack of inductive bias, transformer-based models usually require a large amount of training data. The problem is especially concerning in 3D vision, as 3D data are harder to acquire and annotate. To overcome this problem, previous works modify the architecture of transformers to incorporate inductive biases by applying, e.g., local attention and down-sampling. Although they have achieved promising results, earlier works on transformers for point clouds have two issues. First, the power of plain transformers is still under-explored. Second, they focus on simple and small point clouds instead of complex real-world ones. This work revisits the plain transformers in real-world point cloud understanding. We first take a closer look at some fundamental components of plain transformers, e.g., patchifier and positional embedding, for both efficiency and performance. To close the performance gap due to the lack of inductive bias and annotated data, we investigate self-supervised pre-training with masked autoencoder (MAE). Specifically, we propose drop patch, which prevents information leakage and significantly improves the effectiveness of MAE. Our models achieve SOTA results in semantic segmentation on the S3DIS dataset and object detection on the ScanNet dataset with lower computational costs. Our work provides a new baseline for future research on transformers for point clouds. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Diffusion Probabilistic Fields<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00165<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Diffusion probabilistic models have quickly become a major approach for generative modeling of images, 3D geometry, video and other domains. However, to adapt diffusion generative modeling to these domains the denoising network needs to be carefully designed for each domain independently, oftentimes under the assumption that data lives in a Euclidean grid. In this paper we introduce Diffusion Probabilistic Fields (DPF), a diffusion model that can learn distributions over continuous functions defined over metric spaces, commonly known as fields. We extend the formulation of diffusion probabilistic models to deal with this field parametrization in an explicit way, enabling us to define an end-to-end learning algorithm that side-steps the requirement of representing fields with latent vectors as in previous approaches (Dupont et al., 2022a; Du et al., 2021). We empirically show that, while using the same denoising network, DPF effectively deals with different modalities like 2D images and 3D geometry, in addition to modeling distributions over fields defined on non-Euclidean metric spaces. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: CLIPER: A Unified Vision-Language Framework for In-the-Wild Facial  Expression Recognition<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00193<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Facial expression recognition (FER) is an essential task for understanding human behaviors. As one of the most informative behaviors of humans, facial expressions are often compound and variable, which is manifested by the fact that different people may express the same expression in very different ways. However, most FER methods still use one-hot or soft labels as the supervision, which lack sufficient semantic descriptions of facial expressions and are less interpretable. Recently, contrastive vision-language pre-training (VLP) models (e.g., CLIP) use text as supervision and have injected new vitality into various computer vision tasks, benefiting from the rich semantics in text. Therefore, in this work, we propose CLIPER, a unified framework for both static and dynamic facial Expression Recognition based on CLIP. Besides, we introduce multiple expression text descriptors (METD) to learn fine-grained expression representations that make CLIPER more interpretable. We conduct extensive experiments on several popular FER benchmarks and achieve state-of-the-art performance, which demonstrates the effectiveness of CLIPER. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Hidden Markov Transformer for Simultaneous Machine Translation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00257<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Simultaneous machine translation (SiMT) outputs the target sequence while receiving the source sequence, and hence learning when to start translating each target token is the core challenge for SiMT task. However, it is non-trivial to learn the optimal moment among many possible moments of starting translating, as the moments of starting translating always hide inside the model and can only be supervised with the observed target sequence. In this paper, we propose a Hidden Markov Transformer (HMT), which treats the moments of starting translating as hidden events and the target sequence as the corresponding observed events, thereby organizing them as a hidden Markov model. HMT explicitly models multiple moments of starting translating as the candidate hidden events, and then selects one to generate the target token. During training, by maximizing the marginal likelihood of the target sequence over multiple moments of starting translating, HMT learns to start translating at the moments that target tokens can be generated more accurately. Experiments on multiple SiMT benchmarks show that HMT outperforms strong baselines and achieves state-of-the-art performance. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Collage Diffusion<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00262<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Text-conditional diffusion models generate high-quality, diverse images. However, text is often an ambiguous specification for a desired target image, creating the need for additional user-friendly controls for diffusion-based image generation. We focus on having precise control over image output for scenes with several objects. Users control image generation by defining a collage: a text prompt paired with an ordered sequence of layers, where each layer is an RGBA image and a corresponding text prompt. We introduce Collage Diffusion, a collage-conditional diffusion algorithm that allows users to control both the spatial arrangement and visual attributes of objects in the scene, and also enables users to edit individual components of generated images. To ensure that different parts of the input text correspond to the various locations specified in the input collage layers, Collage Diffusion modifies text-image cross-attention with the layers' alpha masks. To maintain characteristics of individual collage layers that are not specified in text, Collage Diffusion learns specialized text representations per layer. Collage input also enables layer-based controls that provide fine-grained control over the final output: users can control image harmonization on a layer-by-layer basis, and they can edit individual objects in generated images while keeping other objects fixed. Collage-conditional image generation requires harmonizing the input collage to make objects fit together--the key challenge involves minimizing changes in the positions and key visual attributes of objects in the input collage while allowing other attributes of the collage to change in the harmonization process. By leveraging the rich information present in layer input, Collage Diffusion generates globally harmonized images that maintain desired object locations and visual characteristics better than prior approaches. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Label Attention Network for sequential multi-label classification<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00280<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Multi-label classification is a natural problem statement for sequential data. We might be interested in the items of the next order by a customer, or types of financial transactions that will occur tomorrow. Most modern approaches focus on transformer architecture for multi-label classification, introducing self-attention for the elements of a sequence with each element being a multi-label vector and supplementary information. However, in this way we loose local information related to interconnections between particular labels. We propose instead to use a self-attention mechanism over labels preceding the predicted step. Conducted experiments suggest that such architecture improves the model performance and provides meaningful attention between labels. The metric such as micro-AUC of our label attention network is $0.9847$ compared to $0.7390$ for vanilla transformers benchmark. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: How Robust is GPT-3.5 to Predecessors? A Comprehensive Study on Language  Understanding Tasks<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00293<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The GPT-3.5 models have demonstrated impressive performance in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks, showcasing their strong understanding and reasoning capabilities. However, their robustness and abilities to handle various complexities of the open world have yet to be explored, which is especially crucial in assessing the stability of models and is a key aspect of trustworthy AI. In this study, we perform a comprehensive experimental analysis of GPT-3.5, exploring its robustness using 21 datasets (about 116K test samples) with 66 text transformations from TextFlint that cover 9 popular Natural Language Understanding (NLU) tasks. Our findings indicate that while GPT-3.5 outperforms existing fine-tuned models on some tasks, it still encounters significant robustness degradation, such as its average performance dropping by up to 35.74\% and 43.59\% in natural language inference and sentiment analysis tasks, respectively. We also show that GPT-3.5 faces some specific robustness challenges, including robustness instability, prompt sensitivity, and number sensitivity. These insights are valuable for understanding its limitations and guiding future research in addressing these challenges to enhance GPT-3.5's overall performance and generalization abilities. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Capturing the motion of every joint: 3D human pose and shape estimation  with independent tokens<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00298<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In this paper we present a novel method to estimate 3D human pose and shape from monocular videos. This task requires directly recovering pixel-alignment 3D human pose and body shape from monocular images or videos, which is challenging due to its inherent ambiguity. To improve precision, existing methods highly rely on the initialized mean pose and shape as prior estimates and parameter regression with an iterative error feedback manner. In addition, video-based approaches model the overall change over the image-level features to temporally enhance the single-frame feature, but fail to capture the rotational motion at the joint level, and cannot guarantee local temporal consistency. To address these issues, we propose a novel Transformer-based model with a design of independent tokens. First, we introduce three types of tokens independent of the image feature: \textit{joint rotation tokens, shape token, and camera token}. By progressively interacting with image features through Transformer layers, these tokens learn to encode the prior knowledge of human 3D joint rotations, body shape, and position information from large-scale data, and are updated to estimate SMPL parameters conditioned on a given image. Second, benefiting from the proposed token-based representation, we further use a temporal model to focus on capturing the rotational temporal information of each joint, which is empirically conducive to preventing large jitters in local parts. Despite being conceptually simple, the proposed method attains superior performances on the 3DPW and Human3.6M datasets. Using ResNet-50 and Transformer architectures, it obtains 42.0 mm error on the PA-MPJPE metric of the challenging 3DPW, outperforming state-of-the-art counterparts by a large margin. Code will be publicly available at https://github.com/yangsenius/INT_HMR_Model <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: TimeMAE: Self-Supervised Representations of Time Series with Decoupled  Masked Autoencoders<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00320<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Enhancing the expressive capacity of deep learning-based time series models with self-supervised pre-training has become ever-increasingly prevalent in time series classification. Even though numerous efforts have been devoted to developing self-supervised models for time series data, we argue that the current methods are not sufficient to learn optimal time series representations due to solely unidirectional encoding over sparse point-wise input units. In this work, we propose TimeMAE, a novel self-supervised paradigm for learning transferrable time series representations based on transformer networks. The distinct characteristics of the TimeMAE lie in processing each time series into a sequence of non-overlapping sub-series via window-slicing partitioning, followed by random masking strategies over the semantic units of localized sub-series. Such a simple yet effective setting can help us achieve the goal of killing three birds with one stone, i.e., (1) learning enriched contextual representations of time series with a bidirectional encoding scheme; (2) increasing the information density of basic semantic units; (3) efficiently encoding representations of time series using transformer networks. Nevertheless, it is a non-trivial to perform reconstructing task over such a novel formulated modeling paradigm. To solve the discrepancy issue incurred by newly injected masked embeddings, we design a decoupled autoencoder architecture, which learns the representations of visible (unmasked) positions and masked ones with two different encoder modules, respectively. Furthermore, we construct two types of informative targets to accomplish the corresponding pretext tasks. One is to create a tokenizer module that assigns a codeword to each masked region, allowing the masked codeword classification (MCC) task to be completed effectively... <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Competence-Based Analysis of Language Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00333<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Despite the recent success of large pretrained language models (LMs) on a variety of prompting tasks, these models can be alarmingly brittle to small changes in inputs or application contexts. To better understand such behavior and motivate the design of more robust LMs, we propose a general experimental framework, CALM (Competence-based Analysis of Language Models), where targeted causal interventions are utilized to damage an LM's internal representation of various linguistic properties in order to evaluate its use of each representation in performing a given task. We implement these interventions as gradient-based adversarial attacks, which (in contrast to prior causal probing methodologies) are able to target arbitrarily-encoded representations of relational properties, and carry out a case study of this approach to analyze how BERT-like LMs use representations of several relational properties in performing associated relation prompting tasks. We find that, while the representations LMs leverage in performing each task are highly entangled, they may be meaningfully interpreted in terms of the tasks where they are most utilized; and more broadly, that CALM enables an expanded scope of inquiry in LM analysis that may be useful in predicting and explaining weaknesses of existing LMs. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Inline Citation Classification using Peripheral Context and  Time-evolving Augmentation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00344<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Citation plays a pivotal role in determining the associations among research articles. It portrays essential information in indicative, supportive, or contrastive studies. The task of inline citation classification aids in extrapolating these relationships; However, existing studies are still immature and demand further scrutiny. Current datasets and methods used for inline citation classification only use citation-marked sentences constraining the model to turn a blind eye to domain knowledge and neighboring contextual sentences. In this paper, we propose a new dataset, named 3Cext, which along with the cited sentences, provides discourse information using the vicinal sentences to analyze the contrasting and entailing relationships as well as domain information. We propose PeriCite, a Transformer-based deep neural network that fuses peripheral sentences and domain knowledge. Our model achieves the state-of-the-art on the 3Cext dataset by +0.09 F1 against the best baseline. We conduct extensive ablations to analyze the efficacy of the proposed dataset and model fusion methods. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Unlimited-Size Diffusion Restoration<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00354<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recently, using diffusion models for zero-shot image restoration (IR) has become a new hot paradigm. This type of method only needs to use the pre-trained off-the-shelf diffusion models, without any finetuning, and can directly handle various IR tasks. The upper limit of the restoration performance depends on the pre-trained diffusion models, which are in rapid evolution. However, current methods only discuss how to deal with fixed-size images, but dealing with images of arbitrary sizes is very important for practical applications. This paper focuses on how to use those diffusion-based zero-shot IR methods to deal with any size while maintaining the excellent characteristics of zero-shot. A simple way to solve arbitrary size is to divide it into fixed-size patches and solve each patch independently. But this may yield significant artifacts since it neither considers the global semantics of all patches nor the local information of adjacent patches. Inspired by the Range-Null space Decomposition, we propose the Mask-Shift Restoration to address local incoherence and propose the Hierarchical Restoration to alleviate out-of-domain issues. Our simple, parameter-free approaches can be used not only for image restoration but also for image generation of unlimited sizes, with the potential to be a general tool for diffusion models. Code: https://github.com/wyhuai/DDNM/tree/main/hq_demo <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Progressive Scale-aware Network for Remote sensing Image Change  Captioning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00355<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Remote sensing (RS) images contain numerous objects of different scales, which poses significant challenges for the RS image change captioning (RSICC) task to identify visual changes of interest in complex scenes and describe them via language. However, current methods still have some weaknesses in sufficiently extracting and utilizing multi-scale information. In this paper, we propose a progressive scale-aware network (PSNet) to address the problem. PSNet is a pure Transformer-based model. To sufficiently extract multi-scale visual features, multiple progressive difference perception (PDP) layers are stacked to progressively exploit the differencing features of bitemporal features. To sufficiently utilize the extracted multi-scale features for captioning, we propose a scale-aware reinforcement (SR) module and combine it with the Transformer decoding layer to progressively utilize the features from different PDP layers. Experiments show that the PDP layer and SR module are effective and our PSNet outperforms previous methods. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: A Framework to Generate Neurosymbolic PDDL-compliant Planners<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00438<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The problem of integrating high-level task planning in the execution loop of a real-world robot architecture remains challenging, as the planning times of traditional symbolic planners explode combinatorially with the number of symbols to plan upon. In this paper, we present Teriyaki, a framework for training Large Language Models (LLMs), and in particular the now well-known GPT-3 model, into neurosymbolic planners compatible with the Planning Domain Definition Language (PDDL). Unlike symbolic approaches, LLMs require a training process. However, their response time scales with the combined length of the input and the output. Hence, LLM-based planners can potentially provide significant performance gains on complex planning problems as the technology matures and becomes more accessible. In this preliminary work, which to our knowledge is the first using LLMs for planning in robotics, we (i) outline a methodology for training LLMs as PDDL solvers, (ii) generate PDDL-compliant planners for two challenging PDDL domains, and (iii) test the planning times and the plan quality associated with the obtained planners, while also comparing them to a state-of-the-art PDDL planner, namely Probe. Results confirm the viability of the approach, with Teriyaki-based planners being able to solve 95.5% of problems in a test data set of 1000 samples, and even generating plans up to 13.5% shorter on average than the employed traditional planner, depending on the domain. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Extracting Motion and Appearance via Inter-Frame Attention for Efficient  Video Frame Interpolation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00440<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Effectively extracting inter-frame motion and appearance information is important for video frame interpolation (VFI). Previous works either extract both types of information in a mixed way or elaborate separate modules for each type of information, which lead to representation ambiguity and low efficiency. In this paper, we propose a novel module to explicitly extract motion and appearance information via a unifying operation. Specifically, we rethink the information process in inter-frame attention and reuse its attention map for both appearance feature enhancement and motion information extraction. Furthermore, for efficient VFI, our proposed module could be seamlessly integrated into a hybrid CNN and Transformer architecture. This hybrid pipeline can alleviate the computational complexity of inter-frame attention as well as preserve detailed low-level structure information. Experimental results demonstrate that, for both fixed- and arbitrary-timestep interpolation, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on various datasets. Meanwhile, our approach enjoys a lighter computation overhead over models with close performance. The source code and models are available at https://github.com/MCG-NJU/EMA-VFI. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: The style transformer with common knowledge optimization for image-text  retrieval<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00448<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Image-text retrieval which associates different modalities has drawn broad attention due to its excellent research value and broad real-world application. While the algorithms keep updated, most of them haven't taken the high-level semantic relationships ("style embedding") and common knowledge from multi-modalities into full consideration. To this end, we propose a novel style transformer network with common knowledge optimization (CKSTN) for image-text retrieval. The main module is the common knowledge adaptor (CKA) with both the style embedding extractor (SEE) and the common knowledge optimization (CKO) modules. Specifically, the SEE is designed to effectively extract high-level features. The CKO module is introduced to dynamically capture the latent concepts of common knowledge from different modalities. Together, they could assist in the formation of item representations in lightweight transformers. Besides, to get generalized temporal common knowledge, we propose a sequential update strategy to effectively integrate the features of different layers in SEE with previous common feature units. CKSTN outperforms the results of state-of-the-art methods in image-text retrieval on MSCOCO and Flickr30K datasets. Moreover, CKSTN is more convenient and practical for the application of real scenes, due to the better performance and lower parameters. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Interpretable Transformer for Water Level Forecasting<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00515<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Forecasting the water level of the Han river is important to control the traffic and avoid natural disasters. There are many variables related to the Han river and they are intricately connected. In this work, we propose a novel transformer that exploits the causal relationship based on the prior knowledge among the variables and forecasts the four bridges of the Han river: Cheongdam, Jamsu, Hangang, and Haengju. Our proposed model considers both spatial and temporal causation by formalizing the causal structure as a multilayer network and using masking methods. Due to this approach, we can have the interpretability that consistent with prior knowledge. Additionally, we propose a novel recalibration method and loss function for high accuracy of extreme risk in time series. In real data analysis, we use the Han river dataset from 2016 to 2021, and compare the proposed model with deep learning models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Are More Layers Beneficial to Graph Transformers?<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00579<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Despite that going deep has proven successful in many neural architectures, the existing graph transformers are relatively shallow. In this work, we explore whether more layers are beneficial to graph transformers, and find that current graph transformers suffer from the bottleneck of improving performance by increasing depth. Our further analysis reveals the reason is that deep graph transformers are limited by the vanishing capacity of global attention, restricting the graph transformer from focusing on the critical substructure and obtaining expressive features. To this end, we propose a novel graph transformer model named DeepGraph that explicitly employs substructure tokens in the encoded representation, and applies local attention on related nodes to obtain substructure based attention encoding. Our model enhances the ability of the global attention to focus on substructures and promotes the expressiveness of the representations, addressing the limitation of self-attention as the graph transformer deepens. Experiments show that our method unblocks the depth limitation of graph transformers and results in state-of-the-art performance across various graph benchmarks with deeper models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: SCRIMP: Scalable Communication for Reinforcement- and  Imitation-Learning-Based Multi-Agent Pathfinding<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00605<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Trading off performance guarantees in favor of scalability, the Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) community has recently started to embrace Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL), where agents learn to collaboratively generate individual, collision-free (but often suboptimal) paths. Scalability is usually achieved by assuming a local field of view (FOV) around the agents, helping scale to arbitrary world sizes. However, this assumption significantly limits the amount of information available to the agents, making it difficult for them to enact the type of joint maneuvers needed in denser MAPF tasks. In this paper, we propose SCRIMP, where agents learn individual policies from even very small (down to 3x3) FOVs, by relying on a highly-scalable global/local communication mechanism based on a modified transformer. We further equip agents with a state-value-based tie-breaking strategy to further improve performance in symmetric situations, and introduce intrinsic rewards to encourage exploration while mitigating the long-term credit assignment problem. Empirical evaluations on a set of experiments indicate that SCRIMP can achieve higher performance with improved scalability compared to other state-of-the-art learning-based MAPF planners with larger FOVs, and even yields similar performance as a classical centralized planner in many cases. Ablation studies further validate the effectiveness of our proposed techniques. Finally, we show that our trained model can be directly implemented on real robots for online MAPF through high-fidelity simulations in gazebo. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Level Up the Deepfake Detection: a Method to Effectively Discriminate  Images Generated by GAN Architectures and Diffusion Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00608<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The image deepfake detection task has been greatly addressed by the scientific community to discriminate real images from those generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) models: a binary classification task. In this work, the deepfake detection and recognition task was investigated by collecting a dedicated dataset of pristine images and fake ones generated by 9 different Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) architectures and by 4 additional Diffusion Models (DM). A hierarchical multi-level approach was then introduced to solve three different deepfake detection and recognition tasks: (i) Real Vs AI generated; (ii) GANs Vs DMs; (iii) AI specific architecture recognition. Experimental results demonstrated, in each case, more than 97% classification accuracy, outperforming state-of-the-art methods. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Diffusing Graph Attention<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00613<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The dominant paradigm for machine learning on graphs uses Message Passing Graph Neural Networks (MP-GNNs), in which node representations are updated by aggregating information in their local neighborhood. Recently, there have been increasingly more attempts to adapt the Transformer architecture to graphs in an effort to solve some known limitations of MP-GNN. A challenging aspect of designing Graph Transformers is integrating the arbitrary graph structure into the architecture. We propose Graph Diffuser (GD) to address this challenge. GD learns to extract structural and positional relationships between distant nodes in the graph, which it then uses to direct the Transformer's attention and node representation. We demonstrate that existing GNNs and Graph Transformers struggle to capture long-range interactions and how Graph Diffuser does so while admitting intuitive visualizations. Experiments on eight benchmarks show Graph Diffuser to be a highly competitive model, outperforming the state-of-the-art in a diverse set of domains. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Aligning benchmark datasets for table structure recognition<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00716<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Benchmark datasets for table structure recognition (TSR) must be carefully processed to ensure they are annotated consistently. However, even if a dataset's annotations are self-consistent, there may be significant inconsistency across datasets, which can harm the performance of models trained and evaluated on them. In this work, we show that aligning these benchmarks$\unicode{x2014}$removing both errors and inconsistency between them$\unicode{x2014}$improves model performance significantly. We demonstrate this through a data-centric approach where we adopt a single model architecture, the Table Transformer (TATR), that we hold fixed throughout. Baseline exact match accuracy for TATR evaluated on the ICDAR-2013 benchmark is 65% when trained on PubTables-1M, 42% when trained on FinTabNet, and 69% combined. After reducing annotation mistakes and inter-dataset inconsistency, performance of TATR evaluated on ICDAR-2013 increases substantially to 75% when trained on PubTables-1M, 65% when trained on FinTabNet, and 81% combined. We show through ablations over the modification steps that canonicalization of the table annotations has a significantly positive effect on performance, while other choices balance necessary trade-offs that arise when deciding a benchmark dataset's final composition. Overall we believe our work has significant implications for benchmark design for TSR and potentially other tasks as well. All dataset processing and training code will be released. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: S-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields for Street Views<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00749<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) aim to synthesize novel views of objects and scenes, given the object-centric camera views with large overlaps. However, we conjugate that this paradigm does not fit the nature of the street views that are collected by many self-driving cars from the large-scale unbounded scenes. Also, the onboard cameras perceive scenes without much overlapping. Thus, existing NeRFs often produce blurs, 'floaters' and other artifacts on street-view synthesis. In this paper, we propose a new street-view NeRF (S-NeRF) that considers novel view synthesis of both the large-scale background scenes and the foreground moving vehicles jointly. Specifically, we improve the scene parameterization function and the camera poses for learning better neural representations from street views. We also use the the noisy and sparse LiDAR points to boost the training and learn a robust geometry and reprojection based confidence to address the depth outliers. Moreover, we extend our S-NeRF for reconstructing moving vehicles that is impracticable for conventional NeRFs. Thorough experiments on the large-scale driving datasets (e.g., nuScenes and Waymo) demonstrate that our method beats the state-of-the-art rivals by reducing 7% to 40% of the mean-squared error in the street-view synthesis and a 45% PSNR gain for the moving vehicles rendering. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: StraIT: Non-autoregressive Generation with Stratified Image Transformer<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00750<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We propose Stratified Image Transformer(StraIT), a pure non-autoregressive(NAR) generative model that demonstrates superiority in high-quality image synthesis over existing autoregressive(AR) and diffusion models(DMs). In contrast to the under-exploitation of visual characteristics in existing vision tokenizer, we leverage the hierarchical nature of images to encode visual tokens into stratified levels with emergent properties. Through the proposed image stratification that obtains an interlinked token pair, we alleviate the modeling difficulty and lift the generative power of NAR models. Our experiments demonstrate that StraIT significantly improves NAR generation and out-performs existing DMs and AR methods while being order-of-magnitude faster, achieving FID scores of 3.96 at 256*256 resolution on ImageNet without leveraging any guidance in sampling or auxiliary image classifiers. When equipped with classifier-free guidance, our method achieves an FID of 3.36 and IS of 259.3. In addition, we illustrate the decoupled modeling process of StraIT generation, showing its compelling properties on applications including domain transfer. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Dimension-reduced KRnet maps for high-dimensional inverse problems<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00573<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We present a dimension-reduced KRnet map approach (DR-KRnet) for high-dimensional inverse problems, which is based on an explicit construction of a map that pushes forward the prior measure to the posterior measure in the latent space. Our approach consists of two main components: data-driven VAE prior and density approximation of the posterior of the latent variable. In reality, it may not be trivial to initialize a prior distribution that is consistent with available prior data; in other words, the complex prior information is often beyond simple hand-crafted priors. We employ variational autoencoder (VAE) to approximate the underlying distribution of the prior dataset, which is achieved through a latent variable and a decoder. Using the decoder provided by the VAE prior, we reformulate the problem in a low-dimensional latent space. In particular, we seek an invertible transport map given by KRnet to approximate the posterior distribution of the latent variable. Moreover, an efficient physics-constrained surrogate model without any labeled data is constructed to reduce the computational cost of solving both forward and adjoint problems involved in likelihood computation. Numerical experiments are implemented to demonstrate the validity, accuracy, and efficiency of DR-KRnet. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: PE-GAN: Prior Embedding GAN for PXD images at Belle II<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00693<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The pixel vertex detector (PXD) is an essential part of the Belle II detector recording particle positions. Data from the PXD and other sensors allow us to reconstruct particle tracks and decay vertices. The effect of background hits on track reconstruction is simulated by adding measured or simulated background hit patterns to the hits produced by simulated signal particles. This model requires a large set of statistically independent PXD background noise samples to avoid a systematic bias of reconstructed tracks. However, data from the fine-grained PXD requires a substantial amount of storage. As an efficient way of producing background noise, we explore the idea of an on-demand PXD background generator using conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) with contrastive learning, adapted by the number of PXD sensors in order to both increase the image fidelity and produce sensor-dependent PXD hitmaps. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/></body>
        </html>
