**Title:** Context-based Ontology Modelling for Database: Enabling ChatGPT for  Semantic Database Management  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07351

**Abstract:** This research paper explores the use of ChatGPT in database management. ChatGPT, an AI-powered chatbot, has limitations in performing tasks related to database management due to the lack of standardized vocabulary and grammar for representing database semantics. To address this limitation, the paper proposes a solution that involves developing a set of syntaxes that can represent database semantics in natural language. The syntax is used to convert database schemas into natural language formats, providing a new application of ChatGPT in database management. The proposed solution is demonstrated through a case study where ChatGPT is used to perform two tasks, semantic integration, and tables joining. Results demonstrate that the use of semantic database representations produces more precise outcomes and avoids common mistakes compared to cases with no semantic representation. The proposed method has the potential to speed up the database management process, reduce the level of understanding required for database domain knowledge, and enable automatic database operations without accessing the actual data, thus illuminating privacy protection concerns when using AI. This paper provides a promising new direction for research in the field of AI-based database management. 

**Title:** MetaTroll: Few-shot Detection of State-Sponsored Trolls with Transformer  Adapters  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07354

**Abstract:** State-sponsored trolls are the main actors of influence campaigns on social media and automatic troll detection is important to combat misinformation at scale. Existing troll detection models are developed based on training data for known campaigns (e.g.\ the influence campaign by Russia's Internet Research Agency on the 2016 US Election), and they fall short when dealing with {\em novel} campaigns with new targets. We propose MetaTroll, a text-based troll detection model based on the meta-learning framework that enables high portability and parameter-efficient adaptation to new campaigns using only a handful of labelled samples for few-shot transfer. We introduce \textit{campaign-specific} transformer adapters to MetaTroll to ``memorise'' campaign-specific knowledge so as to tackle catastrophic forgetting, where a model ``forgets'' how to detect trolls from older campaigns due to continual adaptation. Our experiments demonstrate that MetaTroll substantially outperforms baselines and state-of-the-art few-shot text classification models. Lastly, we explore simple approaches to extend MetaTroll to multilingual and multimodal detection. Source code for MetaTroll is available at: https://github.com/ltian678/metatroll-code.git. 

**Title:** FreeNeRF: Improving Few-shot Neural Rendering with Free Frequency  Regularization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07418

**Abstract:** Novel view synthesis with sparse inputs is a challenging problem for neural radiance fields (NeRF). Recent efforts alleviate this challenge by introducing external supervision, such as pre-trained models and extra depth signals, and by non-trivial patch-based rendering. In this paper, we present Frequency regularized NeRF (FreeNeRF), a surprisingly simple baseline that outperforms previous methods with minimal modifications to the plain NeRF. We analyze the key challenges in few-shot neural rendering and find that frequency plays an important role in NeRF's training. Based on the analysis, we propose two regularization terms. One is to regularize the frequency range of NeRF's inputs, while the other is to penalize the near-camera density fields. Both techniques are ``free lunches'' at no additional computational cost. We demonstrate that even with one line of code change, the original NeRF can achieve similar performance as other complicated methods in the few-shot setting. FreeNeRF achieves state-of-the-art performance across diverse datasets, including Blender, DTU, and LLFF. We hope this simple baseline will motivate a rethinking of the fundamental role of frequency in NeRF's training under the low-data regime and beyond. 

**Title:** AMOM: Adaptive Masking over Masking for Conditional Masked Language  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07457

**Abstract:** Transformer-based autoregressive (AR) methods have achieved appealing performance for varied sequence-to-sequence generation tasks, e.g., neural machine translation, summarization, and code generation, but suffer from low inference efficiency. To speed up the inference stage, many non-autoregressive (NAR) strategies have been proposed in the past few years. Among them, the conditional masked language model (CMLM) is one of the most versatile frameworks, as it can support many different sequence generation scenarios and achieve very competitive performance on these tasks. In this paper, we further introduce a simple yet effective adaptive masking over masking strategy to enhance the refinement capability of the decoder and make the encoder optimization easier. Experiments on \textbf{3} different tasks (neural machine translation, summarization, and code generation) with \textbf{15} datasets in total confirm that our proposed simple method achieves significant performance improvement over the strong CMLM model. Surprisingly, our proposed model yields state-of-the-art performance on neural machine translation (\textbf{34.62} BLEU on WMT16 EN$\to$RO, \textbf{34.82} BLEU on WMT16 RO$\to$EN, and \textbf{34.84} BLEU on IWSLT De$\to$En) and even better performance than the \textbf{AR} Transformer on \textbf{7} benchmark datasets with at least \textbf{2.2$\times$} speedup. Our code is available at GitHub. 

**Title:** X-Former: In-Memory Acceleration of Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07470

**Abstract:** Transformers have achieved great success in a wide variety of natural language processing (NLP) tasks due to the attention mechanism, which assigns an importance score for every word relative to other words in a sequence. However, these models are very large, often reaching hundreds of billions of parameters, and therefore require a large number of DRAM accesses. Hence, traditional deep neural network (DNN) accelerators such as GPUs and TPUs face limitations in processing Transformers efficiently. In-memory accelerators based on non-volatile memory promise to be an effective solution to this challenge, since they provide high storage density while performing massively parallel matrix vector multiplications within memory arrays. However, attention score computations, which are frequently used in Transformers (unlike CNNs and RNNs), require matrix vector multiplications (MVM) where both operands change dynamically for each input. As a result, conventional NVM-based accelerators incur high write latency and write energy when used for Transformers, and further suffer from the low endurance of most NVM technologies. To address these challenges, we present X-Former, a hybrid in-memory hardware accelerator that consists of both NVM and CMOS processing elements to execute transformer workloads efficiently. To improve the hardware utilization of X-Former, we also propose a sequence blocking dataflow, which overlaps the computations of the two processing elements and reduces execution time. Across several benchmarks, we show that X-Former achieves upto 85x and 7.5x improvements in latency and energy over a NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1060 GPU and upto 10.7x and 4.6x improvements in latency and energy over a state-of-the-art in-memory NVM accelerator. 

**Title:** Deep Learning Approach for Classifying the Aggressive Comments on Social  Media: Machine Translated Data Vs Real Life Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07484

**Abstract:** Aggressive comments on social media negatively impact human life. Such offensive contents are responsible for depression and suicidal-related activities. Since online social networking is increasing day by day, the hate content is also increasing. Several investigations have been done on the domain of cyberbullying, cyberaggression, hate speech, etc. The majority of the inquiry has been done in the English language. Some languages (Hindi and Bangla) still lack proper investigations due to the lack of a dataset. This paper particularly worked on the Hindi, Bangla, and English datasets to detect aggressive comments and have shown a novel way of generating machine-translated data to resolve data unavailability issues. A fully machine-translated English dataset has been analyzed with the models such as the Long Short term memory model (LSTM), Bidirectional Long-short term memory model (BiLSTM), LSTM-Autoencoder, word2vec, Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), and generative pre-trained transformer (GPT-2) to make an observation on how the models perform on a machine-translated noisy dataset. We have compared the performance of using the noisy data with two more datasets such as raw data, which does not contain any noises, and semi-noisy data, which contains a certain amount of noisy data. We have classified both the raw and semi-noisy data using the aforementioned models. To evaluate the performance of the models, we have used evaluation metrics such as F1-score,accuracy, precision, and recall. We have achieved the highest accuracy on raw data using the gpt2 model, semi-noisy data using the BERT model, and fully machine-translated data using the BERT model. Since many languages do not have proper data availability, our approach will help researchers create machine-translated datasets for several analysis purposes. 

**Title:** MRET: Multi-resolution Transformer for Video Quality Assessment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07489

**Abstract:** No-reference video quality assessment (NR-VQA) for user generated content (UGC) is crucial for understanding and improving visual experience. Unlike video recognition tasks, VQA tasks are sensitive to changes in input resolution. Since large amounts of UGC videos nowadays are 720p or above, the fixed and relatively small input used in conventional NR-VQA methods results in missing high-frequency details for many videos. In this paper, we propose a novel Transformer-based NR-VQA framework that preserves the high-resolution quality information. With the multi-resolution input representation and a novel multi-resolution patch sampling mechanism, our method enables a comprehensive view of both the global video composition and local high-resolution details. The proposed approach can effectively aggregate quality information across different granularities in spatial and temporal dimensions, making the model robust to input resolution variations. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on large-scale UGC VQA datasets LSVQ and LSVQ-1080p, and on KoNViD-1k and LIVE-VQC without fine-tuning. 

**Title:** Handwritten Word Recognition using Deep Learning Approach: A Novel Way  of Generating Handwritten Words  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07514

**Abstract:** A handwritten word recognition system comes with issues such as lack of large and diverse datasets. It is necessary to resolve such issues since millions of official documents can be digitized by training deep learning models using a large and diverse dataset. Due to the lack of data availability, the trained model does not give the expected result. Thus, it has a high chance of showing poor results. This paper proposes a novel way of generating diverse handwritten word images using handwritten characters. The idea of our project is to train the BiLSTM-CTC architecture with generated synthetic handwritten words. The whole approach shows the process of generating two types of large and diverse handwritten word datasets: overlapped and non-overlapped. Since handwritten words also have issues like overlapping between two characters, we have tried to put it into our experimental part. We have also demonstrated the process of recognizing handwritten documents using the deep learning model. For the experiments, we have targeted the Bangla language, which lacks the handwritten word dataset, and can be followed for any language. Our approach is less complex and less costly than traditional GAN models. Finally, we have evaluated our model using Word Error Rate (WER), accuracy, f1-score, precision, and recall metrics. The model gives 39% WER score, 92% percent accuracy, and 92% percent f1 scores using non-overlapped data and 63% percent WER score, 83% percent accuracy, and 85% percent f1 scores using overlapped data. 

**Title:** Architext: Language-Driven Generative Architecture Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07519

**Abstract:** Architectural design is a highly complex practice that involves a wide diversity of disciplines, technologies, proprietary design software, expertise, and an almost infinite number of constraints, across a vast array of design tasks. Enabling intuitive, accessible, and scalable design processes is an important step towards performance-driven and sustainable design for all. To that end, we introduce Architext, a novel semantic generation assistive tool. Architext enables design generation with only natural language prompts, given to large-scale Language Models, as input. We conduct a thorough quantitative evaluation of Architext's downstream task performance, focusing on semantic accuracy and diversity for a number of pre-trained language models ranging from 120 million to 6 billion parameters. Architext models are able to learn the specific design task, generating valid residential layouts at a near 100\% rate. Accuracy shows great improvement when scaling the models, with the largest model (GPT-J) yielding impressive accuracy ranging between 25% to over 80% for different prompt categories. We open source the finetuned Architext models and our synthetic dataset, hoping to inspire experimentation in this exciting area of design research. 

**Title:** Thinking Upstream: Ethics and Policy Opportunities in AI Supply Chains  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07529

**Abstract:** After children were pictured sewing its running shoes in the early 1990s, Nike at first disavowed the "working conditions in its suppliers' factories", before public pressure led them to take responsibility for ethics in their upstream supply chain. In 2023, OpenAI responded to criticism that Kenyan workers were paid less than $2 per hour to filter traumatic content from its ChatGPT model by stating in part that it had outsourced the work to a subcontractor, who managed workers' payment and mental health concerns. In this position paper, we argue that policy interventions for AI Ethics must consider AI as a supply chain problem, given how the political economy and intra-firm relations structure AI production, in particular examining opportunities upstream. 

**Title:** WDiscOOD: Out-of-Distribution Detection via Whitened Linear  Discriminative Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07543

**Abstract:** Deep neural networks are susceptible to generating overconfident yet erroneous predictions when presented with data beyond known concepts. This challenge underscores the importance of detecting out-of-distribution (OOD) samples in the open world. In this work, we propose a novel feature-space OOD detection score that jointly reasons with both class-specific and class-agnostic information. Specifically, our approach utilizes Whitened Linear Discriminative Analysis to project features into two subspaces - the discriminative and residual subspaces - in which the ID classes are maximally separated and closely clustered, respectively. The OOD score is then determined by combining the deviation from the input data to the ID distribution in both subspaces. The efficacy of our method, named WDiscOOD, is verified on the large-scale ImageNet-1k benchmark, with six OOD datasets that covers a variety of distribution shifts. WDiscOOD demonstrates superior performance on deep classifiers with diverse backbone architectures, including CNN and vision transformer. Furthermore, we also show that our method can more effectively detect novel concepts in representation space trained with contrastive objectives, including supervised contrastive loss and multi-modality contrastive loss. 

**Title:** Implicit and Explicit Commonsense for Multi-sentence Video Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07545

**Abstract:** Existing dense or paragraph video captioning approaches rely on holistic representations of videos, possibly coupled with learned object/action representations, to condition hierarchical language decoders. However, they fundamentally lack the commonsense knowledge of the world required to reason about progression of events, causality, and even function of certain objects within a scene. To address this limitation we propose a novel video captioning Transformer-based model, that takes into account both implicit (visuo-lingual and purely linguistic) and explicit (knowledge-base) commonsense knowledge. We show that these forms of knowledge, in isolation and in combination, enhance the quality of produced captions. Further, inspired by imitation learning, we propose a new task of instruction generation, where the goal is to produce a set of linguistic instructions from a video demonstration of its performance. We formalize the task using ALFRED dataset [52] generated using an AI2-THOR environment. While instruction generation is conceptually similar to paragraph captioning, it differs in the fact that it exhibits stronger object persistence, as well as spatially-aware and causal sentence structure. We show that our commonsense knowledge enhanced approach produces significant improvements on this task (up to 57% in METEOR and 8.5% in CIDEr), as well as the state-of-the-art result on more traditional video captioning in the ActivityNet Captions dataset [29]. 

**Title:** Merging Decision Transformers: Weight Averaging for Forming Multi-Task  Policies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07551

**Abstract:** Recent work has shown the promise of creating generalist, transformer-based, policies for language, vision, and sequential decision-making problems. To create such models, we generally require centralized training objectives, data, and compute. It is of interest if we can more flexibly create generalist policies, by merging together multiple, task-specific, individually trained policies. In this work, we take a preliminary step in this direction through merging, or averaging, subsets of Decision Transformers in weight space trained on different MuJoCo locomotion problems, forming multi-task models without centralized training. We also propose that when merging policies, we can obtain better results if all policies start from common, pre-trained initializations, while also co-training on shared auxiliary tasks during problem-specific finetuning. In general, we believe research in this direction can help democratize and distribute the process of which forms generally capable agents. 

**Title:** Diffusion Models in NLP: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07576

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have become a powerful family of deep generative models, with record-breaking performance in many applications. This paper first gives an overview and derivation of the basic theory of diffusion models, then reviews the research results of diffusion models in the field of natural language processing, from text generation, text-driven image generation and other four aspects, and analyzes and summarizes the relevant literature materials sorted out, and finally records the experience and feelings of this topic literature review research. 

**Title:** Input-length-shortening and text generation via attention values  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07585

**Abstract:** Identifying words that impact a task's performance more than others is a challenge in natural language processing. Transformers models have recently addressed this issue by incorporating an attention mechanism that assigns greater attention (i.e., relevance) scores to some words than others. Because of the attention mechanism's high computational cost, transformer models usually have an input-length limitation caused by hardware constraints. This limitation applies to many transformers, including the well-known bidirectional encoder representations of the transformer (BERT) model. In this paper, we examined BERT's attention assignment mechanism, focusing on two questions: (1) How can attention be employed to reduce input length? (2) How can attention be used as a control mechanism for conditional text generation? We investigated these questions in the context of a text classification task. We discovered that BERT's early layers assign more critical attention scores for text classification tasks compared to later layers. We demonstrated that the first layer's attention sums could be used to filter tokens in a given sequence, considerably decreasing the input length while maintaining good test accuracy. We also applied filtering, which uses a compute-efficient semantic similarities algorithm, and discovered that retaining approximately 6\% of the original sequence is sufficient to obtain 86.5\% accuracy. Finally, we showed that we could generate data in a stable manner and indistinguishable from the original one by only using a small percentage (10\%) of the tokens with high attention scores according to BERT's first layer. 

**Title:** Enable Natural Tactile Interaction for Robot Dog based on Large-format  Distributed Flexible Pressure Sensors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07595

**Abstract:** Touch is an important channel for human-robot interaction, while it is challenging for robots to recognize human touch accurately and make appropriate responses. In this paper, we design and implement a set of large-format distributed flexible pressure sensors on a robot dog to enable natural human-robot tactile interaction. Through a heuristic study, we sorted out 81 tactile gestures commonly used when humans interact with real dogs and 44 dog reactions. A gesture classification algorithm based on ResNet is proposed to recognize these 81 human gestures, and the classification accuracy reaches 98.7%. In addition, an action prediction algorithm based on Transformer is proposed to predict dog actions from human gestures, reaching a 1-gram BLEU score of 0.87. Finally, we compare the tactile interaction with the voice interaction during a freedom human-robot-dog interactive playing study. The results show that tactile interaction plays a more significant role in alleviating user anxiety, stimulating user excitement and improving the acceptability of robot dogs. 

**Title:** Frequency-Modulated Point Cloud Rendering with Easy Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07596

**Abstract:** We develop an effective point cloud rendering pipeline for novel view synthesis, which enables high fidelity local detail reconstruction, real-time rendering and user-friendly editing. In the heart of our pipeline is an adaptive frequency modulation module called Adaptive Frequency Net (AFNet), which utilizes a hypernetwork to learn the local texture frequency encoding that is consecutively injected into adaptive frequency activation layers to modulate the implicit radiance signal. This mechanism improves the frequency expressive ability of the network with richer frequency basis support, only at a small computational budget. To further boost performance, a preprocessing module is also proposed for point cloud geometry optimization via point opacity estimation. In contrast to implicit rendering, our pipeline supports high-fidelity interactive editing based on point cloud manipulation. Extensive experimental results on NeRF-Synthetic, ScanNet, DTU and Tanks and Temples datasets demonstrate the superior performances achieved by our method in terms of PSNR, SSIM and LPIPS, in comparison to the state-of-the-art. 

**Title:** AdPE: Adversarial Positional Embeddings for Pretraining Vision  Transformers via MAE+  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07598

**Abstract:** Unsupervised learning of vision transformers seeks to pretrain an encoder via pretext tasks without labels. Among them is the Masked Image Modeling (MIM) aligned with pretraining of language transformers by predicting masked patches as a pretext task. A criterion in unsupervised pretraining is the pretext task needs to be sufficiently hard to prevent the transformer encoder from learning trivial low-level features not generalizable well to downstream tasks. For this purpose, we propose an Adversarial Positional Embedding (AdPE) approach -- It distorts the local visual structures by perturbing the position encodings so that the learned transformer cannot simply use the locally correlated patches to predict the missing ones. We hypothesize that it forces the transformer encoder to learn more discriminative features in a global context with stronger generalizability to downstream tasks. We will consider both absolute and relative positional encodings, where adversarial positions can be imposed both in the embedding mode and the coordinate mode. We will also present a new MAE+ baseline that brings the performance of the MIM pretraining to a new level with the AdPE. The experiments demonstrate that our approach can improve the fine-tuning accuracy of MAE by $0.8\%$ and $0.4\%$ over 1600 epochs of pretraining ViT-B and ViT-L on Imagenet1K. For the transfer learning task, it outperforms the MAE with the ViT-B backbone by $2.6\%$ in mIoU on ADE20K, and by $3.2\%$ in AP$^{bbox}$ and $1.6\%$ in AP$^{mask}$ on COCO, respectively. These results are obtained with the AdPE being a pure MIM approach that does not use any extra models or external datasets for pretraining. The code is available at https://github.com/maple-research-lab/AdPE. 

**Title:** Exploring ChatGPT's Ability to Rank Content: A Preliminary Study on  Consistency with Human Preferences  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07610

**Abstract:** As a natural language assistant, ChatGPT is capable of performing various tasks, including but not limited to article generation, code completion, and data analysis. Furthermore, ChatGPT has consistently demonstrated a remarkable level of accuracy and reliability in terms of content evaluation, exhibiting the capability of mimicking human preferences. To further explore ChatGPT's potential in this regard, a study is conducted to assess its ability to rank content. In order to do so, a test set consisting of prompts is created, covering a wide range of use cases, and five models are utilized to generate corresponding responses. ChatGPT is then instructed to rank the responses generated by these models. The results on the test set show that ChatGPT's ranking preferences are consistent with human to a certain extent. This preliminary experimental finding implies that ChatGPT's zero-shot ranking capability could be used to reduce annotation pressure in a number of ranking tasks. 

**Title:** Medical Phrase Grounding with Region-Phrase Context Contrastive  Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07618

**Abstract:** Medical phrase grounding (MPG) aims to locate the most relevant region in a medical image, given a phrase query describing certain medical findings, which is an important task for medical image analysis and radiological diagnosis. However, existing visual grounding methods rely on general visual features for identifying objects in natural images and are not capable of capturing the subtle and specialized features of medical findings, leading to sub-optimal performance in MPG. In this paper, we propose MedRPG, an end-to-end approach for MPG. MedRPG is built on a lightweight vision-language transformer encoder and directly predicts the box coordinates of mentioned medical findings, which can be trained with limited medical data, making it a valuable tool in medical image analysis. To enable MedRPG to locate nuanced medical findings with better region-phrase correspondences, we further propose Tri-attention Context contrastive alignment (TaCo). TaCo seeks context alignment to pull both the features and attention outputs of relevant region-phrase pairs close together while pushing those of irrelevant regions far away. This ensures that the final box prediction depends more on its finding-specific regions and phrases. Experimental results on three MPG datasets demonstrate that our MedRPG outperforms state-of-the-art visual grounding approaches by a large margin. Additionally, the proposed TaCo strategy is effective in enhancing finding localization ability and reducing spurious region-phrase correlations. 

**Title:** I3D: Transformer architectures with input-dependent dynamic depth for  speech recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07624

**Abstract:** Transformer-based end-to-end speech recognition has achieved great success. However, the large footprint and computational overhead make it difficult to deploy these models in some real-world applications. Model compression techniques can reduce the model size and speed up inference, but the compressed model has a fixed architecture which might be suboptimal. We propose a novel Transformer encoder with Input-Dependent Dynamic Depth (I3D) to achieve strong performance-efficiency trade-offs. With a similar number of layers at inference time, I3D-based models outperform the vanilla Transformer and the static pruned model via iterative layer pruning. We also present interesting analysis on the gate probabilities and the input-dependency, which helps us better understand deep encoders. 

**Title:** CAT: Causal Audio Transformer for Audio Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07626

**Abstract:** The attention-based Transformers have been increasingly applied to audio classification because of their global receptive field and ability to handle long-term dependency. However, the existing frameworks which are mainly extended from the Vision Transformers are not perfectly compatible with audio signals. In this paper, we introduce a Causal Audio Transformer (CAT) consisting of a Multi-Resolution Multi-Feature (MRMF) feature extraction with an acoustic attention block for more optimized audio modeling. In addition, we propose a causal module that alleviates over-fitting, helps with knowledge transfer, and improves interpretability. CAT obtains higher or comparable state-of-the-art classification performance on ESC50, AudioSet and UrbanSound8K datasets, and can be easily generalized to other Transformer-based models. 

**Title:** NEF: Neural Edge Fields for 3D Parametric Curve Reconstruction from  Multi-view Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07653

**Abstract:** We study the problem of reconstructing 3D feature curves of an object from a set of calibrated multi-view images. To do so, we learn a neural implicit field representing the density distribution of 3D edges which we refer to as Neural Edge Field (NEF). Inspired by NeRF, NEF is optimized with a view-based rendering loss where a 2D edge map is rendered at a given view and is compared to the ground-truth edge map extracted from the image of that view. The rendering-based differentiable optimization of NEF fully exploits 2D edge detection, without needing a supervision of 3D edges, a 3D geometric operator or cross-view edge correspondence. Several technical designs are devised to ensure learning a range-limited and view-independent NEF for robust edge extraction. The final parametric 3D curves are extracted from NEF with an iterative optimization method. On our benchmark with synthetic data, we demonstrate that NEF outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods on all metrics. Project page: https://yunfan1202.github.io/NEF/. 

**Title:** FPTN: Fast Pure Transformer Network for Traffic Flow Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07685

**Abstract:** Traffic flow forecasting is challenging due to the intricate spatio-temporal correlations in traffic flow data. Existing Transformer-based methods usually treat traffic flow forecasting as multivariate time series (MTS) forecasting. However, too many sensors can cause a vector with a dimension greater than 800, which is difficult to process without information loss. In addition, these methods design complex mechanisms to capture spatial dependencies in MTS, resulting in slow forecasting speed. To solve the abovementioned problems, we propose a Fast Pure Transformer Network (FPTN) in this paper. First, the traffic flow data are divided into sequences along the sensor dimension instead of the time dimension. Then, to adequately represent complex spatio-temporal correlations, Three types of embeddings are proposed for projecting these vectors into a suitable vector space. After that, to capture the complex spatio-temporal correlations simultaneously in these vectors, we utilize Transformer encoder and stack it with several layers. Extensive experiments are conducted with 4 real-world datasets and 13 baselines, which demonstrate that FPTN outperforms the state-of-the-art on two metrics. Meanwhile, the computational time of FPTN spent is less than a quarter of other state-of-the-art Transformer-based models spent, and the requirements for computing resources are significantly reduced. 

**Title:** A Simple Baseline for Supervised Surround-view Depth Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07759

**Abstract:** Depth estimation has been widely studied and serves as the fundamental step of 3D perception for autonomous driving. Though significant progress has been made for monocular depth estimation in the past decades, these attempts are mainly conducted on the KITTI benchmark with only front-view cameras, which ignores the correlations across surround-view cameras. In this paper, we propose S3Depth, a Simple Baseline for Supervised Surround-view Depth Estimation, to jointly predict the depth maps across multiple surrounding cameras. Specifically, we employ a global-to-local feature extraction module which combines CNN with transformer layers for enriched representations. Further, the Adjacent-view Attention mechanism is proposed to enable the intra-view and inter-view feature propagation. The former is achieved by the self-attention module within each view, while the latter is realized by the adjacent attention module, which computes the attention across multi-cameras to exchange the multi-scale representations across surround-view feature maps. Extensive experiments show that our method achieves superior performance over existing state-of-the-art methods on both DDAD and nuScenes datasets. 

**Title:** DiffuseRoll: Multi-track multi-category music generation based on  diffusion model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07794

**Abstract:** Recent advancements in generative models have shown remarkable progress in music generation. However, most existing methods focus on generating monophonic or homophonic music, while the generation of polyphonic and multi-track music with rich attributes is still a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for multi-track, multi-attribute symphonic music generation using the diffusion model. Specifically, we generate piano-roll representations with a diffusion model and map them to MIDI format for output. To capture rich attribute information, we introduce a color coding scheme to encode note sequences into color and position information that represents pitch,velocity, and instrument. This scheme enables a seamless mapping between discrete music sequences and continuous images. We also propose a post-processing method to optimize the generated scores for better performance. Experimental results show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of polyphonic music generation with rich attribute information compared to the figure methods. 

**Title:** Implant Global and Local Hierarchy Information to Sequence based Code  Representation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07826

**Abstract:** Source code representation with deep learning techniques is an important research field. There have been many studies that learn sequential or structural information for code representation. But sequence-based models and non-sequence-models both have their limitations. Researchers attempt to incorporate structural information to sequence-based models, but they only mine part of token-level hierarchical structure information. In this paper, we analyze how the complete hierarchical structure influences the tokens in code sequences and abstract this influence as a property of code tokens called hierarchical embedding. The hierarchical embedding is further divided into statement-level global hierarchy and token-level local hierarchy. Furthermore, we propose the Hierarchy Transformer (HiT), a simple but effective sequence model to incorporate the complete hierarchical embeddings of source code into a Transformer model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of hierarchical embedding on learning code structure with an experiment on variable scope detection task. Further evaluation shows that HiT outperforms SOTA baseline models and show stable training efficiency on three source code-related tasks involving classification and generation tasks across 8 different datasets. 

**Title:** Quaternion Orthogonal Transformer for Facial Expression Recognition in  the Wild  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07831

**Abstract:** Facial expression recognition (FER) is a challenging topic in artificial intelligence. Recently, many researchers have attempted to introduce Vision Transformer (ViT) to the FER task. However, ViT cannot fully utilize emotional features extracted from raw images and requires a lot of computing resources. To overcome these problems, we propose a quaternion orthogonal transformer (QOT) for FER. Firstly, to reduce redundancy among features extracted from pre-trained ResNet-50, we use the orthogonal loss to decompose and compact these features into three sets of orthogonal sub-features. Secondly, three orthogonal sub-features are integrated into a quaternion matrix, which maintains the correlations between different orthogonal components. Finally, we develop a quaternion vision transformer (Q-ViT) for feature classification. The Q-ViT adopts quaternion operations instead of the original operations in ViT, which improves the final accuracies with fewer parameters. Experimental results on three in-the-wild FER datasets show that the proposed QOT outperforms several state-of-the-art models and reduces the computations. 

**Title:** ChatGPT Prompt Patterns for Improving Code Quality, Refactoring,  Requirements Elicitation, and Software Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07839

**Abstract:** This paper presents prompt design techniques for software engineering, in the form of patterns, to solve common problems when using large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT to automate common software engineering activities, such as ensuring code is decoupled from third-party libraries and simulating a web application API before it is implemented. This paper provides two contributions to research on using LLMs for software engineering. First, it provides a catalog of patterns for software engineering that classifies patterns according to the types of problems they solve. Second, it explores several prompt patterns that have been applied to improve requirements elicitation, rapid prototyping, code quality, refactoring, and system design. 

**Title:** Precise Facial Landmark Detection by Reference Heatmap Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07840

**Abstract:** Most facial landmark detection methods predict landmarks by mapping the input facial appearance features to landmark heatmaps and have achieved promising results. However, when the face image is suffering from large poses, heavy occlusions and complicated illuminations, they cannot learn discriminative feature representations and effective facial shape constraints, nor can they accurately predict the value of each element in the landmark heatmap, limiting their detection accuracy. To address this problem, we propose a novel Reference Heatmap Transformer (RHT) by introducing reference heatmap information for more precise facial landmark detection. The proposed RHT consists of a Soft Transformation Module (STM) and a Hard Transformation Module (HTM), which can cooperate with each other to encourage the accurate transformation of the reference heatmap information and facial shape constraints. Then, a Multi-Scale Feature Fusion Module (MSFFM) is proposed to fuse the transformed heatmap features and the semantic features learned from the original face images to enhance feature representations for producing more accurate target heatmaps. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to explore how to enhance facial landmark detection by transforming the reference heatmap information. The experimental results from challenging benchmark datasets demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in the literature. 

**Title:** Geolocation Predicting of Tweets Using BERT-Based Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07865

**Abstract:** This research is aimed to solve the tweet/user geolocation prediction task and provide a flexible methodology for the geotagging of textual big data. The suggested approach implements neural networks for natural language processing (NLP) to estimate the location as coordinate pairs (longitude, latitude) and two-dimensional Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs). The scope of proposed models has been finetuned on a Twitter dataset using pretrained Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) as base models. Performance metrics show a median error of fewer than 30 km on a worldwide-level, and fewer than 15 km on the US-level datasets for the models trained and evaluated on text features of tweets' content and metadata context. 

**Title:** Text-to-image Diffusion Model in Generative AI: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07909

**Abstract:** This survey reviews text-to-image diffusion models in the context that diffusion models have emerged to be popular for a wide range of generative tasks. As a self-contained work, this survey starts with a brief introduction of how a basic diffusion model works for image synthesis, followed by how condition or guidance improves learning. Based on that, we present a review of state-of-the-art methods on text-conditioned image synthesis, i.e., text-to-image. We further summarize applications beyond text-to-image generation: text-guided creative generation and text-guided image editing. Beyond the progress made so far, we discuss existing challenges and promising future directions. 

**Title:** Let 2D Diffusion Model Know 3D-Consistency for Robust Text-to-3D  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07937

**Abstract:** Text-to-3D generation has shown rapid progress in recent days with the advent of score distillation, a methodology of using pretrained text-to-2D diffusion models to optimize neural radiance field (NeRF) in the zero-shot setting. However, the lack of 3D awareness in the 2D diffusion models destabilizes score distillation-based methods from reconstructing a plausible 3D scene. To address this issue, we propose \ours, a novel framework that incorporates 3D awareness into pretrained 2D diffusion models, enhancing the robustness and 3D consistency of score distillation-based methods. We realize this by first constructing a coarse 3D structure of a given text prompt and then utilizing projected, view-specific depth map as a condition for the diffusion model. Additionally, we introduce a training strategy that enables the 2D diffusion model learns to handle the errors and sparsity within the coarse 3D structure for robust generation, as well as a method for ensuring semantic consistency throughout all viewpoints of the scene. Our framework surpasses the limitations of prior arts, and has significant implications for 3D consistent generation of 2D diffusion models. 

**Title:** Controllable Mesh Generation Through Sparse Latent Point Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07938

**Abstract:** Mesh generation is of great value in various applications involving computer graphics and virtual content, yet designing generative models for meshes is challenging due to their irregular data structure and inconsistent topology of meshes in the same category. In this work, we design a novel sparse latent point diffusion model for mesh generation. Our key insight is to regard point clouds as an intermediate representation of meshes, and model the distribution of point clouds instead. While meshes can be generated from point clouds via techniques like Shape as Points (SAP), the challenges of directly generating meshes can be effectively avoided. To boost the efficiency and controllability of our mesh generation method, we propose to further encode point clouds to a set of sparse latent points with point-wise semantic meaningful features, where two DDPMs are trained in the space of sparse latent points to respectively model the distribution of the latent point positions and features at these latent points. We find that sampling in this latent space is faster than directly sampling dense point clouds. Moreover, the sparse latent points also enable us to explicitly control both the overall structures and local details of the generated meshes. Extensive experiments are conducted on the ShapeNet dataset, where our proposed sparse latent point diffusion model achieves superior performance in terms of generation quality and controllability when compared to existing methods. 

**Title:** Edit-A-Video: Single Video Editing with Object-Aware Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07945

**Abstract:** Despite the fact that text-to-video (TTV) model has recently achieved remarkable success, there have been few approaches on TTV for its extension to video editing. Motivated by approaches on TTV models adapting from diffusion-based text-to-image (TTI) models, we suggest the video editing framework given only a pretrained TTI model and a single <text, video> pair, which we term Edit-A-Video. The framework consists of two stages: (1) inflating the 2D model into the 3D model by appending temporal modules and tuning on the source video (2) inverting the source video into the noise and editing with target text prompt and attention map injection. Each stage enables the temporal modeling and preservation of semantic attributes of the source video. One of the key challenges for video editing include a background inconsistency problem, where the regions not included for the edit suffer from undesirable and inconsistent temporal alterations. To mitigate this issue, we also introduce a novel mask blending method, termed as sparse-causal blending (SC Blending). We improve previous mask blending methods to reflect the temporal consistency so that the area where the editing is applied exhibits smooth transition while also achieving spatio-temporal consistency of the unedited regions. We present extensive experimental results over various types of text and videos, and demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method compared to baselines in terms of background consistency, text alignment, and video editing quality. 

**Title:** Evaluation of ChatGPT as a Question Answering System for Answering  Complex Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07992

**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a powerful large language model (LLM) that has made remarkable progress in natural language understanding. Nevertheless, the performance and limitations of the model still need to be extensively evaluated. As ChatGPT covers resources such as Wikipedia and supports natural language question answering, it has garnered attention as a potential replacement for traditional knowledge based question answering (KBQA) models. Complex question answering is a challenge task of KBQA, which comprehensively tests the ability of models in semantic parsing and reasoning. To assess the performance of ChatGPT as a question answering system (QAS) using its own knowledge, we present a framework that evaluates its ability to answer complex questions. Our approach involves categorizing the potential features of complex questions and describing each test question with multiple labels to identify combinatorial reasoning. Following the black-box testing specifications of CheckList proposed by Ribeiro et.al, we develop an evaluation method to measure the functionality and reliability of ChatGPT in reasoning for answering complex questions. We use the proposed framework to evaluate the performance of ChatGPT in question answering on 8 real-world KB-based CQA datasets, including 6 English and 2 multilingual datasets, with a total of approximately 190,000 test cases. We compare the evaluation results of ChatGPT, GPT-3.5, GPT-3, and FLAN-T5 to identify common long-term problems in LLMs. The dataset and code are available at https://github.com/tan92hl/Complex-Question-Answering-Evaluation-of-ChatGPT. 

**Title:** Does ChatGPT resemble humans in language use?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08014

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) and LLM-driven chatbots such as ChatGPT have shown remarkable capacities in comprehending and producing language. However, their internal workings remain a black box in cognitive terms, and it is unclear whether LLMs and chatbots can develop humanlike characteristics in language use. Cognitive scientists have devised many experiments that probe, and have made great progress in explaining, how people process language. We subjected ChatGPT to 12 of these experiments, pre-registered and with 1,000 runs per experiment. In 10 of them, ChatGPT replicated the human pattern of language use. It associated unfamiliar words with different meanings depending on their forms, continued to access recently encountered meanings of ambiguous words, reused recent sentence structures, reinterpreted implausible sentences that were likely to have been corrupted by noise, glossed over errors, drew reasonable inferences, associated causality with different discourse entities according to verb semantics, and accessed different meanings and retrieved different words depending on the identity of its interlocutor. However, unlike humans, it did not prefer using shorter words to convey less informative content and it did not use context to disambiguate syntactic ambiguities. We discuss how these convergences and divergences may occur in the transformer architecture. Overall, these experiments demonstrate that LLM-driven chatbots like ChatGPT are capable of mimicking human language processing to a great extent, and that they have the potential to provide insights into how people learn and use language. 

**Title:** Large Language Models (GPT) Struggle to Answer Multiple-Choice Questions  about Code  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08033

**Abstract:** We analyzed effectiveness of three generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models in answering multiple-choice question (MCQ) assessments, often involving short snippets of code, from introductory and intermediate programming courses at the postsecondary level. This emerging technology stirs countless discussions of its potential uses (e.g., exercise generation, code explanation) as well as misuses in programming education (e.g., cheating). However, the capabilities of GPT models and their limitations to reason about and/or analyze code in educational settings have been under-explored. We evaluated several OpenAI's GPT models on formative and summative MCQ assessments from three Python courses (530 questions). We found that MCQs containing code snippets are not answered as successfully as those that only contain natural language. While questions requiring to fill-in a blank in the code or completing a natural language statement about the snippet are handled rather successfully, MCQs that require analysis and/or reasoning about the code (e.g., what is true/false about the snippet, or what is its output) appear to be the most challenging. These findings can be leveraged by educators to adapt their instructional practices and assessments in programming courses, so that GPT becomes a valuable assistant for a learner as opposed to a source of confusion and/or potential hindrance in the learning process. 

**Title:** Interpretable ODE-style Generative Diffusion Model via Force Field  Construction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08063

**Abstract:** For a considerable time, researchers have focused on developing a method that establishes a deep connection between the generative diffusion model and mathematical physics. Despite previous efforts, progress has been limited to the pursuit of a single specialized method. In order to advance the interpretability of diffusion models and explore new research directions, it is essential to establish a unified ODE-style generative diffusion model. Such a model should draw inspiration from physical models and possess a clear geometric meaning. This paper aims to identify various physical models that are suitable for constructing ODE-style generative diffusion models accurately from a mathematical perspective. We then summarize these models into a unified method. Additionally, we perform a case study where we use the theoretical model identified by our method to develop a range of new diffusion model methods, and conduct experiments. Our experiments on CIFAR-10 demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. We have constructed a computational framework that attains highly proficient results with regards to image generation speed, alongside an additional model that demonstrates exceptional performance in both Inception score and FID score. These results underscore the significance of our method in advancing the field of diffusion models. 

**Title:** Style Feature Extraction Using Contrastive Conditioned Variational  Autoencoders with Mutual Information Constraints  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08068

**Abstract:** It is crucial to extract fine-grained features such as styles from unlabeled data in data analysis. Unsupervised methods, such as variational autoencoders (VAEs), can extract styles, but the extracted styles are usually mixed with other features. We can isolate the styles using VAEs conditioned by class labels, known as conditional VAEs (CVAEs). However, methods to extract only styles using unlabeled data are not established. In this paper, we construct a CVAE-based method that extracts style features using only unlabeled data. The proposed model roughly consists of two parallel parts; a contrastive learning (CL) part that extracts style-independent features and a CVAE part that extracts style features. CL models generally learn representations independent of data augmentation, which can be seen as a perturbation in styles, in a self-supervised way. Taking the style-independent features as a condition, the CVAE learns to extract only styles. In the training procedure, a CL model is trained beforehand, and then the CVAE is trained while the CL model is fixed. Additionally, to prevent the CVAE from learning to ignore the condition and failing to extract only styles, we introduce a constraint based on mutual information between the CL features and the VAE features. Experiments on two simple datasets, MNIST and an original dataset based on Google Fonts, show that the proposed method efficiently extracts style features. Further experiments using real-world natural image datasets also show the method's extendability. 

**Title:** Editing Implicit Assumptions in Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08084

**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models often make implicit assumptions about the world when generating images. While some assumptions are useful (e.g., the sky is blue), they can also be outdated, incorrect, or reflective of social biases present in the training data. Thus, there is a need to control these assumptions without requiring explicit user input or costly re-training. In this work, we aim to edit a given implicit assumption in a pre-trained diffusion model. Our Text-to-Image Model Editing method, TIME for short, receives a pair of inputs: a "source" under-specified prompt for which the model makes an implicit assumption (e.g., "a pack of roses"), and a "destination" prompt that describes the same setting, but with a specified desired attribute (e.g., "a pack of blue roses"). TIME then updates the model's cross-attention layers, as these layers assign visual meaning to textual tokens. We edit the projection matrices in these layers such that the source prompt is projected close to the destination prompt. Our method is highly efficient, as it modifies a mere 2.2% of the model's parameters in under one second. To evaluate model editing approaches, we introduce TIMED (TIME Dataset), containing 147 source and destination prompt pairs from various domains. Our experiments (using Stable Diffusion) show that TIME is successful in model editing, generalizes well for related prompts unseen during editing, and imposes minimal effect on unrelated generations. 

**Title:** MELON: NeRF with Unposed Images Using Equivalence Class Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08096

**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields enable novel-view synthesis and scene reconstruction with photorealistic quality from a few images, but require known and accurate camera poses. Conventional pose estimation algorithms fail on smooth or self-similar scenes, while methods performing inverse rendering from unposed views require a rough initialization of the camera orientations. The main difficulty of pose estimation lies in real-life objects being almost invariant under certain transformations, making the photometric distance between rendered views non-convex with respect to the camera parameters. Using an equivalence relation that matches the distribution of local minima in camera space, we reduce this space to its quotient set, in which pose estimation becomes a more convex problem. Using a neural-network to regularize pose estimation, we demonstrate that our method - MELON - can reconstruct a neural radiance field from unposed images with state-of-the-art accuracy while requiring ten times fewer views than adversarial approaches. 

**Title:** Do Transformers Parse while Predicting the Masked Word?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08117

**Abstract:** Pre-trained language models have been shown to encode linguistic structures, e.g. dependency and constituency parse trees, in their embeddings while being trained on unsupervised loss functions like masked language modeling. Some doubts have been raised whether the models actually are doing parsing or only some computation weakly correlated with it. We study questions: (a) Is it possible to explicitly describe transformers with realistic embedding dimension, number of heads, etc. that are capable of doing parsing -- or even approximate parsing? (b) Why do pre-trained models capture parsing structure? This paper takes a step toward answering these questions in the context of generative modeling with PCFGs. We show that masked language models like BERT or RoBERTa of moderate sizes can approximately execute the Inside-Outside algorithm for the English PCFG [Marcus et al, 1993]. We also show that the Inside-Outside algorithm is optimal for masked language modeling loss on the PCFG-generated data. We also give a construction of transformers with $50$ layers, $15$ attention heads, and $1275$ dimensional embeddings in average such that using its embeddings it is possible to do constituency parsing with $>70\%$ F1 score on PTB dataset. We conduct probing experiments on models pre-trained on PCFG-generated data to show that this not only allows recovery of approximate parse tree, but also recovers marginal span probabilities computed by the Inside-Outside algorithm, which suggests an implicit bias of masked language modeling towards this algorithm. 

**Title:** PiMAE: Point Cloud and Image Interactive Masked Autoencoders for 3D  Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08129

**Abstract:** Masked Autoencoders learn strong visual representations and achieve state-of-the-art results in several independent modalities, yet very few works have addressed their capabilities in multi-modality settings. In this work, we focus on point cloud and RGB image data, two modalities that are often presented together in the real world, and explore their meaningful interactions. To improve upon the cross-modal synergy in existing works, we propose PiMAE, a self-supervised pre-training framework that promotes 3D and 2D interaction through three aspects. Specifically, we first notice the importance of masking strategies between the two sources and utilize a projection module to complementarily align the mask and visible tokens of the two modalities. Then, we utilize a well-crafted two-branch MAE pipeline with a novel shared decoder to promote cross-modality interaction in the mask tokens. Finally, we design a unique cross-modal reconstruction module to enhance representation learning for both modalities. Through extensive experiments performed on large-scale RGB-D scene understanding benchmarks (SUN RGB-D and ScannetV2), we discover it is nontrivial to interactively learn point-image features, where we greatly improve multiple 3D detectors, 2D detectors, and few-shot classifiers by 2.9%, 6.7%, and 2.4%, respectively. Code is available at https://github.com/BLVLab/PiMAE. 

**Title:** MeshDiffusion: Score-based Generative 3D Mesh Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08133

**Abstract:** We consider the task of generating realistic 3D shapes, which is useful for a variety of applications such as automatic scene generation and physical simulation. Compared to other 3D representations like voxels and point clouds, meshes are more desirable in practice, because (1) they enable easy and arbitrary manipulation of shapes for relighting and simulation, and (2) they can fully leverage the power of modern graphics pipelines which are mostly optimized for meshes. Previous scalable methods for generating meshes typically rely on sub-optimal post-processing, and they tend to produce overly-smooth or noisy surfaces without fine-grained geometric details. To overcome these shortcomings, we take advantage of the graph structure of meshes and use a simple yet very effective generative modeling method to generate 3D meshes. Specifically, we represent meshes with deformable tetrahedral grids, and then train a diffusion model on this direct parametrization. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on multiple generative tasks. 

**Title:** LayoutDM: Discrete Diffusion Model for Controllable Layout Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08137

**Abstract:** Controllable layout generation aims at synthesizing plausible arrangement of element bounding boxes with optional constraints, such as type or position of a specific element. In this work, we try to solve a broad range of layout generation tasks in a single model that is based on discrete state-space diffusion models. Our model, named LayoutDM, naturally handles the structured layout data in the discrete representation and learns to progressively infer a noiseless layout from the initial input, where we model the layout corruption process by modality-wise discrete diffusion. For conditional generation, we propose to inject layout constraints in the form of masking or logit adjustment during inference. We show in the experiments that our LayoutDM successfully generates high-quality layouts and outperforms both task-specific and task-agnostic baselines on several layout tasks. 

**Title:** TransNetR: Transformer-based Residual Network for Polyp Segmentation  with Multi-Center Out-of-Distribution Testing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07428

**Abstract:** Colonoscopy is considered the most effective screening test to detect colorectal cancer (CRC) and its precursor lesions, i.e., polyps. However, the procedure experiences high miss rates due to polyp heterogeneity and inter-observer dependency. Hence, several deep learning powered systems have been proposed considering the criticality of polyp detection and segmentation in clinical practices. Despite achieving improved outcomes, the existing automated approaches are inefficient in attaining real-time processing speed. Moreover, they suffer from a significant performance drop when evaluated on inter-patient data, especially those collected from different centers. Therefore, we intend to develop a novel real-time deep learning based architecture, Transformer based Residual network (TransNetR), for colon polyp segmentation and evaluate its diagnostic performance. The proposed architecture, TransNetR, is an encoder-decoder network that consists of a pre-trained ResNet50 as the encoder, three decoder blocks, and an upsampling layer at the end of the network. TransNetR obtains a high dice coefficient of 0.8706 and a mean Intersection over union of 0.8016 and retains a real-time processing speed of 54.60 on the Kvasir-SEG dataset. Apart from this, the major contribution of the work lies in exploring the generalizability of the TransNetR by testing the proposed algorithm on the out-of-distribution (test distribution is unknown and different from training distribution) dataset. As a use case, we tested our proposed algorithm on the PolypGen (6 unique centers) dataset and two other popular polyp segmentation benchmarking datasets. We obtained state-of-the-art performance on all three datasets during out-of-distribution testing. The source code of TransNetR will be made publicly available at https://github.com/DebeshJha. 

**Title:** Using VAEs to Learn Latent Variables: Observations on Applications in  cryo-EM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07487

**Abstract:** Variational autoencoders (VAEs) are a popular generative model used to approximate distributions. The encoder part of the VAE is used in amortized learning of latent variables, producing a latent representation for data samples. Recently, VAEs have been used to characterize physical and biological systems. In this case study, we qualitatively examine the amortization properties of a VAE used in biological applications. We find that in this application the encoder bears a qualitative resemblance to more traditional explicit representation of latent variables. 

**Title:** Koos Classification of Vestibular Schwannoma via Image Translation-Based  Unsupervised Cross-Modality Domain Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07674

**Abstract:** The Koos grading scale is a classification system for vestibular schwannoma (VS) used to characterize the tumor and its effects on adjacent brain structures. The Koos classification captures many of the characteristics of treatment deci-sions and is often used to determine treatment plans. Although both contrast-enhanced T1 (ceT1) scanning and high-resolution T2 (hrT2) scanning can be used for Koos Classification, hrT2 scanning is gaining interest because of its higher safety and cost-effectiveness. However, in the absence of annotations for hrT2 scans, deep learning methods often inevitably suffer from performance deg-radation due to unsupervised learning. If ceT1 scans and their annotations can be used for unsupervised learning of hrT2 scans, the performance of Koos classifi-cation using unlabeled hrT2 scans will be greatly improved. In this regard, we propose an unsupervised cross-modality domain adaptation method based on im-age translation by transforming annotated ceT1 scans into hrT2 modality and us-ing their annotations to achieve supervised learning of hrT2 modality. Then, the VS and 7 adjacent brain structures related to Koos classification in hrT2 scans were segmented. Finally, handcrafted features are extracted from the segmenta-tion results, and Koos grade is classified using a random forest classifier. The proposed method received rank 1 on the Koos classification task of the Cross-Modality Domain Adaptation (crossMoDA 2022) challenge, with Macro-Averaged Mean Absolute Error (MA-MAE) of 0.2148 for the validation set and 0.26 for the test set. 

**Title:** Generalised Scale-Space Properties for Probabilistic Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07900

**Abstract:** Probabilistic diffusion models enjoy increasing popularity in the deep learning community. They generate convincing samples from a learned distribution of input images with a wide field of practical applications. Originally, these approaches were motivated from drift-diffusion processes, but these origins find less attention in recent, practice-oriented publications. 

**Title:** Molecular Communication for Quorum Sensing Inspired Cooperative Drug  Delivery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08015

**Abstract:** A cooperative drug delivery system is proposed, where quorum sensing (QS), a density-dependent bacterial behavior coordination mechanism, is employed by synthetic bacterium-based nanomachines (B-NMs) for controllable drug delivery. In our proposed system, drug delivery is only triggered when there are enough QS molecules, which in turn only happens when there are enough B-NMs. This makes the proposed system can be used to achieve a high release rate of drug molecules from a high number of B-NMs when the population density of B-NMs may not be known. Analytical expressions for i) the expected activation probability of the B-NM due to randomly-distributed B-NMs and ii) the expected aggregate absorption rate of drug molecules due to randomly-distributed QS activated B-NMs are derived. Analytical results are verified by particle-based simulations. The derived results can help to predict and control the impact of environmental factors (e.g. diffusion coefficient and degradation rate) on the absorption rate of drug molecules since rigorous diffusion-based molecular channels are considered. Our results show that the activation probability at the B-NM increases as this B-NM is located closer to the center of the B-NM population and the aggregate absorption rate of the drug molecules non-linearly increases as the population density increases. 

**Title:** Ultra-High-Resolution Detector Simulation with Intra-Event Aware GAN and  Self-Supervised Relational Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08046

**Abstract:** Simulating high-resolution detector responses is a storage-costly and computationally intensive process that has long been challenging in particle physics. Despite the ability of deep generative models to make this process more cost-efficient, ultra-high-resolution detector simulation still proves to be difficult as it contains correlated and fine-grained mutual information within an event. To overcome these limitations, we propose Intra-Event Aware GAN (IEA-GAN), a novel fusion of Self-Supervised Learning and Generative Adversarial Networks. IEA-GAN presents a Relational Reasoning Module that approximates the concept of an ''event'' in detector simulation, allowing for the generation of correlated layer-dependent contextualized images for high-resolution detector responses with a proper relational inductive bias. IEA-GAN also introduces a new intra-event aware loss and a Uniformity loss, resulting in significant enhancements to image fidelity and diversity. We demonstrate IEA-GAN's application in generating sensor-dependent images for the high-granularity Pixel Vertex Detector (PXD), with more than 7.5M information channels and a non-trivial geometry, at the Belle II Experiment. Applications of this work include controllable simulation-based inference and event generation, high-granularity detector simulation such as at the HL-LHC (High Luminosity LHC), and fine-grained density estimation and sampling. To the best of our knowledge, IEA-GAN is the first algorithm for faithful ultra-high-resolution detector simulation with event-based reasoning. 

**Title:** Point Cloud Diffusion Models for Automatic Implant Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.08061

**Abstract:** Advances in 3D printing of biocompatible materials make patient-specific implants increasingly popular. The design of these implants is, however, still a tedious and largely manual process. Existing approaches to automate implant generation are mainly based on 3D U-Net architectures on downsampled or patch-wise data, which can result in a loss of detail or contextual information. Following the recent success of Diffusion Probabilistic Models, we propose a novel approach for implant generation based on a combination of 3D point cloud diffusion models and voxelization networks. Due to the stochastic sampling process in our diffusion model, we can propose an ensemble of different implants per defect, from which the physicians can choose the most suitable one. We evaluate our method on the SkullBreak and SkullFix datasets, generating high-quality implants and achieving competitive evaluation scores. 

