**Title:** Scamming the Scammers: Using ChatGPT to Reply Mails for Wasting Time and  Resources  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13521

**Abstract:** The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to support cybersecurity operations is now a consolidated practice, e.g., to detect malicious code or configure traffic filtering policies. The recent surge of AI, generative techniques and frameworks with efficient natural language processing capabilities dramatically magnifies the number of possible applications aimed at increasing the security of the Internet. Specifically, the ability of ChatGPT to produce textual contents while mimicking realistic human interactions can be used to mitigate the plague of emails containing scams. Therefore, this paper investigates the use of AI to engage scammers in automatized and pointless communications, with the goal of wasting both their time and resources. Preliminary results showcase that ChatGPT is able to decoy scammers, thus confirming that AI is an effective tool to counteract threats delivered via mail. In addition, we highlight the multitude of implications and open research questions to be addressed in the perspective of the ubiquitous adoption of AI. 

**Title:** Talking Abortion (Mis)information with ChatGPT on TikTok  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13524

**Abstract:** In this study, we tested users' perception of accuracy and engagement with TikTok videos in which ChatGPT responded to prompts about "at-home" abortion remedies. The chatbot's responses, though somewhat vague and confusing, nonetheless recommended consulting with health professionals before attempting an "at-home" abortion. We used ChatGPT to create two TikTok video variants - one where users can see ChatGPT explicitly typing back a response, and one where the text response is presented without any notion to the chatbot. We randomly exposed 100 participants to each variant and found that the group of participants unaware of ChatGPT's text synthetization was more inclined to believe the responses were misinformation. Under the same impression, TikTok itself attached misinformation warning labels ("Get the facts about abortion") to all videos after we collected our initial results. We then decided to test the videos again with another set of 50 participants and found that the labels did not affect the perceptions of abortion misinformation except in the case where ChatGPT explicitly responded to a prompt for a lyrical output. We also found that more than 60% of the participants expressed negative or hesitant opinions about chatbots as sources of credible health information. 

**Title:** A comprehensive evaluation of ChatGPT's zero-shot Text-to-SQL capability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13547

**Abstract:** This paper presents the first comprehensive analysis of ChatGPT's Text-to-SQL ability. Given the recent emergence of large-scale conversational language model ChatGPT and its impressive capabilities in both conversational abilities and code generation, we sought to evaluate its Text-to-SQL performance. We conducted experiments on 12 benchmark datasets with different languages, settings, or scenarios, and the results demonstrate that ChatGPT has strong text-to-SQL abilities. Although there is still a gap from the current state-of-the-art (SOTA) model performance, considering that the experiment was conducted in a zero-shot scenario, ChatGPT's performance is still impressive. Notably, in the ADVETA (RPL) scenario, the zero-shot ChatGPT even outperforms the SOTA model that requires fine-tuning on the Spider dataset by 4.1\%, demonstrating its potential for use in practical applications. To support further research in related fields, we have made the data generated by ChatGPT publicly available at https://github.com/THU-BPM/chatgpt-sql. 

**Title:** Efficient hybrid modeling and sorption model discovery for non-linear  advection-diffusion-sorption systems: A systematic scientific machine  learning approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13555

**Abstract:** This study presents a systematic machine learning approach for creating efficient hybrid models and discovering sorption uptake models in non-linear advection-diffusion-sorption systems. It demonstrates an effective method to train these complex systems using gradientbased optimizers, adjoint sensitivity analysis, and JIT-compiled vector Jacobian products, combined with spatial discretization and adaptive integrators. Sparse and symbolic regression were employed to identify missing functions in the artificial neural network. The robustness of the proposed method was tested on an in-silico data set of noisy breakthrough curve observations of fixed-bed adsorption, resulting in a well-fitted hybrid model. The study successfully reconstructed sorption uptake kinetics using sparse and symbolic regression, and accurately predicted breakthrough curves using identified polynomials, highlighting the potential of the proposed framework for discovering sorption kinetic law structures. 

**Title:** Enhancing Unsupervised Speech Recognition with Diffusion GANs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13559

**Abstract:** We enhance the vanilla adversarial training method for unsupervised Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) by a diffusion-GAN. Our model (1) injects instance noises of various intensities to the generator's output and unlabeled reference text which are sampled from pretrained phoneme language models with a length constraint, (2) asks diffusion timestep-dependent discriminators to separate them, and (3) back-propagates the gradients to update the generator. Word/phoneme error rate comparisons with wav2vec-U under Librispeech (3.1% for test-clean and 5.6% for test-other), TIMIT and MLS datasets, show that our enhancement strategies work effectively. 

**Title:** MoGDE: Boosting Mobile Monocular 3D Object Detection with Ground Depth  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13561

**Abstract:** Monocular 3D object detection (Mono3D) in mobile settings (e.g., on a vehicle, a drone, or a robot) is an important yet challenging task. Due to the near-far disparity phenomenon of monocular vision and the ever-changing camera pose, it is hard to acquire high detection accuracy, especially for far objects. Inspired by the insight that the depth of an object can be well determined according to the depth of the ground where it stands, in this paper, we propose a novel Mono3D framework, called MoGDE, which constantly estimates the corresponding ground depth of an image and then utilizes the estimated ground depth information to guide Mono3D. To this end, we utilize a pose detection network to estimate the pose of the camera and then construct a feature map portraying pixel-level ground depth according to the 3D-to-2D perspective geometry. Moreover, to improve Mono3D with the estimated ground depth, we design an RGB-D feature fusion network based on the transformer structure, where the long-range self-attention mechanism is utilized to effectively identify ground-contacting points and pin the corresponding ground depth to the image feature map. We conduct extensive experiments on the real-world KITTI dataset. The results demonstrate that MoGDE can effectively improve the Mono3D accuracy and robustness for both near and far objects. MoGDE yields the best performance compared with the state-of-the-art methods by a large margin and is ranked number one on the KITTI 3D benchmark. 

**Title:** Inheriting Bayer's Legacy-Joint Remosaicing and Denoising for Quad Bayer  Image Sensor  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13571

**Abstract:** Pixel binning based Quad sensors have emerged as a promising solution to overcome the hardware limitations of compact cameras in low-light imaging. However, binning results in lower spatial resolution and non-Bayer CFA artifacts. To address these challenges, we propose a dual-head joint remosaicing and denoising network (DJRD), which enables the conversion of noisy Quad Bayer and standard noise-free Bayer pattern without any resolution loss. DJRD includes a newly designed Quad Bayer remosaicing (QB-Re) block, integrated denoising modules based on Swin-transformer and multi-scale wavelet transform. The QB-Re block constructs the convolution kernel based on the CFA pattern to achieve a periodic color distribution in the perceptual field, which is used to extract exact spectral information and reduce color misalignment. The integrated Swin-Transformer and multi-scale wavelet transform capture non-local dependencies, frequency and location information to effectively reduce practical noise. By identifying challenging patches utilizing Moire and zipper detection metrics, we enable our model to concentrate on difficult patches during the post-training phase, which enhances the model's performance in hard cases. Our proposed model outperforms competing models by approximately 3dB, without additional complexity in hardware or software. 

**Title:** SCADE: NeRFs from Space Carving with Ambiguity-Aware Depth Estimates  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13582

**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have enabled high fidelity 3D reconstruction from multiple 2D input views. However, a well-known drawback of NeRFs is the less-than-ideal performance under a small number of views, due to insufficient constraints enforced by volumetric rendering. To address this issue, we introduce SCADE, a novel technique that improves NeRF reconstruction quality on sparse, unconstrained input views for in-the-wild indoor scenes. To constrain NeRF reconstruction, we leverage geometric priors in the form of per-view depth estimates produced with state-of-the-art monocular depth estimation models, which can generalize across scenes. A key challenge is that monocular depth estimation is an ill-posed problem, with inherent ambiguities. To handle this issue, we propose a new method that learns to predict, for each view, a continuous, multimodal distribution of depth estimates using conditional Implicit Maximum Likelihood Estimation (cIMLE). In order to disambiguate exploiting multiple views, we introduce an original space carving loss that guides the NeRF representation to fuse multiple hypothesized depth maps from each view and distill from them a common geometry that is consistent with all views. Experiments show that our approach enables higher fidelity novel view synthesis from sparse views. Our project page can be found at https://scade-spacecarving-nerfs.github.io . 

**Title:** Prompting Large Language Models to Generate Code-Mixed Texts: The Case  of South East Asian Languages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13592

**Abstract:** While code-mixing is a common linguistic practice in many parts of the world, collecting high-quality and low-cost code-mixed data remains a challenge for natural language processing (NLP) research. The proliferation of Large Language Models (LLMs) in recent times compels one to ask: can these systems be used for data generation? In this article, we explore prompting LLMs in a zero-shot manner to create code-mixed data for five languages in South East Asia (SEA) -- Indonesian, Malay, Chinese, Tagalog, Vietnamese, as well as the creole language Singlish. We find that ChatGPT shows the most potential, capable of producing code-mixed text 68% of the time when the term "code-mixing" is explicitly defined. Moreover, both ChatGPT and InstructGPT's (davinci-003) performances in generating Singlish texts are noteworthy, averaging a 96% success rate across a variety of prompts. The code-mixing proficiency of ChatGPT and InstructGPT, however, is dampened by word choice errors that lead to semantic inaccuracies. Other multilingual models such as BLOOMZ and Flan-T5-XXL are unable to produce code-mixed texts altogether. By highlighting the limited promises of LLMs in a specific form of low-resource data generation, we call for a measured approach when applying similar techniques to other data-scarce NLP contexts. 

**Title:** ChatGPT or Grammarly? Evaluating ChatGPT on Grammatical Error Correction  Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13648

**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a cutting-edge artificial intelligence language model developed by OpenAI, which has attracted a lot of attention due to its surprisingly strong ability in answering follow-up questions. In this report, we aim to evaluate ChatGPT on the Grammatical Error Correction(GEC) task, and compare it with commercial GEC product (e.g., Grammarly) and state-of-the-art models (e.g., GECToR). By testing on the CoNLL2014 benchmark dataset, we find that ChatGPT performs not as well as those baselines in terms of the automatic evaluation metrics (e.g., $F_{0.5}$ score), particularly on long sentences. We inspect the outputs and find that ChatGPT goes beyond one-by-one corrections. Specifically, it prefers to change the surface expression of certain phrases or sentence structure while maintaining grammatical correctness. Human evaluation quantitatively confirms this and suggests that ChatGPT produces less under-correction or mis-correction issues but more over-corrections. These results demonstrate that ChatGPT is severely under-estimated by the automatic evaluation metrics and could be a promising tool for GEC. 

**Title:** Primer: Fast Private Transformer Inference on Encrypted Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13679

**Abstract:** It is increasingly important to enable privacy-preserving inference for cloud services based on Transformers. Post-quantum cryptographic techniques, e.g., fully homomorphic encryption (FHE), and multi-party computation (MPC), are popular methods to support private Transformer inference. However, existing works still suffer from prohibitively computational and communicational overhead. In this work, we present, Primer, to enable a fast and accurate Transformer over encrypted data for natural language processing tasks. In particular, Primer is constructed by a hybrid cryptographic protocol optimized for attention-based Transformer models, as well as techniques including computation merge and tokens-first ciphertext packing. Comprehensive experiments on encrypted language modeling show that Primer achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and reduces the inference latency by 90.6% ~ 97.5% over previous methods. 

**Title:** End-to-End Diffusion Latent Optimization Improves Classifier Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13703

**Abstract:** Classifier guidance -- using the gradients of an image classifier to steer the generations of a diffusion model -- has the potential to dramatically expand the creative control over image generation and editing. However, currently classifier guidance requires either training new noise-aware models to obtain accurate gradients or using a one-step denoising approximation of the final generation, which leads to misaligned gradients and sub-optimal control. We highlight this approximation's shortcomings and propose a novel guidance method: Direct Optimization of Diffusion Latents (DOODL), which enables plug-and-play guidance by optimizing diffusion latents w.r.t. the gradients of a pre-trained classifier on the true generated pixels, using an invertible diffusion process to achieve memory-efficient backpropagation. Showcasing the potential of more precise guidance, DOODL outperforms one-step classifier guidance on computational and human evaluation metrics across different forms of guidance: using CLIP guidance to improve generations of complex prompts from DrawBench, using fine-grained visual classifiers to expand the vocabulary of Stable Diffusion, enabling image-conditioned generation with a CLIP visual encoder, and improving image aesthetics using an aesthetic scoring network. 

**Title:** High Fidelity Image Synthesis With Deep VAEs In Latent Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13714

**Abstract:** We present fast, realistic image generation on high-resolution, multimodal datasets using hierarchical variational autoencoders (VAEs) trained on a deterministic autoencoder's latent space. In this two-stage setup, the autoencoder compresses the image into its semantic features, which are then modeled with a deep VAE. With this method, the VAE avoids modeling the fine-grained details that constitute the majority of the image's code length, allowing it to focus on learning its structural components. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our two-stage approach, achieving a FID of 9.34 on the ImageNet-256 dataset which is comparable to BigGAN. We make our implementation available online. 

**Title:** Natural language processing to automatically extract the presence and  severity of esophagitis in notes of patients undergoing radiotherapy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13722

**Abstract:** Radiotherapy (RT) toxicities can impair survival and quality-of-life, yet remain under-studied. Real-world evidence holds potential to improve our understanding of toxicities, but toxicity information is often only in clinical notes. We developed natural language processing (NLP) models to identify the presence and severity of esophagitis from notes of patients treated with thoracic RT. We fine-tuned statistical and pre-trained BERT-based models for three esophagitis classification tasks: Task 1) presence of esophagitis, Task 2) severe esophagitis or not, and Task 3) no esophagitis vs. grade 1 vs. grade 2-3. Transferability was tested on 345 notes from patients with esophageal cancer undergoing RT. 

**Title:** How Does Attention Work in Vision Transformers? A Visual Analytics  Attempt  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13731

**Abstract:** Vision transformer (ViT) expands the success of transformer models from sequential data to images. The model decomposes an image into many smaller patches and arranges them into a sequence. Multi-head self-attentions are then applied to the sequence to learn the attention between patches. Despite many successful interpretations of transformers on sequential data, little effort has been devoted to the interpretation of ViTs, and many questions remain unanswered. For example, among the numerous attention heads, which one is more important? How strong are individual patches attending to their spatial neighbors in different heads? What attention patterns have individual heads learned? In this work, we answer these questions through a visual analytics approach. Specifically, we first identify what heads are more important in ViTs by introducing multiple pruning-based metrics. Then, we profile the spatial distribution of attention strengths between patches inside individual heads, as well as the trend of attention strengths across attention layers. Third, using an autoencoder-based learning solution, we summarize all possible attention patterns that individual heads could learn. Examining the attention strengths and patterns of the important heads, we answer why they are important. Through concrete case studies with experienced deep learning experts on multiple ViTs, we validate the effectiveness of our solution that deepens the understanding of ViTs from head importance, head attention strength, and head attention pattern. 

**Title:** MoWE: Mixture of Weather Experts for Multiple Adverse Weather Removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13739

**Abstract:** Currently, most adverse weather removal tasks are handled independently, such as deraining, desnowing, and dehazing. However, in autonomous driving scenarios, the type, intensity, and mixing degree of the weather are unknown, so the separated task setting cannot deal with these complex conditions well. Besides, the vision applications in autonomous driving often aim at high-level tasks, but existing weather removal methods neglect the connection between performance on perceptual tasks and signal fidelity. To this end, in upstream task, we propose a novel \textbf{Mixture of Weather Experts(MoWE)} Transformer framework to handle complex weather removal in a perception-aware fashion. We design a \textbf{Weather-aware Router} to make the experts targeted more relevant to weather types while without the need for weather type labels during inference. To handle diverse weather conditions, we propose \textbf{Multi-scale Experts} to fuse information among neighbor tokens. In downstream task, we propose a \textbf{Label-free Perception-aware Metric} to measure whether the outputs of image processing models are suitable for high level perception tasks without the demand for semantic labels. We collect a syntactic dataset \textbf{MAW-Sim} towards autonomous driving scenarios to benchmark the multiple weather removal performance of existing methods. Our MoWE achieves SOTA performance in upstream task on the proposed dataset and two public datasets, i.e. All-Weather and Rain/Fog-Cityscapes, and also have better perceptual results in downstream segmentation task compared to other methods. Our codes and datasets will be released after acceptance. 

**Title:** TEGLO: High Fidelity Canonical Texture Mapping from Single-View Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13743

**Abstract:** Recent work in Neural Fields (NFs) learn 3D representations from class-specific single view image collections. However, they are unable to reconstruct the input data preserving high-frequency details. Further, these methods do not disentangle appearance from geometry and hence are not suitable for tasks such as texture transfer and editing. In this work, we propose TEGLO (Textured EG3D-GLO) for learning 3D representations from single view in-the-wild image collections for a given class of objects. We accomplish this by training a conditional Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) without any explicit 3D supervision. We equip our method with editing capabilities by creating a dense correspondence mapping to a 2D canonical space. We demonstrate that such mapping enables texture transfer and texture editing without requiring meshes with shared topology. Our key insight is that by mapping the input image pixels onto the texture space we can achieve near perfect reconstruction (>= 74 dB PSNR at 1024^2 resolution). Our formulation allows for high quality 3D consistent novel view synthesis with high-frequency details at megapixel image resolution. 

**Title:** Conditional Image-to-Video Generation with Latent Flow Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13744

**Abstract:** Conditional image-to-video (cI2V) generation aims to synthesize a new plausible video starting from an image (e.g., a person's face) and a condition (e.g., an action class label like smile). The key challenge of the cI2V task lies in the simultaneous generation of realistic spatial appearance and temporal dynamics corresponding to the given image and condition. In this paper, we propose an approach for cI2V using novel latent flow diffusion models (LFDM) that synthesize an optical flow sequence in the latent space based on the given condition to warp the given image. Compared to previous direct-synthesis-based works, our proposed LFDM can better synthesize spatial details and temporal motion by fully utilizing the spatial content of the given image and warping it in the latent space according to the generated temporally-coherent flow. The training of LFDM consists of two separate stages: (1) an unsupervised learning stage to train a latent flow auto-encoder for spatial content generation, including a flow predictor to estimate latent flow between pairs of video frames, and (2) a conditional learning stage to train a 3D-UNet-based diffusion model (DM) for temporal latent flow generation. Unlike previous DMs operating in pixel space or latent feature space that couples spatial and temporal information, the DM in our LFDM only needs to learn a low-dimensional latent flow space for motion generation, thus being more computationally efficient. We conduct comprehensive experiments on multiple datasets, where LFDM consistently outperforms prior arts. Furthermore, we show that LFDM can be easily adapted to new domains by simply finetuning the image decoder. Our code is available at https://github.com/nihaomiao/CVPR23_LFDM. 

**Title:** EdgeTran: Co-designing Transformers for Efficient Inference on Mobile  Edge Platforms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13745

**Abstract:** Automated design of efficient transformer models has recently attracted significant attention from industry and academia. However, most works only focus on certain metrics while searching for the best-performing transformer architecture. Furthermore, running traditional, complex, and large transformer models on low-compute edge platforms is a challenging problem. In this work, we propose a framework, called ProTran, to profile the hardware performance measures for a design space of transformer architectures and a diverse set of edge devices. We use this profiler in conjunction with the proposed co-design technique to obtain the best-performing models that have high accuracy on the given task and minimize latency, energy consumption, and peak power draw to enable edge deployment. We refer to our framework for co-optimizing accuracy and hardware performance measures as EdgeTran. It searches for the best transformer model and edge device pair. Finally, we propose GPTran, a multi-stage block-level grow-and-prune post-processing step that further improves accuracy in a hardware-aware manner. The obtained transformer model is 2.8$\times$ smaller and has a 0.8% higher GLUE score than the baseline (BERT-Base). Inference with it on the selected edge device enables 15.0% lower latency, 10.0$\times$ lower energy, and 10.8$\times$ lower peak power draw compared to an off-the-shelf GPU. 

**Title:** Higher order time discretization method for a class of semilinear  stochastic partial differential equations with multiplicative noise  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13766

**Abstract:** In this paper, we consider a new approach for semi-discretization in time and spatial discretization of a class of semi-linear stochastic partial differential equations (SPDEs) with multiplicative noise. The drift term of the SPDEs is only assumed to satisfy a one-sided Lipschitz condition and the diffusion term is assumed to be globally Lipschitz continuous. Our new strategy for time discretization is based on the Milstein method from stochastic differential equations. We use the energy method for its error analysis and show a strong convergence order of nearly $1$ for the approximate solution. The proof is based on new H\"older continuity estimates of the SPDE solution and the nonlinear term. For the general polynomial-type drift term, there are difficulties in deriving even the stability of the numerical solutions. We propose an interpolation-based finite element method for spatial discretization to overcome the difficulties. Then we obtain $H^1$ stability, higher moment $H^1$ stability, $L^2$ stability, and higher moment $L^2$ stability results using numerical and stochastic techniques. The nearly optimal convergence orders in time and space are hence obtained by coupling all previous results. Numerical experiments are presented to implement the proposed numerical scheme and to validate the theoretical results. 

**Title:** GM-NeRF: Learning Generalizable Model-based Neural Radiance Fields from  Multi-view Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13777

**Abstract:** In this work, we focus on synthesizing high-fidelity novel view images for arbitrary human performers, given a set of sparse multi-view images. It is a challenging task due to the large variation among articulated body poses and heavy self-occlusions. To alleviate this, we introduce an effective generalizable framework Generalizable Model-based Neural Radiance Fields (GM-NeRF) to synthesize free-viewpoint images. Specifically, we propose a geometry-guided attention mechanism to register the appearance code from multi-view 2D images to a geometry proxy which can alleviate the misalignment between inaccurate geometry prior and pixel space. On top of that, we further conduct neural rendering and partial gradient backpropagation for efficient perceptual supervision and improvement of the perceptual quality of synthesis. To evaluate our method, we conduct experiments on synthesized datasets THuman2.0 and Multi-garment, and real-world datasets Genebody and ZJUMocap. The results demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of novel view synthesis and geometric reconstruction. 

**Title:** Towards Making the Most of ChatGPT for Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13780

**Abstract:** ChatGPT shows remarkable capabilities for machine translation (MT). Several prior studies have shown that it achieves comparable results to commercial systems for high-resource languages, but lags behind in complex tasks, e.g, low-resource and distant-language-pairs translation. However, they usually adopt simple prompts which can not fully elicit the capability of ChatGPT. In this report, we aim to further mine ChatGPT's translation ability by revisiting several aspects: temperature, task information, and domain information, and correspondingly propose two (simple but effective) prompts: Task-Specific Prompts (TSP) and Domain-Specific Prompts (DSP). We show that: 1) The performance of ChatGPT depends largely on temperature, and a lower temperature usually can achieve better performance; 2) Emphasizing the task information further improves ChatGPT's performance, particularly in complex MT tasks; 3) Introducing domain information can elicit ChatGPT's generalization ability and improve its performance in the specific domain; 4) ChatGPT tends to generate hallucinations for non-English-centric MT tasks, which can be partially addressed by our proposed prompts but still need to be highlighted for the MT/NLP community. We also explore the effects of advanced in-context learning strategies and find a (negative but interesting) observation: the powerful chain-of-thought prompt leads to word-by-word translation behavior, thus bringing significant translation degradation. 

**Title:** Personalizing Task-oriented Dialog Systems via Zero-shot Generalizable  Reward Function  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13797

**Abstract:** Task-oriented dialog systems enable users to accomplish tasks using natural language. State-of-the-art systems respond to users in the same way regardless of their personalities, although personalizing dialogues can lead to higher levels of adoption and better user experiences. Building personalized dialog systems is an important, yet challenging endeavor and only a handful of works took on the challenge. Most existing works rely on supervised learning approaches and require laborious and expensive labeled training data for each user profile. Additionally, collecting and labeling data for each user profile is virtually impossible. In this work, we propose a novel framework, P-ToD, to personalize task-oriented dialog systems capable of adapting to a wide range of user profiles in an unsupervised fashion using a zero-shot generalizable reward function. P-ToD uses a pre-trained GPT-2 as a backbone model and works in three phases. Phase one performs task-specific training. Phase two kicks off unsupervised personalization by leveraging the proximal policy optimization algorithm that performs policy gradients guided by the zero-shot generalizable reward function. Our novel reward function can quantify the quality of the generated responses even for unseen profiles. The optional final phase fine-tunes the personalized model using a few labeled training examples. We conduct extensive experimental analysis using the personalized bAbI dialogue benchmark for five tasks and up to 180 diverse user profiles. The experimental results demonstrate that P-ToD, even when it had access to zero labeled examples, outperforms state-of-the-art supervised personalization models and achieves competitive performance on BLEU and ROUGE metrics when compared to a strong fully-supervised GPT-2 baseline 

**Title:** Toward Open-domain Slot Filling via Self-supervised Co-training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13801

**Abstract:** Slot filling is one of the critical tasks in modern conversational systems. The majority of existing literature employs supervised learning methods, which require labeled training data for each new domain. Zero-shot learning and weak supervision approaches, among others, have shown promise as alternatives to manual labeling. Nonetheless, these learning paradigms are significantly inferior to supervised learning approaches in terms of performance. To minimize this performance gap and demonstrate the possibility of open-domain slot filling, we propose a Self-supervised Co-training framework, called SCot, that requires zero in-domain manually labeled training examples and works in three phases. Phase one acquires two sets of complementary pseudo labels automatically. Phase two leverages the power of the pre-trained language model BERT, by adapting it for the slot filling task using these sets of pseudo labels. In phase three, we introduce a self-supervised cotraining mechanism, where both models automatically select highconfidence soft labels to further improve the performance of the other in an iterative fashion. Our thorough evaluations show that SCot outperforms state-of-the-art models by 45.57% and 37.56% on SGD and MultiWoZ datasets, respectively. Moreover, our proposed framework SCot achieves comparable performance when compared to state-of-the-art fully supervised models. 

**Title:** PFT-SSR: Parallax Fusion Transformer for Stereo Image Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13807

**Abstract:** Stereo image super-resolution aims to boost the performance of image super-resolution by exploiting the supplementary information provided by binocular systems. Although previous methods have achieved promising results, they did not fully utilize the information of cross-view and intra-view. To further unleash the potential of binocular images, in this letter, we propose a novel Transformerbased parallax fusion module called Parallax Fusion Transformer (PFT). PFT employs a Cross-view Fusion Transformer (CVFT) to utilize cross-view information and an Intra-view Refinement Transformer (IVRT) for intra-view feature refinement. Meanwhile, we adopted the Swin Transformer as the backbone for feature extraction and SR reconstruction to form a pure Transformer architecture called PFT-SSR. Extensive experiments and ablation studies show that PFT-SSR achieves competitive results and outperforms most SOTA methods. Source code is available at https://github.com/MIVRC/PFT-PyTorch. 

**Title:** Error Analysis Prompting Enables Human-Like Translation Evaluation in  Large Language Models: A Case Study on ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13809

**Abstract:** Generative large language models (LLMs), e.g., ChatGPT, have demonstrated remarkable proficiency across several NLP tasks such as machine translation, question answering, text summarization, and natural language understanding. Recent research has shown that utilizing ChatGPT for assessing the quality of machine translation (MT) achieves state-of-the-art performance at the system level but performs poorly at the segment level. To further improve the performance of LLMs on MT quality assessment, we conducted an investigation into several prompting methods. Our results indicate that by combining Chain-of-Thoughts and Error Analysis, a new prompting method called \textbf{\texttt{Error Analysis Prompting}}, LLMs like ChatGPT can \textit{generate human-like MT evaluations at both the system and segment level}. Additionally, we discovered some limitations of ChatGPT as an MT evaluator, such as unstable scoring and biases when provided with multiple translations in a single query. Our findings aim to provide a preliminary experience for appropriately evaluating translation quality on ChatGPT while offering a variety of tricks in designing prompts for in-context learning. We anticipate that this report will shed new light on advancing the field of translation evaluation with LLMs by enhancing both the accuracy and reliability of metrics. The project can be found in \url{https://github.com/Coldmist-Lu/ErrorAnalysis_Prompt}. 

**Title:** ABLE-NeRF: Attention-Based Rendering with Learnable Embeddings for  Neural Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13817

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a popular method in representing 3D scenes by optimising a continuous volumetric scene function. Its large success which lies in applying volumetric rendering (VR) is also its Achilles' heel in producing view-dependent effects. As a consequence, glossy and transparent surfaces often appear murky. A remedy to reduce these artefacts is to constrain this VR equation by excluding volumes with back-facing normal. While this approach has some success in rendering glossy surfaces, translucent objects are still poorly represented. In this paper, we present an alternative to the physics-based VR approach by introducing a self-attention-based framework on volumes along a ray. In addition, inspired by modern game engines which utilise Light Probes to store local lighting passing through the scene, we incorporate Learnable Embeddings to capture view dependent effects within the scene. Our method, which we call ABLE-NeRF, significantly reduces `blurry' glossy surfaces in rendering and produces realistic translucent surfaces which lack in prior art. In the Blender dataset, ABLE-NeRF achieves SOTA results and surpasses Ref-NeRF in all 3 image quality metrics PSNR, SSIM, LPIPS. 

**Title:** Prior-RadGraphFormer: A Prior-Knowledge-Enhanced Transformer for  Generating Radiology Graphs from X-Rays  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13818

**Abstract:** The extraction of structured clinical information from free-text radiology reports in the form of radiology graphs has been demonstrated to be a valuable approach for evaluating the clinical correctness of report-generation methods. However, the direct generation of radiology graphs from chest X-ray (CXR) images has not been attempted. To address this gap, we propose a novel approach called Prior-RadGraphFormer that utilizes a transformer model with prior knowledge in the form of a probabilistic knowledge graph (PKG) to generate radiology graphs directly from CXR images. The PKG models the statistical relationship between radiology entities, including anatomical structures and medical observations. This additional contextual information enhances the accuracy of entity and relation extraction. The generated radiology graphs can be applied to various downstream tasks, such as free-text or structured reports generation and multi-label classification of pathologies. Our approach represents a promising method for generating radiology graphs directly from CXR images, and has significant potential for improving medical image analysis and clinical decision-making. 

**Title:** HandNeRF: Neural Radiance Fields for Animatable Interacting Hands  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13825

**Abstract:** We propose a novel framework to reconstruct accurate appearance and geometry with neural radiance fields (NeRF) for interacting hands, enabling the rendering of photo-realistic images and videos for gesture animation from arbitrary views. Given multi-view images of a single hand or interacting hands, an off-the-shelf skeleton estimator is first employed to parameterize the hand poses. Then we design a pose-driven deformation field to establish correspondence from those different poses to a shared canonical space, where a pose-disentangled NeRF for one hand is optimized. Such unified modeling efficiently complements the geometry and texture cues in rarely-observed areas for both hands. Meanwhile, we further leverage the pose priors to generate pseudo depth maps as guidance for occlusion-aware density learning. Moreover, a neural feature distillation method is proposed to achieve cross-domain alignment for color optimization. We conduct extensive experiments to verify the merits of our proposed HandNeRF and report a series of state-of-the-art results both qualitatively and quantitatively on the large-scale InterHand2.6M dataset. 

**Title:** Efficient Mixed-Type Wafer Defect Pattern Recognition Using Compact  Deformable Convolutional Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13827

**Abstract:** Manufacturing wafers is an intricate task involving thousands of steps. Defect Pattern Recognition (DPR) of wafer maps is crucial to find the root cause of the issue and further improving the yield in the wafer foundry. Mixed-type DPR is much more complicated compared to single-type DPR due to varied spatial features, the uncertainty of defects, and the number of defects present. To accurately predict the number of defects as well as the types of defects, we propose a novel compact deformable convolutional transformer (DC Transformer). Specifically, DC Transformer focuses on the global features present in the wafer map by virtue of learnable deformable kernels and multi-head attention to the global features. The proposed method succinctly models the internal relationship between the wafer maps and the defects. DC Transformer is evaluated on a real dataset containing 38 defect patterns. Experimental results show that DC Transformer performs exceptionally well in recognizing both single and mixed-type defects. The proposed method outperforms the current state of the models by a considerable margin 

**Title:** Where to Go Next for Recommender Systems? ID- vs. Modality-based  recommender models revisited  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13835

**Abstract:** Recommendation models that utilize unique identities (IDs) to represent distinct users and items have been state-of-the-art (SOTA) and dominated the recommender systems (RS) literature for over a decade. Meanwhile, the pre-trained modality encoders, such as BERT and ViT, have become increasingly powerful in modeling the raw modality features of an item, such as text and images. Given this, a natural question arises: can a purely modality-based recommendation model (MoRec) outperforms or matches a pure ID-based model (IDRec) by replacing the itemID embedding with a SOTA modality encoder? In fact, this question was answered ten years ago when IDRec beats MoRec by a strong margin in both recommendation accuracy and efficiency. We aim to revisit this `old' question and systematically study MoRec from several aspects. Specifically, we study several sub-questions: (i) which recommendation paradigm, MoRec or IDRec, performs better in practical scenarios, especially in the general setting and warm item scenarios where IDRec has a strong advantage? does this hold for items with different modality features? (ii) can the latest technical advances from other communities (i.e., natural language processing and computer vision) translate into accuracy improvement for MoRec? (iii) how to effectively utilize item modality representation, can we use it directly or do we have to adjust it with new data? (iv) are there some key challenges for MoRec to be solved in practical applications? To answer them, we conduct rigorous experiments for item recommendations with two popular modalities, i.e., text and vision. We provide the first empirical evidence that MoRec is already comparable to its IDRec counterpart with an expensive end-to-end training method, even for warm item recommendation. Our results potentially imply that the dominance of IDRec in the RS field may be greatly challenged in the future. 

**Title:** CompoNeRF: Text-guided Multi-object Compositional NeRF with Editable 3D  Scene Layout  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13843

**Abstract:** Recent research endeavors have shown that combining neural radiance fields (NeRFs) with pre-trained diffusion models holds great potential for text-to-3D generation.However, a hurdle is that they often encounter guidance collapse when rendering complex scenes from multi-object texts. Because the text-to-image diffusion models are inherently unconstrained, making them less competent to accurately associate object semantics with specific 3D structures. To address this issue, we propose a novel framework, dubbed CompoNeRF, that explicitly incorporates an editable 3D scene layout to provide effective guidance at the single object (i.e., local) and whole scene (i.e., global) levels. Firstly, we interpret the multi-object text as an editable 3D scene layout containing multiple local NeRFs associated with the object-specific 3D box coordinates and text prompt, which can be easily collected from users. Then, we introduce a global MLP to calibrate the compositional latent features from local NeRFs, which surprisingly improves the view consistency across different local NeRFs. Lastly, we apply the text guidance on global and local levels through their corresponding views to avoid guidance ambiguity. This way, our CompoNeRF allows for flexible scene editing and re-composition of trained local NeRFs into a new scene by manipulating the 3D layout or text prompt. Leveraging the open-source Stable Diffusion model, our CompoNeRF can generate faithful and editable text-to-3D results while opening a potential direction for text-guided multi-object composition via the editable 3D scene layout. 

**Title:** Unleasing ChatGPT on the Metaverse: Savior or Destroyer?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13856

**Abstract:** The incorporation of artificial intelligence (AI) technology, and in particular natural language processing (NLP), is becoming increasingly vital for the development of immersive and interactive metaverse experiences. One such artificial intelligence tool that is gaining traction in the metaverse is ChatGPT, a large language model trained by OpenAI. The article delves into the pros and cons of utilizing ChatGPT for metaverse-based education, entertainment, personalization, and support. Dynamic and personalized experiences are possible with this technology, but there are also legitimate privacy, bias, and ethical issues to consider. This article aims to help readers understand the possible influence of ChatGPT on the metaverse and how it may be used to effectively create a more immersive and engaging virtual environment by evaluating these opportunities and obstacles. 

**Title:** Few Shot Medical Image Segmentation with Cross Attention Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13867

**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation has made significant progress in recent years. Deep learning-based methods are recognized as data-hungry techniques, requiring large amounts of data with manual annotations. However, manual annotation is expensive in the field of medical image analysis, which requires domain-specific expertise. To address this challenge, few-shot learning has the potential to learn new classes from only a few examples. In this work, we propose a novel framework for few-shot medical image segmentation, termed CAT-Net, based on cross masked attention Transformer. Our proposed network mines the correlations between the support image and query image, limiting them to focus only on useful foreground information and boosting the representation capacity of both the support prototype and query features. We further design an iterative refinement framework that refines the query image segmentation iteratively and promotes the support feature in turn. We validated the proposed method on three public datasets: Abd-CT, Abd-MRI, and Card-MRI. Experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of our method compared to state-of-the-art methods and the effectiveness of each component. we will release the source codes of our method upon acceptance. 

**Title:** AI-Generated 6G Internet Design: A Diffusion Model-based Learning  Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13869

**Abstract:** The 6G Internet poses intense demands for intelligent and customized designs to cope with the surging network scale, dynamically time-varying environments, diverse user requirements, and complicated manual configuration. However, traditional rule-based solutions heavily rely on human efforts and expertise, while data-driven intelligent algorithms still lack interpretability and generalization. In this paper, we propose the AIGI (AI-Generated Internet), a novel intention-driven design paradigm for the 6G Internet, which allows operators to quickly generate a variety of customized network solutions and achieve expert-free problem optimization. Driven by the diffusion model-based learning approach, AIGI has great potential to learn the reward-maximizing trajectories, automatically satisfy multiple constraints, adapt to different objectives and scenarios, or even intelligently create novel designs and mechanisms unseen in existing network environments. Finally, we conduct a use case to demonstrate that AIGI can effectively guide the design of transmit power allocation in digital twin-based 6G networks. 

**Title:** Fantasia3D: Disentangling Geometry and Appearance for High-quality  Text-to-3D Content Creation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13873

**Abstract:** Automatic 3D content creation has achieved rapid progress recently due to the availability of pre-trained, large language models and image diffusion models, forming the emerging topic of text-to-3D content creation. Existing text-to-3D methods commonly use implicit scene representations, which couple the geometry and appearance via volume rendering and are suboptimal in terms of recovering finer geometries and achieving photorealistic rendering; consequently, they are less effective for generating high-quality 3D assets. In this work, we propose a new method of Fantasia3D for high-quality text-to-3D content creation. Key to Fantasia3D is the disentangled modeling and learning of geometry and appearance. For geometry learning, we rely on a hybrid scene representation, and propose to encode surface normal extracted from the representation as the input of the image diffusion model. For appearance modeling, we introduce the spatially varying bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) into the text-to-3D task, and learn the surface material for photorealistic rendering of the generated surface. Our disentangled framework is more compatible with popular graphics engines, supporting relighting, editing, and physical simulation of the generated 3D assets. We conduct thorough experiments that show the advantages of our method over existing ones under different text-to-3D task settings. Project page and source codes: https://fantasia3d.github.io/. 

**Title:** Query-Dependent Video Representation for Moment Retrieval and Highlight  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13874

**Abstract:** Recently, video moment retrieval and highlight detection (MR/HD) are being spotlighted as the demand for video understanding is drastically increased. The key objective of MR/HD is to localize the moment and estimate clip-wise accordance level, i.e., saliency score, to the given text query. Although the recent transformer-based models brought some advances, we found that these methods do not fully exploit the information of a given query. For example, the relevance between text query and video contents is sometimes neglected when predicting the moment and its saliency. To tackle this issue, we introduce Query-Dependent DETR (QD-DETR), a detection transformer tailored for MR/HD. As we observe the insignificant role of a given query in transformer architectures, our encoding module starts with cross-attention layers to explicitly inject the context of text query into video representation. Then, to enhance the model's capability of exploiting the query information, we manipulate the video-query pairs to produce irrelevant pairs. Such negative (irrelevant) video-query pairs are trained to yield low saliency scores, which in turn, encourages the model to estimate precise accordance between query-video pairs. Lastly, we present an input-adaptive saliency predictor which adaptively defines the criterion of saliency scores for the given video-query pairs. Our extensive studies verify the importance of building the query-dependent representation for MR/HD. Specifically, QD-DETR outperforms state-of-the-art methods on QVHighlights, TVSum, and Charades-STA datasets. Codes are available at github.com/wjun0830/QD-DETR. 

**Title:** Wave-U-Net Discriminator: Fast and Lightweight Discriminator for  Generative Adversarial Network-Based Speech Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13909

**Abstract:** In speech synthesis, a generative adversarial network (GAN), training a generator (speech synthesizer) and a discriminator in a min-max game, is widely used to improve speech quality. An ensemble of discriminators is commonly used in recent neural vocoders (e.g., HiFi-GAN) and end-to-end text-to-speech (TTS) systems (e.g., VITS) to scrutinize waveforms from multiple perspectives. Such discriminators allow synthesized speech to adequately approach real speech; however, they require an increase in the model size and computation time according to the increase in the number of discriminators. Alternatively, this study proposes a Wave-U-Net discriminator, which is a single but expressive discriminator with Wave-U-Net architecture. This discriminator is unique; it can assess a waveform in a sample-wise manner with the same resolution as the input signal, while extracting multilevel features via an encoder and decoder with skip connections. This architecture provides a generator with sufficiently rich information for the synthesized speech to be closely matched to the real speech. During the experiments, the proposed ideas were applied to a representative neural vocoder (HiFi-GAN) and an end-to-end TTS system (VITS). The results demonstrate that the proposed models can achieve comparable speech quality with a 2.31 times faster and 14.5 times more lightweight discriminator when used in HiFi-GAN and a 1.90 times faster and 9.62 times more lightweight discriminator when used in VITS. Audio samples are available at https://www.kecl.ntt.co.jp/people/kaneko.takuhiro/projects/waveunetd/. 

**Title:** MSdocTr-Lite: A Lite Transformer for Full Page Multi-script Handwriting  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13931

**Abstract:** The Transformer has quickly become the dominant architecture for various pattern recognition tasks due to its capacity for long-range representation. However, transformers are data-hungry models and need large datasets for training. In Handwritten Text Recognition (HTR), collecting a massive amount of labeled data is a complicated and expensive task. In this paper, we propose a lite transformer architecture for full-page multi-script handwriting recognition. The proposed model comes with three advantages: First, to solve the common problem of data scarcity, we propose a lite transformer model that can be trained on a reasonable amount of data, which is the case of most HTR public datasets, without the need for external data. Second, it can learn the reading order at page-level thanks to a curriculum learning strategy, allowing it to avoid line segmentation errors, exploit a larger context and reduce the need for costly segmentation annotations. Third, it can be easily adapted to other scripts by applying a simple transfer-learning process using only page-level labeled images. Extensive experiments on different datasets with different scripts (French, English, Spanish, and Arabic) show the effectiveness of the proposed model. 

**Title:** Generative AI Assistants in Software Development Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13936

**Abstract:** The software development industry is amid another potentially disruptive paradigm change--adopting the use of generative AI (GAI) assistants for software development. Whilst AI is already used in various areas of software engineering, GAI technologies, such as GitHub Copilot and ChatGPT, have ignited the imaginations (and fears) of many people. Whilst it is unclear how the industry will adopt and adapt to these technologies, the move to integrate these technologies into the wider industry by large software companies, such as Microsoft (GitHub, Bing) and Google (Bard), is a clear indication of intent and direction. We performed exploratory interviews with industry professionals to understand current practices and challenges, which we incorporate into our vision of a future of software development education and make some pedagogical recommendations. 

**Title:** StereoScene: BEV-Assisted Stereo Matching Empowers 3D Semantic Scene  Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13959

**Abstract:** 3D semantic scene completion (SSC) is an ill-posed task that requires inferring a dense 3D scene from incomplete observations. Previous methods either explicitly incorporate 3D geometric input or rely on learnt 3D prior behind monocular RGB images. However, 3D sensors such as LiDAR are expensive and intrusive while monocular cameras face challenges in modeling precise geometry due to the inherent ambiguity. In this work, we propose StereoScene for 3D Semantic Scene Completion (SSC), which explores taking full advantage of light-weight camera inputs without resorting to any external 3D sensors. Our key insight is to leverage stereo matching to resolve geometric ambiguity. To improve its robustness in unmatched areas, we introduce bird's-eye-view (BEV) representation to inspire hallucination ability with rich context information. On top of the stereo and BEV representations, a mutual interactive aggregation (MIA) module is carefully devised to fully unleash their power. Specifically, a Bi-directional Interaction Transformer (BIT) augmented with confidence re-weighting is used to encourage reliable prediction through mutual guidance while a Dual Volume Aggregation (DVA) module is designed to facilitate complementary aggregation. Experimental results on SemanticKITTI demonstrate that the proposed StereoScene outperforms the state-of-the-art camera-based methods by a large margin with a relative improvement of 26.9% in geometry and 38.6% in semantic. 

**Title:** Paraphrase Detection: Human vs. Machine Content  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13989

**Abstract:** The growing prominence of large language models, such as GPT-4 and ChatGPT, has led to increased concerns over academic integrity due to the potential for machine-generated content and paraphrasing. Although studies have explored the detection of human- and machine-paraphrased content, the comparison between these types of content remains underexplored. In this paper, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of various datasets commonly employed for paraphrase detection tasks and evaluate an array of detection methods. Our findings highlight the strengths and limitations of different detection methods in terms of performance on individual datasets, revealing a lack of suitable machine-generated datasets that can be aligned with human expectations. Our main finding is that human-authored paraphrases exceed machine-generated ones in terms of difficulty, diversity, and similarity implying that automatically generated texts are not yet on par with human-level performance. Transformers emerged as the most effective method across datasets with TF-IDF excelling on semantically diverse corpora. Additionally, we identify four datasets as the most diverse and challenging for paraphrase detection. 

**Title:** Grid-guided Neural Radiance Fields for Large Urban Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14001

**Abstract:** Purely MLP-based neural radiance fields (NeRF-based methods) often suffer from underfitting with blurred renderings on large-scale scenes due to limited model capacity. Recent approaches propose to geographically divide the scene and adopt multiple sub-NeRFs to model each region individually, leading to linear scale-up in training costs and the number of sub-NeRFs as the scene expands. An alternative solution is to use a feature grid representation, which is computationally efficient and can naturally scale to a large scene with increased grid resolutions. However, the feature grid tends to be less constrained and often reaches suboptimal solutions, producing noisy artifacts in renderings, especially in regions with complex geometry and texture. In this work, we present a new framework that realizes high-fidelity rendering on large urban scenes while being computationally efficient. We propose to use a compact multiresolution ground feature plane representation to coarsely capture the scene, and complement it with positional encoding inputs through another NeRF branch for rendering in a joint learning fashion. We show that such an integration can utilize the advantages of two alternative solutions: a light-weighted NeRF is sufficient, under the guidance of the feature grid representation, to render photorealistic novel views with fine details; and the jointly optimized ground feature planes, can meanwhile gain further refinements, forming a more accurate and compact feature space and output much more natural rendering results. 

**Title:** Category Query Learning for Human-Object Interaction Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14005

**Abstract:** Unlike most previous HOI methods that focus on learning better human-object features, we propose a novel and complementary approach called category query learning. Such queries are explicitly associated to interaction categories, converted to image specific category representation via a transformer decoder, and learnt via an auxiliary image-level classification task. This idea is motivated by an earlier multi-label image classification method, but is for the first time applied for the challenging human-object interaction classification task. Our method is simple, general and effective. It is validated on three representative HOI baselines and achieves new state-of-the-art results on two benchmarks. 

**Title:** SEAL: Semantic Frame Execution And Localization for Perceiving Afforded  Robot Actions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14067

**Abstract:** Recent advances in robotic mobile manipulation have spurred the expansion of the operating environment for robots from constrained workspaces to large-scale, human environments. In order to effectively complete tasks in these spaces, robots must be able to perceive, reason, and execute over a diversity of affordances, well beyond simple pick-and-place. We posit the notion of semantic frames provides a compelling representation for robot actions that is amenable to action-focused perception, task-level reasoning, action-level execution, and integration with language. Semantic frames, a product of the linguistics community, define the necessary elements, pre- and post- conditions, and a set of sequential robot actions necessary to successfully execute an action evoked by a verb phrase. In this work, we extend the semantic frame representation for robot manipulation actions and introduce the problem of Semantic Frame Execution And Localization for Perceiving Afforded Robot Actions (SEAL) as a graphical model. For the SEAL problem, we describe our nonparametric Semantic Frame Mapping (SeFM) algorithm for maintaining belief over a finite set of semantic frames as the locations of actions afforded to the robot. We show that language models such as GPT-3 are insufficient to address generalized task execution covered by the SEAL formulation and SeFM provides robots with efficient search strategies and long term memory needed when operating in building-scale environments. 

**Title:** ChatDoctor: A Medical Chat Model Fine-tuned on LLaMA Model using Medical  Domain Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14070

**Abstract:** Recent large language models (LLMs) in the general domain, such as ChatGPT, have shown remarkable success in following instructions and producing human-like responses. However, such language models have not been learned individually and carefully for the medical domain, resulting in poor diagnostic accuracy and inability to give correct recommendations for medical diagnosis, medications, etc. To address this issue, we collected more than 700 diseases and their corresponding symptoms, recommended medications, and required medical tests, and then generated 5K doctor-patient conversations. By fine-tuning models of doctor-patient conversations, these models emerge with great potential to understand patients' needs, provide informed advice, and offer valuable assistance in a variety of medical-related fields. The integration of these advanced language models into healthcare can revolutionize the way healthcare professionals and patients communicate, ultimately improving the overall quality of care and patient outcomes. In addition, we will open all source code, datasets and model weights to advance the further development of dialogue models in the medical field. In addition, the training data, code, and weights of this project are available at: https://github.com/Kent0n-Li/ChatDoctor. 

**Title:** OPDMulti: Openable Part Detection for Multiple Objects  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14087

**Abstract:** Openable part detection is the task of detecting the openable parts of an object in a single-view image, and predicting corresponding motion parameters. Prior work investigated the unrealistic setting where all input images only contain a single openable object. We generalize this task to scenes with multiple objects each potentially possessing openable parts, and create a corresponding dataset based on real-world scenes. We then address this more challenging scenario with OPDFormer: a part-aware transformer architecture. Our experiments show that the OPDFormer architecture significantly outperforms prior work. The more realistic multiple-object scenarios we investigated remain challenging for all methods, indicating opportunities for future work. 

**Title:** Enhancing Multiple Reliability Measures via Nuisance-extended  Information Bottleneck  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14096

**Abstract:** In practical scenarios where training data is limited, many predictive signals in the data can be rather from some biases in data acquisition (i.e., less generalizable), so that one cannot prevent a model from co-adapting on such (so-called) "shortcut" signals: this makes the model fragile in various distribution shifts. To bypass such failure modes, we consider an adversarial threat model under a mutual information constraint to cover a wider class of perturbations in training. This motivates us to extend the standard information bottleneck to additionally model the nuisance information. We propose an autoencoder-based training to implement the objective, as well as practical encoder designs to facilitate the proposed hybrid discriminative-generative training concerning both convolutional- and Transformer-based architectures. Our experimental results show that the proposed scheme improves robustness of learned representations (remarkably without using any domain-specific knowledge), with respect to multiple challenging reliability measures. For example, our model could advance the state-of-the-art on a recent challenging OBJECTS benchmark in novelty detection by $78.4\% \rightarrow 87.2\%$ in AUROC, while simultaneously enjoying improved corruption, background and (certified) adversarial robustness. Code is available at https://github.com/jh-jeong/nuisance_ib. 

**Title:** CIFAKE: Image Classification and Explainable Identification of  AI-Generated Synthetic Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14126

**Abstract:** Recent technological advances in synthetic data have enabled the generation of images with such high quality that human beings cannot tell the difference between real-life photographs and Artificial Intelligence (AI) generated images. Given the critical necessity of data reliability and authentication, this article proposes to enhance our ability to recognise AI-generated images through computer vision. Initially, a synthetic dataset is generated that mirrors the ten classes of the already available CIFAR-10 dataset with latent diffusion which provides a contrasting set of images for comparison to real photographs. The model is capable of generating complex visual attributes, such as photorealistic reflections in water. The two sets of data present as a binary classification problem with regard to whether the photograph is real or generated by AI. This study then proposes the use of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to classify the images into two categories; Real or Fake. Following hyperparameter tuning and the training of 36 individual network topologies, the optimal approach could correctly classify the images with 92.98% accuracy. Finally, this study implements explainable AI via Gradient Class Activation Mapping to explore which features within the images are useful for classification. Interpretation reveals interesting concepts within the image, in particular, noting that the actual entity itself does not hold useful information for classification; instead, the model focuses on small visual imperfections in the background of the images. The complete dataset engineered for this study, referred to as the CIFAKE dataset, is made publicly available to the research community for future work. 

**Title:** MindDiffuser: Controlled Image Reconstruction from Human Brain Activity  with Semantic and Structural Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14139

**Abstract:** Reconstructing visual stimuli from measured functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been a meaningful and challenging task. Previous studies have successfully achieved reconstructions with structures similar to the original images, such as the outlines and size of some natural images. However, these reconstructions lack explicit semantic information and are difficult to discern. In recent years, many studies have utilized multi-modal pre-trained models with stronger generative capabilities to reconstruct images that are semantically similar to the original ones. However, these images have uncontrollable structural information such as position and orientation. To address both of the aforementioned issues simultaneously, we propose a two-stage image reconstruction model called MindDiffuser, utilizing Stable Diffusion. In Stage 1, the VQ-VAE latent representations and the CLIP text embeddings decoded from fMRI are put into the image-to-image process of Stable Diffusion, which yields a preliminary image that contains semantic and structural information. In Stage 2, we utilize the low-level CLIP visual features decoded from fMRI as supervisory information, and continually adjust the two features in Stage 1 through backpropagation to align the structural information. The results of both qualitative and quantitative analyses demonstrate that our proposed model has surpassed the current state-of-the-art models in terms of reconstruction results on Natural Scenes Dataset (NSD). Furthermore, the results of ablation experiments indicate that each component of our model is effective for image reconstruction. 

**Title:** "Get ready for a party": Exploring smarter smart spaces with help from  large language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14143

**Abstract:** The right response to someone who says "get ready for a party" is deeply influenced by meaning and context. For a smart home assistant (e.g., Google Home), the ideal response might be to survey the available devices in the home and change their state to create a festive atmosphere. Current practical systems cannot service such requests since they require the ability to (1) infer meaning behind an abstract statement and (2) map that inference to a concrete course of action appropriate for the context (e.g., changing the settings of specific devices). In this paper, we leverage the observation that recent task-agnostic large language models (LLMs) like GPT-3 embody a vast amount of cross-domain, sometimes unpredictable contextual knowledge that existing rule-based home assistant systems lack, which can make them powerful tools for inferring user intent and generating appropriate context-dependent responses during smart home interactions. We first explore the feasibility of a system that places an LLM at the center of command inference and action planning, showing that LLMs have the capacity to infer intent behind vague, context-dependent commands like "get ready for a party" and respond with concrete, machine-parseable instructions that can be used to control smart devices. We furthermore demonstrate a proof-of-concept implementation that puts an LLM in control of real devices, showing its ability to infer intent and change device state appropriately with no fine-tuning or task-specific training. Our work hints at the promise of LLM-driven systems for context-awareness in smart environments, motivating future research in this area. 

**Title:** Efficient Scale-Invariant Generator with Column-Row Entangled Pixel  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14157

**Abstract:** Any-scale image synthesis offers an efficient and scalable solution to synthesize photo-realistic images at any scale, even going beyond 2K resolution. However, existing GAN-based solutions depend excessively on convolutions and a hierarchical architecture, which introduce inconsistency and the $``$texture sticking$"$ issue when scaling the output resolution. From another perspective, INR-based generators are scale-equivariant by design, but their huge memory footprint and slow inference hinder these networks from being adopted in large-scale or real-time systems. In this work, we propose $\textbf{C}$olumn-$\textbf{R}$ow $\textbf{E}$ntangled $\textbf{P}$ixel $\textbf{S}$ynthesis ($\textbf{CREPS}$), a new generative model that is both efficient and scale-equivariant without using any spatial convolutions or coarse-to-fine design. To save memory footprint and make the system scalable, we employ a novel bi-line representation that decomposes layer-wise feature maps into separate $``$thick$"$ column and row encodings. Experiments on various datasets, including FFHQ, LSUN-Church, MetFaces, and Flickr-Scenery, confirm CREPS' ability to synthesize scale-consistent and alias-free images at any arbitrary resolution with proper training and inference speed. Code is available at https://github.com/VinAIResearch/CREPS. 

**Title:** Make-It-3D: High-Fidelity 3D Creation from A Single Image with Diffusion  Prior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14184

**Abstract:** In this work, we investigate the problem of creating high-fidelity 3D content from only a single image. This is inherently challenging: it essentially involves estimating the underlying 3D geometry while simultaneously hallucinating unseen textures. To address this challenge, we leverage prior knowledge from a well-trained 2D diffusion model to act as 3D-aware supervision for 3D creation. Our approach, Make-It-3D, employs a two-stage optimization pipeline: the first stage optimizes a neural radiance field by incorporating constraints from the reference image at the frontal view and diffusion prior at novel views; the second stage transforms the coarse model into textured point clouds and further elevates the realism with diffusion prior while leveraging the high-quality textures from the reference image. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms prior works by a large margin, resulting in faithful reconstructions and impressive visual quality. Our method presents the first attempt to achieve high-quality 3D creation from a single image for general objects and enables various applications such as text-to-3D creation and texture editing. 

**Title:** FastViT: A Fast Hybrid Vision Transformer using Structural  Reparameterization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14189

**Abstract:** The recent amalgamation of transformer and convolutional designs has led to steady improvements in accuracy and efficiency of the models. In this work, we introduce FastViT, a hybrid vision transformer architecture that obtains the state-of-the-art latency-accuracy trade-off. To this end, we introduce a novel token mixing operator, RepMixer, a building block of FastViT, that uses structural reparameterization to lower the memory access cost by removing skip-connections in the network. We further apply train-time overparametrization and large kernel convolutions to boost accuracy and empirically show that these choices have minimal effect on latency. We show that - our model is 3.5x faster than CMT, a recent state-of-the-art hybrid transformer architecture, 4.9x faster than EfficientNet, and 1.9x faster than ConvNeXt on a mobile device for the same accuracy on the ImageNet dataset. At similar latency, our model obtains 4.2% better Top-1 accuracy on ImageNet than MobileOne. Our model consistently outperforms competing architectures across several tasks -- image classification, detection, segmentation and 3D mesh regression with significant improvement in latency on both a mobile device and a desktop GPU. Furthermore, our model is highly robust to out-of-distribution samples and corruptions, improving over competing robust models. 

**Title:** Many bioinformatics programming tasks can be automated with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13528

**Abstract:** Computer programming is a fundamental tool for life scientists, allowing them to carry out many essential research tasks. However, despite a variety of educational efforts, learning to write code can be a challenging endeavor for both researchers and students in life science disciplines. Recent advances in artificial intelligence have made it possible to translate human-language prompts to functional code, raising questions about whether these technologies can aid (or replace) life scientists' efforts to write code. Using 184 programming exercises from an introductory-bioinformatics course, we evaluated the extent to which one such model -- OpenAI's ChatGPT -- can successfully complete basic- to moderate-level programming tasks. On its first attempt, ChatGPT solved 139 (75.5%) of the exercises. For the remaining exercises, we provided natural-language feedback to the model, prompting it to try different approaches. Within 7 or fewer attempts, ChatGPT solved 179 (97.3%) of the exercises. These findings have important implications for life-sciences research and education. For many programming tasks, researchers no longer need to write code from scratch. Instead, machine-learning models may produce usable solutions. Instructors may need to adapt their pedagogical approaches and assessment techniques to account for these new capabilities that are available to the general public. 

**Title:** Scaled Quantization for the Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13601

**Abstract:** Quantization using a small number of bits shows promise for reducing latency and memory usage in deep neural networks. However, most quantization methods cannot readily handle complicated functions such as exponential and square root, and prior approaches involve complex training processes that must interact with floating-point values. This paper proposes a robust method for the full integer quantization of vision transformer networks without requiring any intermediate floating-point computations. The quantization techniques can be applied in various hardware or software implementations, including processor/memory architectures and FPGAs. 

**Title:** A Three-Player GAN for Super-Resolution in Magnetic Resonance Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13900

**Abstract:** Learning based single image super resolution (SISR) task is well investigated in 2D images. However, SISR for 3D Magnetics Resonance Images (MRI) is more challenging compared to 2D, mainly due to the increased number of neural network parameters, the larger memory requirement and the limited amount of available training data. Current SISR methods for 3D volumetric images are based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), especially Wasserstein GANs due to their training stability. Other common architectures in the 2D domain, e.g. transformer models, require large amounts of training data and are therefore not suitable for the limited 3D data. However, Wasserstein GANs can be problematic because they may not converge to a global optimum and thus produce blurry results. Here, we propose a new method for 3D SR based on the GAN framework. Specifically, we use instance noise to balance the GAN training. Furthermore, we use a relativistic GAN loss function and an updating feature extractor during the training process. We show that our method produces highly accurate results. We also show that we need very few training samples. In particular, we need less than 30 samples instead of thousands of training samples that are typically required in previous studies. Finally, we show improved out-of-sample results produced by our model. 

**Title:** Particle Mean Field Variational Bayes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13930

**Abstract:** The Mean Field Variational Bayes (MFVB) method is one of the most computationally efficient techniques for Bayesian inference. However, its use has been restricted to models with conjugate priors or those that require analytical calculations. This paper proposes a novel particle-based MFVB approach that greatly expands the applicability of the MFVB method. We establish the theoretical basis of the new method by leveraging the connection between Wasserstein gradient flows and Langevin diffusion dynamics, and demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach using Bayesian logistic regression, stochastic volatility, and deep neural networks. 

**Title:** DisC-Diff: Disentangled Conditional Diffusion Model for Multi-Contrast  MRI Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.13933

**Abstract:** Multi-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the most common management tool used to characterize neurological disorders based on brain tissue contrasts. However, acquiring high-resolution MRI scans is time-consuming and infeasible under specific conditions. Hence, multi-contrast super-resolution methods have been developed to improve the quality of low-resolution contrasts by leveraging complementary information from multi-contrast MRI. Current deep learning-based super-resolution methods have limitations in estimating restoration uncertainty and avoiding mode collapse. Although the diffusion model has emerged as a promising approach for image enhancement, capturing complex interactions between multiple conditions introduced by multi-contrast MRI super-resolution remains a challenge for clinical applications. In this paper, we propose a disentangled conditional diffusion model, DisC-Diff, for multi-contrast brain MRI super-resolution. It utilizes the sampling-based generation and simple objective function of diffusion models to estimate uncertainty in restorations effectively and ensure a stable optimization process. Moreover, DisC-Diff leverages a disentangled multi-stream network to fully exploit complementary information from multi-contrast MRI, improving model interpretation under multiple conditions of multi-contrast inputs. We validated the effectiveness of DisC-Diff on two datasets: the IXI dataset, which contains 578 normal brains, and a clinical dataset with 316 pathological brains. Our experimental results demonstrate that DisC-Diff outperforms other state-of-the-art methods both quantitatively and visually. 

**Title:** CoLa-Diff: Conditional Latent Diffusion Model for Multi-Modal MRI  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.14081

**Abstract:** MRI synthesis promises to mitigate the challenge of missing MRI modality in clinical practice. Diffusion model has emerged as an effective technique for image synthesis by modelling complex and variable data distributions. However, most diffusion-based MRI synthesis models are using a single modality. As they operate in the original image domain, they are memory-intensive and less feasible for multi-modal synthesis. Moreover, they often fail to preserve the anatomical structure in MRI. Further, balancing the multiple conditions from multi-modal MRI inputs is crucial for multi-modal synthesis. Here, we propose the first diffusion-based multi-modality MRI synthesis model, namely Conditioned Latent Diffusion Model (CoLa-Diff). To reduce memory consumption, we design CoLa-Diff to operate in the latent space. We propose a novel network architecture, e.g., similar cooperative filtering, to solve the possible compression and noise in latent space. To better maintain the anatomical structure, brain region masks are introduced as the priors of density distributions to guide diffusion process. We further present auto-weight adaptation to employ multi-modal information effectively. Our experiments demonstrate that CoLa-Diff outperforms other state-of-the-art MRI synthesis methods, promising to serve as an effective tool for multi-modal MRI synthesis. 

