**Title:** The Quality-Diversity Transformer: Generating Behavior-Conditioned  Trajectories with Decision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16207

**Abstract:** In the context of neuroevolution, Quality-Diversity algorithms have proven effective in generating repertoires of diverse and efficient policies by relying on the definition of a behavior space. A natural goal induced by the creation of such a repertoire is trying to achieve behaviors on demand, which can be done by running the corresponding policy from the repertoire. However, in uncertain environments, two problems arise. First, policies can lack robustness and repeatability, meaning that multiple episodes under slightly different conditions often result in very different behaviors. Second, due to the discrete nature of the repertoire, solutions vary discontinuously. Here we present a new approach to achieve behavior-conditioned trajectory generation based on two mechanisms: First, MAP-Elites Low-Spread (ME-LS), which constrains the selection of solutions to those that are the most consistent in the behavior space. Second, the Quality-Diversity Transformer (QDT), a Transformer-based model conditioned on continuous behavior descriptors, which trains on a dataset generated by policies from a ME-LS repertoire and learns to autoregressively generate sequences of actions that achieve target behaviors. Results show that ME-LS produces consistent and robust policies, and that its combination with the QDT yields a single policy capable of achieving diverse behaviors on demand with high accuracy. 

**Title:** On Codex Prompt Engineering for OCL Generation: An Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16244

**Abstract:** The Object Constraint Language (OCL) is a declarative language that adds constraints and object query expressions to MOF models. Despite its potential to provide precision and conciseness to UML models, the unfamiliar syntax of OCL has hindered its adoption. Recent advancements in LLMs, such as GPT-3, have shown their capability in many NLP tasks, including semantic parsing and text generation. Codex, a GPT-3 descendant, has been fine-tuned on publicly available code from GitHub and can generate code in many programming languages. We investigate the reliability of OCL constraints generated by Codex from natural language specifications. To achieve this, we compiled a dataset of 15 UML models and 168 specifications and crafted a prompt template with slots to populate with UML information and the target task, using both zero- and few-shot learning methods. By measuring the syntactic validity and execution accuracy metrics of the generated OCL constraints, we found that enriching the prompts with UML information and enabling few-shot learning increases the reliability of the generated OCL constraints. Furthermore, the results reveal a close similarity based on sentence embedding between the generated OCL constraints and the human-written ones in the ground truth, implying a level of clarity and understandability in the generated OCL constraints by Codex. 

**Title:** Zero-Shot Generalizable End-to-End Task-Oriented Dialog System using  Context Summarization and Domain Schema  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16252

**Abstract:** Task-oriented dialog systems empower users to accomplish their goals by facilitating intuitive and expressive natural language interactions. State-of-the-art approaches in task-oriented dialog systems formulate the problem as a conditional sequence generation task and fine-tune pre-trained causal language models in the supervised setting. This requires labeled training data for each new domain or task, and acquiring such data is prohibitively laborious and expensive, thus making it a bottleneck for scaling systems to a wide range of domains. To overcome this challenge, we introduce a novel Zero-Shot generalizable end-to-end Task-oriented Dialog system, ZS-ToD, that leverages domain schemas to allow for robust generalization to unseen domains and exploits effective summarization of the dialog history. We employ GPT-2 as a backbone model and introduce a two-step training process where the goal of the first step is to learn the general structure of the dialog data and the second step optimizes the response generation as well as intermediate outputs, such as dialog state and system actions. As opposed to state-of-the-art systems that are trained to fulfill certain intents in the given domains and memorize task-specific conversational patterns, ZS-ToD learns generic task-completion skills by comprehending domain semantics via domain schemas and generalizing to unseen domains seamlessly. We conduct an extensive experimental evaluation on SGD and SGD-X datasets that span up to 20 unique domains and ZS-ToD outperforms state-of-the-art systems on key metrics, with an improvement of +17% on joint goal accuracy and +5 on inform. Additionally, we present a detailed ablation study to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed components and training mechanism 

**Title:** CryoFormer: Continuous Reconstruction of 3D Structures from Cryo-EM Data  using Transformer-based Neural Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16254

**Abstract:** High-resolution heterogeneous reconstruction of 3D structures of proteins and other biomolecules using cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) is essential for understanding fundamental processes of life. However, it is still challenging to reconstruct the continuous motions of 3D structures from hundreds of thousands of noisy and randomly oriented 2D cryo-EM images. Existing methods based on coordinate-based neural networks show compelling results to model continuous conformations of 3D structures in the Fourier domain, but they suffer from a limited ability to model local flexible regions and lack interpretability. We propose a novel approach, cryoFormer, that utilizes a transformer-based network architecture for continuous heterogeneous cryo-EM reconstruction. We for the first time directly reconstruct continuous conformations of 3D structures using an implicit feature volume in the 3D spatial domain. A novel deformation transformer decoder further improves reconstruction quality and, more importantly, locates and robustly tackles flexible 3D regions caused by conformations. In experiments, our method outperforms current approaches on three public datasets (1 synthetic and 2 experimental) and a new synthetic dataset of PEDV spike protein. The code and new synthetic dataset will be released for better reproducibility of our results. Project page: https://cryoformer.github.io. 

**Title:** Scalable handwritten text recognition system for lexicographic sources  of under-resourced languages and alphabets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16256

**Abstract:** The paper discusses an approach to decipher large collections of handwritten index cards of historical dictionaries. Our study provides a working solution that reads the cards, and links their lemmas to a searchable list of dictionary entries, for a large historical dictionary entitled the Dictionary of the 17th- and 18th-century Polish, which comprizes 2.8 million index cards. We apply a tailored handwritten text recognition (HTR) solution that involves (1) an optimized detection model; (2) a recognition model to decipher the handwritten content, designed as a spatial transformer network (STN) followed by convolutional neural network (RCNN) with a connectionist temporal classification layer (CTC), trained using a synthetic set of 500,000 generated Polish words of different length; (3) a post-processing step using constrained Word Beam Search (WBC): the predictions were matched against a list of dictionary entries known in advance. Our model achieved the accuracy of 0.881 on the word level, which outperforms the base RCNN model. Within this study we produced a set of 20,000 manually annotated index cards that can be used for future benchmarks and transfer learning HTR applications. 

**Title:** Rethinking CycleGAN: Improving Quality of GANs for Unpaired  Image-to-Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16280

**Abstract:** An unpaired image-to-image (I2I) translation technique seeks to find a mapping between two domains of data in a fully unsupervised manner. While the initial solutions to the I2I problem were provided by the generative adversarial neural networks (GANs), currently, diffusion models (DM) hold the state-of-the-art status on the I2I translation benchmarks in terms of FID. Yet, they suffer from some limitations, such as not using data from the source domain during the training, or maintaining consistency of the source and translated images only via simple pixel-wise errors. This work revisits the classic CycleGAN model and equips it with recent advancements in model architectures and model training procedures. The revised model is shown to significantly outperform other advanced GAN- and DM-based competitors on a variety of benchmarks. In the case of Male2Female translation of CelebA, the model achieves over 40% improvement in FID score compared to the state-of-the-art results. This work also demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the pixel-wise I2I translation faithfulness metrics and suggests their revision. The code and trained models are available at https://github.com/LS4GAN/uvcgan2 

**Title:** A Perspectival Mirror of the Elephant: Investigating Language Bias on  Google, ChatGPT, Wikipedia, and YouTube  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16281

**Abstract:** Contrary to Google Search's mission of delivering information from "many angles so you can form your own understanding of the world," we find that Google and its most prominent returned results -- Wikipedia and YouTube, simply reflect the narrow set of cultural stereotypes tied to the search language for complex topics like "Buddhism," "Liberalism," "colonization," "Iran" and "America." Simply stated, they present, to varying degrees, distinct information across the same search in different languages (we call it 'language bias'). Instead of presenting a global picture of a complex topic, our online searches turn us into the proverbial blind person touching a small portion of an elephant, ignorant of the existence of other cultural perspectives. The language we use to search ends up as a cultural filter to promote ethnocentric views, where a person evaluates other people or ideas based on their own culture. We also find that language bias is deeply embedded in ChatGPT. As it is primarily trained on English language data, it presents the Anglo-American perspective as the normative view, reducing the complexity of a multifaceted issue to the single Anglo-American standard. In this paper, we present evidence and analysis of language bias and discuss its larger social implications. Toward the end of the paper, we propose a potential framework of using automatic translation to leverage language bias and argue that the task of piecing together a genuine depiction of the elephant is a challenging and important endeavor that deserves a new area of research in NLP and requires collaboration with scholars from the humanities to create ethically sound and socially responsible technology together. 

**Title:** SnakeVoxFormer: Transformer-based Single Image\\Voxel Reconstruction  with Run Length Encoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16293

**Abstract:** Deep learning-based 3D object reconstruction has achieved unprecedented results. Among those, the transformer deep neural model showed outstanding performance in many applications of computer vision. We introduce SnakeVoxFormer, a novel, 3D object reconstruction in voxel space from a single image using the transformer. The input to SnakeVoxFormer is a 2D image, and the result is a 3D voxel model. The key novelty of our approach is in using the run-length encoding that traverses (like a snake) the voxel space and encodes wide spatial differences into a 1D structure that is suitable for transformer encoding. We then use dictionary encoding to convert the discovered RLE blocks into tokens that are used for the transformer. The 1D representation is a lossless 3D shape data compression method that converts to 1D data that use only about 1% of the original data size. We show how different voxel traversing strategies affect the effect of encoding and reconstruction. We compare our method with the state-of-the-art for 3D voxel reconstruction from images and our method improves the state-of-the-art methods by at least 2.8% and up to 19.8%. 

**Title:** Flow supervision for Deformable NeRF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16333

**Abstract:** In this paper we present a new method for deformable NeRF that can directly use optical flow as supervision. We overcome the major challenge with respect to the computationally inefficiency of enforcing the flow constraints to the backward deformation field, used by deformable NeRFs. Specifically, we show that inverting the backward deformation function is actually not needed for computing scene flows between frames. This insight dramatically simplifies the problem, as one is no longer constrained to deformation functions that can be analytically inverted. Instead, thanks to the weak assumptions required by our derivation based on the inverse function theorem, our approach can be extended to a broad class of commonly used backward deformation field. We present results on monocular novel view synthesis with rapid object motion, and demonstrate significant improvements over baselines without flow supervision. 

**Title:** ChatGPT or academic scientist? Distinguishing authorship with over 99%  accuracy using off-the-shelf machine learning tools  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16352

**Abstract:** ChatGPT has enabled access to AI-generated writing for the masses, and within just a few months, this product has disrupted the knowledge economy, initiating a culture shift in the way people work, learn, and write. The need to discriminate human writing from AI is now both critical and urgent, particularly in domains like higher education and academic writing, where AI had not been a significant threat or contributor to authorship. Addressing this need, we developed a method for discriminating text generated by ChatGPT from (human) academic scientists, relying on prevalent and accessible supervised classification methods. We focused on how a particular group of humans, academic scientists, write differently than ChatGPT, and this targeted approach led to the discovery of new features for discriminating (these) humans from AI; as examples, scientists write long paragraphs and have a penchant for equivocal language, frequently using words like but, however, and although. With a set of 20 features, including the aforementioned ones and others, we built a model that assigned the author, as human or AI, at well over 99% accuracy, resulting in 20 times fewer misclassified documents compared to the field-leading approach. This strategy for discriminating a particular set of humans writing from AI could be further adapted and developed by others with basic skills in supervised classification, enabling access to many highly accurate and targeted models for detecting AI usage in academic writing and beyond. 

**Title:** A Unified Single-stage Learning Model for Estimating Fiber Orientation  Distribution Functions on Heterogeneous Multi-shell Diffusion-weighted MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16376

**Abstract:** Diffusion-weighted (DW) MRI measures the direction and scale of the local diffusion process in every voxel through its spectrum in q-space, typically acquired in one or more shells. Recent developments in micro-structure imaging and multi-tissue decomposition have sparked renewed attention to the radial b-value dependence of the signal. Applications in tissue classification and micro-architecture estimation, therefore, require a signal representation that extends over the radial as well as angular domain. Multiple approaches have been proposed that can model the non-linear relationship between the DW-MRI signal and biological microstructure. In the past few years, many deep learning-based methods have been developed towards faster inference speed and higher inter-scan consistency compared with traditional model-based methods (e.g., multi-shell multi-tissue constrained spherical deconvolution). However, a multi-stage learning strategy is typically required since the learning process relied on various middle representations, such as simple harmonic oscillator reconstruction (SHORE) representation. In this work, we present a unified dynamic network with a single-stage spherical convolutional neural network, which allows efficient fiber orientation distribution function (fODF) estimation through heterogeneous multi-shell diffusion MRI sequences. We study the Human Connectome Project (HCP) young adults with test-retest scans. From the experimental results, the proposed single-stage method outperforms prior multi-stage approaches in repeated fODF estimation with shell dropoff and single-shell DW-MRI sequences. 

**Title:** A Pilot Study of Query-Free Adversarial Attack against Stable Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16378

**Abstract:** Despite the record-breaking performance in Text-to-Image (T2I) generation by Stable Diffusion, less research attention is paid to its adversarial robustness. In this work, we study the problem of adversarial attack generation for Stable Diffusion and ask if an adversarial text prompt can be obtained even in the absence of end-to-end model queries. We call the resulting problem 'query-free attack generation'. To resolve this problem, we show that the vulnerability of T2I models is rooted in the lack of robustness of text encoders, e.g., the CLIP text encoder used for attacking Stable Diffusion. Based on such insight, we propose both untargeted and targeted query-free attacks, where the former is built on the most influential dimensions in the text embedding space, which we call steerable key dimensions. By leveraging the proposed attacks, we empirically show that only a five-character perturbation to the text prompt is able to cause the significant content shift of synthesized images using Stable Diffusion. Moreover, we show that the proposed target attack can precisely steer the diffusion model to scrub the targeted image content without causing much change in untargeted image content. 

**Title:** Zero-shot Clinical Entity Recognition using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16416

**Abstract:** In this study, we investigated the potential of ChatGPT, a large language model developed by OpenAI, for the clinical named entity recognition task defined in the 2010 i2b2 challenge, in a zero-shot setting with two different prompt strategies. We compared its performance with GPT-3 in a similar zero-shot setting, as well as a fine-tuned BioClinicalBERT model using a set of synthetic clinical notes from MTSamples. Our findings revealed that ChatGPT outperformed GPT-3 in the zero-shot setting, with F1 scores of 0.418 (vs.0.250) and 0.620 (vs. 0.480) for exact- and relaxed-matching, respectively. Moreover, prompts affected ChatGPT's performance greatly, with relaxed-matching F1 scores of 0.628 vs.0.541 for two different prompt strategies. Although ChatGPT's performance was still lower than that of the supervised BioClinicalBERT model (i.e., relaxed-matching F1 scores of 0.628 vs. 0.870), our study demonstrates the great potential of ChatGPT for clinical NER tasks in a zero-shot setting, which is much more appealing as it does not require any annotation. 

**Title:** ChatGPT is a Knowledgeable but Inexperienced Solver: An Investigation of  Commonsense Problem in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16421

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 have made significant progress in NLP. However, their ability to memorize, represent, and leverage commonsense knowledge has been a well-known pain point for LLMs. It remains unclear that: (1) Can GPTs effectively answer commonsense questions? (2) Are GPTs knowledgeable in commonsense? (3) Are GPTs aware of the underlying commonsense knowledge for answering a specific question? (4) Can GPTs effectively leverage commonsense for answering questions? To evaluate the above commonsense problems, we conduct a series of experiments to evaluate ChatGPT's commonsense abilities, and the experimental results show that: (1) GPTs can achieve good QA accuracy in commonsense tasks, while they still struggle with certain types of knowledge. (2) ChatGPT is knowledgeable, and can accurately generate most of the commonsense knowledge using knowledge prompts. (3) Despite its knowledge, ChatGPT is an inexperienced commonsense problem solver, which cannot precisely identify the needed commonsense knowledge for answering a specific question, i.e., ChatGPT does not precisely know what commonsense knowledge is required to answer a question. The above findings raise the need to investigate better mechanisms for utilizing commonsense knowledge in LLMs, such as instruction following, better commonsense guidance, etc. 

**Title:** TaskMatrix.AI: Completing Tasks by Connecting Foundation Models with  Millions of APIs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16434

**Abstract:** Artificial Intelligence (AI) has made incredible progress recently. On the one hand, advanced foundation models like ChatGPT can offer powerful conversation, in-context learning and code generation abilities on a broad range of open-domain tasks. They can also generate high-level solution outlines for domain-specific tasks based on the common sense knowledge they have acquired. However, they still face difficulties with some specialized tasks because they lack enough domain-specific data during pre-training or they often have errors in their neural network computations on those tasks that need accurate executions. On the other hand, there are also many existing models and systems (symbolic-based or neural-based) that can do some domain-specific tasks very well. However, due to the different implementation or working mechanisms, they are not easily accessible or compatible with foundation models. Therefore, there is a clear and pressing need for a mechanism that can leverage foundation models to propose task solution outlines and then automatically match some of the sub-tasks in the outlines to the off-the-shelf models and systems with special functionalities to complete them. Inspired by this, we introduce TaskMatrix.AI as a new AI ecosystem that connects foundation models with millions of APIs for task completion. Unlike most previous work that aimed to improve a single AI model, TaskMatrix.AI focuses more on using existing foundation models (as a brain-like central system) and APIs of other AI models and systems (as sub-task solvers) to achieve diversified tasks in both digital and physical domains. As a position paper, we will present our vision of how to build such an ecosystem, explain each key component, and use study cases to illustrate both the feasibility of this vision and the main challenges we need to address next. 

**Title:** Random Weights Networks Work as Loss Prior Constraint for Image  Restoration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16438

**Abstract:** In this paper, orthogonal to the existing data and model studies, we instead resort our efforts to investigate the potential of loss function in a new perspective and present our belief ``Random Weights Networks can Be Acted as Loss Prior Constraint for Image Restoration''. Inspired by Functional theory, we provide several alternative solutions to implement our belief in the strict mathematical manifolds including Taylor's Unfolding Network, Invertible Neural Network, Central Difference Convolution and Zero-order Filtering as ``random weights network prototype'' with respect of the following four levels: 1) the different random weights strategies; 2) the different network architectures, \emph{eg,} pure convolution layer or transformer; 3) the different network architecture depths; 4) the different numbers of random weights network combination. Furthermore, to enlarge the capability of the randomly initialized manifolds, we devise the manner of random weights in the following two variants: 1) the weights are randomly initialized only once during the whole training procedure; 2) the weights are randomly initialized at each training iteration epoch. Our propose belief can be directly inserted into existing networks without any training and testing computational cost. Extensive experiments across multiple image restoration tasks, including image de-noising, low-light image enhancement, guided image super-resolution demonstrate the consistent performance gains obtained by introducing our belief. To emphasize, our main focus is to spark the realms of loss function and save their current neglected status. Code will be publicly available. 

**Title:** Larger Probes Tell a Different Story: Extending Psycholinguistic  Datasets Via In-Context Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16445

**Abstract:** Language model probing is often used to test specific capabilities of these models. However, conclusions from such studies may be limited when the probing benchmarks are small and lack statistical power. In this work, we introduce new, larger datasets for negation (NEG-1500-SIMP) and role reversal (ROLE-1500) inspired by psycholinguistic studies. We dramatically extend existing NEG-136 and ROLE-88 benchmarks using GPT3, increasing their size from 18 and 44 sentence pairs to 750 each. We also create another version of extended negation dataset (NEG-1500-SIMP-TEMP), created using template-based generation. It consists of 770 sentence pairs. We evaluate 22 models on the extended datasets, seeing model performance dip 20-57% compared to the original smaller benchmarks. We observe high levels of negation sensitivity in models like BERT and ALBERT demonstrating that previous findings might have been skewed due to smaller test sets. Finally, we observe that while GPT3 has generated all the examples in ROLE-1500 is only able to solve 24.6% of them during probing. 

**Title:** Self-positioning Point-based Transformer for Point Cloud Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16450

**Abstract:** Transformers have shown superior performance on various computer vision tasks with their capabilities to capture long-range dependencies. Despite the success, it is challenging to directly apply Transformers on point clouds due to their quadratic cost in the number of points. In this paper, we present a Self-Positioning point-based Transformer (SPoTr), which is designed to capture both local and global shape contexts with reduced complexity. Specifically, this architecture consists of local self-attention and self-positioning point-based global cross-attention. The self-positioning points, adaptively located based on the input shape, consider both spatial and semantic information with disentangled attention to improve expressive power. With the self-positioning points, we propose a novel global cross-attention mechanism for point clouds, which improves the scalability of global self-attention by allowing the attention module to compute attention weights with only a small set of self-positioning points. Experiments show the effectiveness of SPoTr on three point cloud tasks such as shape classification, part segmentation, and scene segmentation. In particular, our proposed model achieves an accuracy gain of 2.6% over the previous best models on shape classification with ScanObjectNN. We also provide qualitative analyses to demonstrate the interpretability of self-positioning points. The code of SPoTr is available at https://github.com/mlvlab/SPoTr. 

**Title:** Visibility Aware Human-Object Interaction Tracking from Single RGB  Camera  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16479

**Abstract:** Capturing the interactions between humans and their environment in 3D is important for many applications in robotics, graphics, and vision. Recent works to reconstruct the 3D human and object from a single RGB image do not have consistent relative translation across frames because they assume a fixed depth. Moreover, their performance drops significantly when the object is occluded. In this work, we propose a novel method to track the 3D human, object, contacts between them, and their relative translation across frames from a single RGB camera, while being robust to heavy occlusions. Our method is built on two key insights. First, we condition our neural field reconstructions for human and object on per-frame SMPL model estimates obtained by pre-fitting SMPL to a video sequence. This improves neural reconstruction accuracy and produces coherent relative translation across frames. Second, human and object motion from visible frames provides valuable information to infer the occluded object. We propose a novel transformer-based neural network that explicitly uses object visibility and human motion to leverage neighbouring frames to make predictions for the occluded frames. Building on these insights, our method is able to track both human and object robustly even under occlusions. Experiments on two datasets show that our method significantly improves over the state-of-the-art methods. Our code and pretrained models are available at: https://virtualhumans.mpi-inf.mpg.de/VisTracker 

**Title:** Point2Pix: Photo-Realistic Point Cloud Rendering via Neural Radiance  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16482

**Abstract:** Synthesizing photo-realistic images from a point cloud is challenging because of the sparsity of point cloud representation. Recent Neural Radiance Fields and extensions are proposed to synthesize realistic images from 2D input. In this paper, we present Point2Pix as a novel point renderer to link the 3D sparse point clouds with 2D dense image pixels. Taking advantage of the point cloud 3D prior and NeRF rendering pipeline, our method can synthesize high-quality images from colored point clouds, generally for novel indoor scenes. To improve the efficiency of ray sampling, we propose point-guided sampling, which focuses on valid samples. Also, we present Point Encoding to build Multi-scale Radiance Fields that provide discriminative 3D point features. Finally, we propose Fusion Encoding to efficiently synthesize high-quality images. Extensive experiments on the ScanNet and ArkitScenes datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and generalization. 

**Title:** TriVol: Point Cloud Rendering via Triple Volumes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16485

**Abstract:** Existing learning-based methods for point cloud rendering adopt various 3D representations and feature querying mechanisms to alleviate the sparsity problem of point clouds. However, artifacts still appear in rendered images, due to the challenges in extracting continuous and discriminative 3D features from point clouds. In this paper, we present a dense while lightweight 3D representation, named TriVol, that can be combined with NeRF to render photo-realistic images from point clouds. Our TriVol consists of triple slim volumes, each of which is encoded from the point cloud. TriVol has two advantages. First, it fuses respective fields at different scales and thus extracts local and non-local features for discriminative representation. Second, since the volume size is greatly reduced, our 3D decoder can be efficiently inferred, allowing us to increase the resolution of the 3D space to render more point details. Extensive experiments on different benchmarks with varying kinds of scenes/objects demonstrate our framework's effectiveness compared with current approaches. Moreover, our framework has excellent generalization ability to render a category of scenes/objects without fine-tuning. 

**Title:** Implicit Diffusion Models for Continuous Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16491

**Abstract:** Image super-resolution (SR) has attracted increasing attention due to its wide applications. However, current SR methods generally suffer from over-smoothing and artifacts, and most work only with fixed magnifications. This paper introduces an Implicit Diffusion Model (IDM) for high-fidelity continuous image super-resolution. IDM integrates an implicit neural representation and a denoising diffusion model in a unified end-to-end framework, where the implicit neural representation is adopted in the decoding process to learn continuous-resolution representation. Furthermore, we design a scale-controllable conditioning mechanism that consists of a low-resolution (LR) conditioning network and a scaling factor. The scaling factor regulates the resolution and accordingly modulates the proportion of the LR information and generated features in the final output, which enables the model to accommodate the continuous-resolution requirement. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our IDM and demonstrate its superior performance over prior arts. 

**Title:** HOLODIFFUSION: Training a 3D Diffusion Model using 2D Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16509

**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as the best approach for generative modeling of 2D images. Part of their success is due to the possibility of training them on millions if not billions of images with a stable learning objective. However, extending these models to 3D remains difficult for two reasons. First, finding a large quantity of 3D training data is much more complex than for 2D images. Second, while it is conceptually trivial to extend the models to operate on 3D rather than 2D grids, the associated cubic growth in memory and compute complexity makes this infeasible. We address the first challenge by introducing a new diffusion setup that can be trained, end-to-end, with only posed 2D images for supervision; and the second challenge by proposing an image formation model that decouples model memory from spatial memory. We evaluate our method on real-world data, using the CO3D dataset which has not been used to train 3D generative models before. We show that our diffusion models are scalable, train robustly, and are competitive in terms of sample quality and fidelity to existing approaches for 3D generative modeling. 

**Title:** Cascaded Local Implicit Transformer for Arbitrary-Scale Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16513

**Abstract:** Implicit neural representation has recently shown a promising ability in representing images with arbitrary resolutions. In this paper, we present a Local Implicit Transformer (LIT), which integrates the attention mechanism and frequency encoding technique into a local implicit image function. We design a cross-scale local attention block to effectively aggregate local features. To further improve representative power, we propose a Cascaded LIT (CLIT) that exploits multi-scale features, along with a cumulative training strategy that gradually increases the upsampling scales during training. We have conducted extensive experiments to validate the effectiveness of these components and analyze various training strategies. The qualitative and quantitative results demonstrate that LIT and CLIT achieve favorable results and outperform the prior works in arbitrary super-resolution tasks. 

**Title:** LMExplainer: a Knowledge-Enhanced Explainer for Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16537

**Abstract:** Large language models (LMs) such as GPT-4 are very powerful and can process different kinds of natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, it can be difficult to interpret the results due to the multi-layer nonlinear model structure and millions of parameters. Lack of understanding of how the model works can make the model unreliable and dangerous for everyday users in real-world scenarios. Most recent works exploit the weights of attention to provide explanations for model predictions. However, pure attention-based explanation is unable to support the growing complexity of the models, and cannot reason about their decision-making processes. Thus, we propose LMExplainer, a knowledge-enhanced interpretation module for language models that can provide human-understandable explanations. We use a knowledge graph (KG) and a graph attention neural network to extract the key decision signals of the LM. We further explore whether interpretation can also help AI understand the task better. Our experimental results show that LMExplainer outperforms existing LM+KG methods on CommonsenseQA and OpenBookQA. We also compare the explanation results with generated explanation methods and human-annotated results. The comparison shows our method can provide more comprehensive and clearer explanations. LMExplainer demonstrates the potential to enhance model performance and furnish explanations for the reasoning processes of models in natural language. 

**Title:** Sounding Video Generator: A Unified Framework for Text-guided Sounding  Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16541

**Abstract:** As a combination of visual and audio signals, video is inherently multi-modal. However, existing video generation methods are primarily intended for the synthesis of visual frames, whereas audio signals in realistic videos are disregarded. In this work, we concentrate on a rarely investigated problem of text guided sounding video generation and propose the Sounding Video Generator (SVG), a unified framework for generating realistic videos along with audio signals. Specifically, we present the SVG-VQGAN to transform visual frames and audio melspectrograms into discrete tokens. SVG-VQGAN applies a novel hybrid contrastive learning method to model inter-modal and intra-modal consistency and improve the quantized representations. A cross-modal attention module is employed to extract associated features of visual frames and audio signals for contrastive learning. Then, a Transformer-based decoder is used to model associations between texts, visual frames, and audio signals at token level for auto-regressive sounding video generation. AudioSetCap, a human annotated text-video-audio paired dataset, is produced for training SVG. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our method when compared with existing textto-video generation methods as well as audio generation methods on Kinetics and VAS datasets. 

**Title:** Self-accumulative Vision Transformer for Bone Age Assessment Using the  Sauvegrain Method  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16557

**Abstract:** This study presents a novel approach to bone age assessment (BAA) using a multi-view, multi-task classification model based on the Sauvegrain method. A straightforward solution to automating the Sauvegrain method, which assesses a maturity score for each landmark in the elbow and predicts the bone age, is to train classifiers independently to score each region of interest (RoI), but this approach limits the accessible information to local morphologies and increases computational costs. As a result, this work proposes a self-accumulative vision transformer (SAT) that mitigates anisotropic behavior, which usually occurs in multi-view, multi-task problems and limits the effectiveness of a vision transformer, by applying token replay and regional attention bias. A number of experiments show that SAT successfully exploits the relationships between landmarks and learns global morphological features, resulting in a mean absolute error of BAA that is 0.11 lower than that of the previous work. Additionally, the proposed SAT has four times reduced parameters than an ensemble of individual classifiers of the previous work. Lastly, this work also provides informative implications for clinical practice, improving the accuracy and efficiency of BAA in diagnosing abnormal growth in adolescents. 

**Title:** WordStylist: Styled Verbatim Handwritten Text Generation with Latent  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16576

**Abstract:** Text-to-Image synthesis is the task of generating an image according to a specific text description. Generative Adversarial Networks have been considered the standard method for image synthesis virtually since their introduction; today, Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models are recently setting a new baseline, with remarkable results in Text-to-Image synthesis, among other fields. Aside its usefulness per se, it can also be particularly relevant as a tool for data augmentation to aid training models for other document image processing tasks. In this work, we present a latent diffusion-based method for styled text-to-text-content-image generation on word-level. Our proposed method manages to generate realistic word image samples from different writer styles, by using class index styles and text content prompts without the need of adversarial training, writer recognition, or text recognition. We gauge system performance with Frechet Inception Distance, writer recognition accuracy, and writer retrieval. We show that the proposed model produces samples that are aesthetically pleasing, help boosting text recognition performance, and gets similar writer retrieval score as real data. 

**Title:** Generalized Relation Modeling for Transformer Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16580

**Abstract:** Compared with previous two-stream trackers, the recent one-stream tracking pipeline, which allows earlier interaction between the template and search region, has achieved a remarkable performance gain. However, existing one-stream trackers always let the template interact with all parts inside the search region throughout all the encoder layers. This could potentially lead to target-background confusion when the extracted feature representations are not sufficiently discriminative. To alleviate this issue, we propose a generalized relation modeling method based on adaptive token division. The proposed method is a generalized formulation of attention-based relation modeling for Transformer tracking, which inherits the merits of both previous two-stream and one-stream pipelines whilst enabling more flexible relation modeling by selecting appropriate search tokens to interact with template tokens. An attention masking strategy and the Gumbel-Softmax technique are introduced to facilitate the parallel computation and end-to-end learning of the token division module. Extensive experiments show that our method is superior to the two-stream and one-stream pipelines and achieves state-of-the-art performance on six challenging benchmarks with a real-time running speed. 

**Title:** 4D Facial Expression Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16611

**Abstract:** Facial expression generation is one of the most challenging and long-sought aspects of character animation, with many interesting applications. The challenging task, traditionally having relied heavily on digital craftspersons, remains yet to be explored. In this paper, we introduce a generative framework for generating 3D facial expression sequences (i.e. 4D faces) that can be conditioned on different inputs to animate an arbitrary 3D face mesh. It is composed of two tasks: (1) Learning the generative model that is trained over a set of 3D landmark sequences, and (2) Generating 3D mesh sequences of an input facial mesh driven by the generated landmark sequences. The generative model is based on a Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model (DDPM), which has achieved remarkable success in generative tasks of other domains. While it can be trained unconditionally, its reverse process can still be conditioned by various condition signals. This allows us to efficiently develop several downstream tasks involving various conditional generation, by using expression labels, text, partial sequences, or simply a facial geometry. To obtain the full mesh deformation, we then develop a landmark-guided encoder-decoder to apply the geometrical deformation embedded in landmarks on a given facial mesh. Experiments show that our model has learned to generate realistic, quality expressions solely from the dataset of relatively small size, improving over the state-of-the-art methods. Videos and qualitative comparisons with other methods can be found at https://github.com/ZOUKaifeng/4DFM. Code and models will be made available upon acceptance. 

**Title:** Adaptive Spot-Guided Transformer for Consistent Local Feature Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16624

**Abstract:** Local feature matching aims at finding correspondences between a pair of images. Although current detector-free methods leverage Transformer architecture to obtain an impressive performance, few works consider maintaining local consistency. Meanwhile, most methods struggle with large scale variations. To deal with the above issues, we propose Adaptive Spot-Guided Transformer (ASTR) for local feature matching, which jointly models the local consistency and scale variations in a unified coarse-to-fine architecture. The proposed ASTR enjoys several merits. First, we design a spot-guided aggregation module to avoid interfering with irrelevant areas during feature aggregation. Second, we design an adaptive scaling module to adjust the size of grids according to the calculated depth information at fine stage. Extensive experimental results on five standard benchmarks demonstrate that our ASTR performs favorably against state-of-the-art methods. Our code will be released on https://astr2023.github.io. 

**Title:** GPTEval: NLG Evaluation using GPT-4 with Better Human Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16634

**Abstract:** The quality of texts generated by natural language generation (NLG) systems is hard to measure automatically. Conventional reference-based metrics, such as BLEU and ROUGE, have been shown to have relatively low correlation with human judgments, especially for tasks that require creativity and diversity. Recent studies suggest using large language models (LLMs) as reference-free metrics for NLG evaluation, which have the benefit of being applicable to new tasks that lack human references. However, these LLM-based evaluators still have lower human correspondence than medium-size neural evaluators. In this work, we present GPTEval, a framework of using large language models with chain-of-thoughts (CoT) and a form-filling paradigm, to assess the quality of NLG outputs. We experiment with two generation tasks, text summarization and dialogue generation. We show that GPTEval with GPT-4 as the backbone model achieves a Spearman correlation of 0.514 with human on summarization task, outperforming all previous methods by a large margin. We also propose preliminary analysis on the behavior of LLM-based evaluators, and highlight the potential issue of LLM-based evaluators having a bias towards the LLM-generated texts. 

**Title:** SC-VAE: Sparse Coding-based Variational Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16666

**Abstract:** Learning rich data representations from unlabeled data is a key challenge towards applying deep learning algorithms in downstream supervised tasks. Several variants of variational autoencoders have been proposed to learn compact data representaitons by encoding high-dimensional data in a lower dimensional space. Two main classes of VAEs methods may be distinguished depending on the characteristics of the meta-priors that are enforced in the representation learning step. The first class of methods derives a continuous encoding by assuming a static prior distribution in the latent space. The second class of methods learns instead a discrete latent representation using vector quantization (VQ) along with a codebook. However, both classes of methods suffer from certain challenges, which may lead to suboptimal image reconstruction results. The first class of methods suffers from posterior collapse, whereas the second class of methods suffers from codebook collapse. To address these challenges, we introduce a new VAE variant, termed SC-VAE (sparse coding-based VAE), which integrates sparse coding within variational autoencoder framework. Instead of learning a continuous or discrete latent representation, the proposed method learns a sparse data representation that consists of a linear combination of a small number of learned atoms. The sparse coding problem is solved using a learnable version of the iterative shrinkage thresholding algorithm (ISTA). Experiments on two image datasets demonstrate that our model can achieve improved image reconstruction results compared to state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, the use of learned sparse code vectors allows us to perform downstream task like coarse image segmentation through clustering image patches. 

**Title:** MDP: A Generalized Framework for Text-Guided Image Editing by  Manipulating the Diffusion Path  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16765

**Abstract:** Image generation using diffusion can be controlled in multiple ways. In this paper, we systematically analyze the equations of modern generative diffusion networks to propose a framework, called MDP, that explains the design space of suitable manipulations. We identify 5 different manipulations, including intermediate latent, conditional embedding, cross attention maps, guidance, and predicted noise. We analyze the corresponding parameters of these manipulations and the manipulation schedule. We show that some previous editing methods fit nicely into our framework. Particularly, we identified one specific configuration as a new type of control by manipulating the predicted noise, which can perform higher-quality edits than previous work for a variety of local and global edits. 

**Title:** A Novel Patent Similarity Measurement Methodology: Semantic Distance and  Technological Distance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16767

**Abstract:** Measuring similarity between patents is an essential step to ensure novelty of innovation. However, a large number of methods of measuring the similarity between patents still rely on manual classification of patents by experts. Another body of research has proposed automated methods; nevertheless, most of it solely focuses on the semantic similarity of patents. In order to tackle these limitations, we propose a hybrid method for automatically measuring the similarity between patents, considering both semantic and technological similarities. We measure the semantic similarity based on patent texts using BERT, calculate the technological similarity with IPC codes using Jaccard similarity, and perform hybridization by assigning weights to the two similarity methods. Our evaluation result demonstrates that the proposed method outperforms the baseline that considers the semantic similarity only. 

**Title:** AnnoLLM: Making Large Language Models to Be Better Crowdsourced  Annotators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16854

**Abstract:** Many natural language processing (NLP) tasks rely on labeled data to train machine learning models to achieve high performance. However, data annotation can be a time-consuming and expensive process, especially when the task involves a large amount of data or requires specialized domains. Recently, GPT-3.5 series models have demonstrated remarkable few-shot and zero-shot ability across various NLP tasks. In this paper, we first claim that large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-3.5, can serve as an excellent crowdsourced annotator by providing them with sufficient guidance and demonstrated examples. To make LLMs to be better annotators, we propose a two-step approach, 'explain-then-annotate'. To be more precise, we begin by creating prompts for every demonstrated example, which we subsequently utilize to prompt a LLM to provide an explanation for why the specific ground truth answer/label was chosen for that particular example. Following this, we construct the few-shot chain-of-thought prompt with the self-generated explanation and employ it to annotate the unlabeled data. We conduct experiments on three tasks, including user input and keyword relevance assessment, BoolQ and WiC. The annotation results from GPT-3.5 surpasses those from crowdsourced annotation for user input and keyword relevance assessment. Additionally, for the other two tasks, GPT-3.5 achieves results that are comparable to those obtained through crowdsourced annotation. 

**Title:** Robust Dancer: Long-term 3D Dance Synthesis Using Unpaired Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16856

**Abstract:** How to automatically synthesize natural-looking dance movements based on a piece of music is an incrementally popular yet challenging task. Most existing data-driven approaches require hard-to-get paired training data and fail to generate long sequences of motion due to error accumulation of autoregressive structure. We present a novel 3D dance synthesis system that only needs unpaired data for training and could generate realistic long-term motions at the same time. For the unpaired data training, we explore the disentanglement of beat and style, and propose a Transformer-based model free of reliance upon paired data. For the synthesis of long-term motions, we devise a new long-history attention strategy. It first queries the long-history embedding through an attention computation and then explicitly fuses this embedding into the generation pipeline via multimodal adaptation gate (MAG). Objective and subjective evaluations show that our results are comparable to strong baseline methods, despite not requiring paired training data, and are robust when inferring long-term music. To our best knowledge, we are the first to achieve unpaired data training - an ability that enables to alleviate data limitations effectively. Our code is released on https://github.com/BFeng14/RobustDancer 

**Title:** Multi-scale Hierarchical Vision Transformer with Cascaded Attention  Decoding for Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16892

**Abstract:** Transformers have shown great success in medical image segmentation. However, transformers may exhibit a limited generalization ability due to the underlying single-scale self-attention (SA) mechanism. In this paper, we address this issue by introducing a Multi-scale hiERarchical vIsion Transformer (MERIT) backbone network, which improves the generalizability of the model by computing SA at multiple scales. We also incorporate an attention-based decoder, namely Cascaded Attention Decoding (CASCADE), for further refinement of multi-stage features generated by MERIT. Finally, we introduce an effective multi-stage feature mixing loss aggregation (MUTATION) method for better model training via implicit ensembling. Our experiments on two widely used medical image segmentation benchmarks (i.e., Synapse Multi-organ, ACDC) demonstrate the superior performance of MERIT over state-of-the-art methods. Our MERIT architecture and MUTATION loss aggregation can be used with downstream medical image and semantic segmentation tasks. 

**Title:** ViewRefer: Grasp the Multi-view Knowledge for 3D Visual Grounding with  GPT and Prototype Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16894

**Abstract:** Understanding 3D scenes from multi-view inputs has been proven to alleviate the view discrepancy issue in 3D visual grounding. However, existing methods normally neglect the view cues embedded in the text modality and fail to weigh the relative importance of different views. In this paper, we propose ViewRefer, a multi-view framework for 3D visual grounding exploring how to grasp the view knowledge from both text and 3D modalities. For the text branch, ViewRefer leverages the diverse linguistic knowledge of large-scale language models, e.g., GPT, to expand a single grounding text to multiple geometry-consistent descriptions. Meanwhile, in the 3D modality, a transformer fusion module with inter-view attention is introduced to boost the interaction of objects across views. On top of that, we further present a set of learnable multi-view prototypes, which memorize scene-agnostic knowledge for different views, and enhance the framework from two perspectives: a view-guided attention module for more robust text features, and a view-guided scoring strategy during the final prediction. With our designed paradigm, ViewRefer achieves superior performance on three benchmarks and surpasses the second-best by +2.8%, +1.2%, and +0.73% on Sr3D, Nr3D, and ScanRefer. Code will be released at https://github.com/ZiyuGuo99/ViewRefer3D. 

**Title:** Physics-Driven Diffusion Models for Impact Sound Synthesis from Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16897

**Abstract:** Modeling sounds emitted from physical object interactions is critical for immersive perceptual experiences in real and virtual worlds. Traditional methods of impact sound synthesis use physics simulation to obtain a set of physics parameters that could represent and synthesize the sound. However, they require fine details of both the object geometries and impact locations, which are rarely available in the real world and can not be applied to synthesize impact sounds from common videos. On the other hand, existing video-driven deep learning-based approaches could only capture the weak correspondence between visual content and impact sounds since they lack of physics knowledge. In this work, we propose a physics-driven diffusion model that can synthesize high-fidelity impact sound for a silent video clip. In addition to the video content, we propose to use additional physics priors to guide the impact sound synthesis procedure. The physics priors include both physics parameters that are directly estimated from noisy real-world impact sound examples without sophisticated setup and learned residual parameters that interpret the sound environment via neural networks. We further implement a novel diffusion model with specific training and inference strategies to combine physics priors and visual information for impact sound synthesis. Experimental results show that our model outperforms several existing systems in generating realistic impact sounds. More importantly, the physics-based representations are fully interpretable and transparent, thus enabling us to perform sound editing flexibly. 

**Title:** AutoAD: Movie Description in Context  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16899

**Abstract:** The objective of this paper is an automatic Audio Description (AD) model that ingests movies and outputs AD in text form. Generating high-quality movie AD is challenging due to the dependency of the descriptions on context, and the limited amount of training data available. In this work, we leverage the power of pretrained foundation models, such as GPT and CLIP, and only train a mapping network that bridges the two models for visually-conditioned text generation. In order to obtain high-quality AD, we make the following four contributions: (i) we incorporate context from the movie clip, AD from previous clips, as well as the subtitles; (ii) we address the lack of training data by pretraining on large-scale datasets, where visual or contextual information is unavailable, e.g. text-only AD without movies or visual captioning datasets without context; (iii) we improve on the currently available AD datasets, by removing label noise in the MAD dataset, and adding character naming information; and (iv) we obtain strong results on the movie AD task compared with previous methods. 

**Title:** Diffusion Schrdinger Bridge Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16852

**Abstract:** Solving transport problems, i.e. finding a map transporting one given distribution to another, has numerous applications in machine learning. Novel mass transport methods motivated by generative modeling have recently been proposed, e.g. Denoising Diffusion Models (DDMs) and Flow Matching Models (FMMs) implement such a transport through a Stochastic Differential Equation (SDE) or an Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE). However, while it is desirable in many applications to approximate the deterministic dynamic Optimal Transport (OT) map which admits attractive properties, DDMs and FMMs are not guaranteed to provide transports close to the OT map. In contrast, Schr\"odinger bridges (SBs) compute stochastic dynamic mappings which recover entropy-regularized versions of OT. Unfortunately, existing numerical methods approximating SBs either scale poorly with dimension or accumulate errors across iterations. In this work, we introduce Iterative Markovian Fitting, a new methodology for solving SB problems, and Diffusion Schr\"odinger Bridge Matching (DSBM), a novel numerical algorithm for computing IMF iterates. DSBM significantly improves over previous SB numerics and recovers as special/limiting cases various recent transport methods. We demonstrate the performance of DSBM on a variety of problems. 

