**Title:** RetClean: Retrieval-Based Data Cleaning Using Foundation Models and Data  Lakes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16909

**Abstract:** Can foundation models (such as ChatGPT) clean your data? In this proposal, we demonstrate that indeed ChatGPT can assist in data cleaning by suggesting corrections for specific cells in a data table (scenario 1). However, ChatGPT may struggle with datasets it has never encountered before (e.g., local enterprise data) or when the user requires an explanation of the source of the suggested clean values. To address these issues, we developed a retrieval-based method that complements ChatGPT's power with a user-provided data lake. The data lake is first indexed, we then retrieve the top-k relevant tuples to the user's query tuple and finally leverage ChatGPT to infer the correct value (scenario 2). Nevertheless, sharing enterprise data with ChatGPT, an externally hosted model, might not be feasible for privacy reasons. To assist with this scenario, we developed a custom RoBERTa-based foundation model that can be locally deployed. By fine-tuning it on a small number of examples, it can effectively make value inferences based on the retrieved tuples (scenario 3). Our proposed system, RetClean, seamlessly supports all three scenarios and provides a user-friendly GUI that enables the VLDB audience to explore and experiment with the system. 

**Title:** Evaluating GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 Models on Brazilian University Admission  Exams  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17003

**Abstract:** The present study aims to explore the capabilities of Language Models (LMs) in tackling high-stakes multiple-choice tests, represented here by the Exame Nacional do Ensino M\'edio (ENEM), a multidisciplinary entrance examination widely adopted by Brazilian universities. This exam poses challenging tasks for LMs, since its questions may span into multiple fields of knowledge, requiring understanding of information from diverse domains. For instance, a question may require comprehension of both statistics and biology to be solved. This work analyzed responses generated by GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models for questions presented in the 2009-2017 exams, as well as for questions of the 2022 exam, which were made public after the training of the models was completed. Furthermore, different prompt strategies were tested, including the use of Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompts to generate explanations for answers. On the 2022 edition, the best-performing model, GPT-4 with CoT, achieved an accuracy of 87%, largely surpassing GPT-3.5 by 11 points. The code and data used on experiments are available at https://github.com/piresramon/gpt-4-enem. 

**Title:** How do decoding algorithms distribute information in dialogue responses?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17006

**Abstract:** Humans tend to follow the Uniform Information Density (UID) principle by distributing information evenly in utterances. We study if decoding algorithms implicitly follow this UID principle, and under what conditions adherence to UID might be desirable for dialogue generation. We generate responses using different decoding algorithms with GPT-2 on the Persona-Chat dataset and collect human judgments on their quality using Amazon Mechanical Turk. We find that (i) surprisingly, model-generated responses follow the UID principle to a greater extent than human responses, and (ii) decoding algorithms that promote UID do not generate higher-quality responses. Instead, when we control for surprisal, non-uniformity of information density correlates with the quality of responses with very low/high surprisal. Our findings indicate that encouraging non-uniform responses is a potential solution to the ``likelihood trap'' problem (quality degradation in very high-likelihood text). Our dataset containing multiple candidate responses per dialog history along with human-annotated quality ratings is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/saranya132/dialog_uid_gpt2. 

**Title:** HyperDiffusion: Generating Implicit Neural Fields with Weight-Space  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17015

**Abstract:** Implicit neural fields, typically encoded by a multilayer perceptron (MLP) that maps from coordinates (e.g., xyz) to signals (e.g., signed distances), have shown remarkable promise as a high-fidelity and compact representation. However, the lack of a regular and explicit grid structure also makes it challenging to apply generative modeling directly on implicit neural fields in order to synthesize new data. To this end, we propose HyperDiffusion, a novel approach for unconditional generative modeling of implicit neural fields. HyperDiffusion operates directly on MLP weights and generates new neural implicit fields encoded by synthesized MLP parameters. Specifically, a collection of MLPs is first optimized to faithfully represent individual data samples. Subsequently, a diffusion process is trained in this MLP weight space to model the underlying distribution of neural implicit fields. HyperDiffusion enables diffusion modeling over a implicit, compact, and yet high-fidelity representation of complex signals across 3D shapes and 4D mesh animations within one single unified framework. 

**Title:** The secret of immersion: actor driven camera movement generation for  auto-cinematography  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17041

**Abstract:** Immersion plays a vital role when designing cinematic creations, yet the difficulty in immersive shooting prevents designers to create satisfactory outputs. In this work, we analyze the specific components that contribute to cinematographic immersion considering spatial, emotional, and aesthetic level, while these components are then combined into a high-level evaluation mechanism. Guided by such a immersion mechanism, we propose a GAN-based camera control system that is able to generate actor-driven camera movements in the 3D virtual environment to obtain immersive film sequences. The proposed encoder-decoder architecture in the generation flow transfers character motion into camera trajectory conditioned on an emotion factor. This ensures spatial and emotional immersion by performing actor-camera synchronization physically and psychologically. The emotional immersion is further strengthened by incorporating regularization that controls camera shakiness for expressing different mental statuses. To achieve aesthetic immersion, we make effort to improve aesthetic frame compositions by modifying the synthesized camera trajectory. Based on a self-supervised adjustor, the adjusted camera placements can project the character to the appropriate on-frame locations following aesthetic rules. The experimental results indicate that our proposed camera control system can efficiently offer immersive cinematic videos, both quantitatively and qualitatively, based on a fine-grained immersive shooting. Live examples are shown in the supplementary video. 

**Title:** DERA: Enhancing Large Language Model Completions with Dialog-Enabled  Resolving Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17071

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have emerged as valuable tools for many natural language understanding tasks. In safety-critical applications such as healthcare, the utility of these models is governed by their ability to generate outputs that are factually accurate and complete. In this work, we present dialog-enabled resolving agents (DERA). DERA is a paradigm made possible by the increased conversational abilities of LLMs, namely GPT-4. It provides a simple, interpretable forum for models to communicate feedback and iteratively improve output. We frame our dialog as a discussion between two agent types - a Researcher, who processes information and identifies crucial problem components, and a Decider, who has the autonomy to integrate the Researcher's information and makes judgments on the final output. 

**Title:** DiffCollage: Parallel Generation of Large Content with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17076

**Abstract:** We present DiffCollage, a compositional diffusion model that can generate large content by leveraging diffusion models trained on generating pieces of the large content. Our approach is based on a factor graph representation where each factor node represents a portion of the content and a variable node represents their overlap. This representation allows us to aggregate intermediate outputs from diffusion models defined on individual nodes to generate content of arbitrary size and shape in parallel without resorting to an autoregressive generation procedure. We apply DiffCollage to various tasks, including infinite image generation, panorama image generation, and long-duration text-guided motion generation. Extensive experimental results with a comparison to strong autoregressive baselines verify the effectiveness of our approach. 

**Title:** Enhanced Stable View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17094

**Abstract:** We introduce an approach to enhance the novel view synthesis from images taken from a freely moving camera. The introduced approach focuses on outdoor scenes where recovering accurate geometric scaffold and camera pose is challenging, leading to inferior results using the state-of-the-art stable view synthesis (SVS) method. SVS and related methods fail for outdoor scenes primarily due to (i) over-relying on the multiview stereo (MVS) for geometric scaffold recovery and (ii) assuming COLMAP computed camera poses as the best possible estimates, despite it being well-studied that MVS 3D reconstruction accuracy is limited to scene disparity and camera-pose accuracy is sensitive to key-point correspondence selection. This work proposes a principled way to enhance novel view synthesis solutions drawing inspiration from the basics of multiple view geometry. By leveraging the complementary behavior of MVS and monocular depth, we arrive at a better scene depth per view for nearby and far points, respectively. Moreover, our approach jointly refines camera poses with image-based rendering via multiple rotation averaging graph optimization. The recovered scene depth and the camera-pose help better view-dependent on-surface feature aggregation of the entire scene. Extensive evaluation of our approach on the popular benchmark dataset, such as Tanks and Temples, shows substantial improvement in view synthesis results compared to the prior art. For instance, our method shows 1.5 dB of PSNR improvement on the Tank and Temples. Similar statistics are observed when tested on other benchmark datasets such as FVS, Mip-NeRF 360, and DTU. 

**Title:** BEVFusion4D: Learning LiDAR-Camera Fusion Under Bird's-Eye-View via  Cross-Modality Guidance and Temporal Aggregation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17099

**Abstract:** Integrating LiDAR and Camera information into Bird's-Eye-View (BEV) has become an essential topic for 3D object detection in autonomous driving. Existing methods mostly adopt an independent dual-branch framework to generate LiDAR and camera BEV, then perform an adaptive modality fusion. Since point clouds provide more accurate localization and geometry information, they could serve as a reliable spatial prior to acquiring relevant semantic information from the images. Therefore, we design a LiDAR-Guided View Transformer (LGVT) to effectively obtain the camera representation in BEV space and thus benefit the whole dual-branch fusion system. LGVT takes camera BEV as the primitive semantic query, repeatedly leveraging the spatial cue of LiDAR BEV for extracting image features across multiple camera views. Moreover, we extend our framework into the temporal domain with our proposed Temporal Deformable Alignment (TDA) module, which aims to aggregate BEV features from multiple historical frames. Including these two modules, our framework dubbed BEVFusion4D achieves state-of-the-art results in 3D object detection, with 72.0% mAP and 73.5% NDS on the nuScenes validation set, and 73.3% mAP and 74.7% NDS on nuScenes test set, respectively. 

**Title:** Deep Generative Model and Its Applications in Efficient Wireless Network  Management: A Tutorial and Case Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17114

**Abstract:** With the phenomenal success of diffusion models and ChatGPT, deep generation models (DGMs) have been experiencing explosive growth from 2022. Not limited to content generation, DGMs are also widely adopted in Internet of Things, Metaverse, and digital twin, due to their outstanding ability to represent complex patterns and generate plausible samples. In this article, we explore the applications of DGMs in a crucial task, i.e., improving the efficiency of wireless network management. Specifically, we firstly overview the generative AI, as well as three representative DGMs. Then, a DGM-empowered framework for wireless network management is proposed, in which we elaborate the issues of the conventional network management approaches, why DGMs can address them efficiently, and the step-by-step workflow for applying DGMs in managing wireless networks. Moreover, we conduct a case study on network economics, using the state-of-the-art DGM model, i.e., diffusion model, to generate effective contracts for incentivizing the mobile AI-Generated Content (AIGC) services. Last but not least, we discuss important open directions for the further research. 

**Title:** Masked and Adaptive Transformer for Exemplar Based Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17123

**Abstract:** We present a novel framework for exemplar based image translation. Recent advanced methods for this task mainly focus on establishing cross-domain semantic correspondence, which sequentially dominates image generation in the manner of local style control. Unfortunately, cross-domain semantic matching is challenging; and matching errors ultimately degrade the quality of generated images. To overcome this challenge, we improve the accuracy of matching on the one hand, and diminish the role of matching in image generation on the other hand. To achieve the former, we propose a masked and adaptive transformer (MAT) for learning accurate cross-domain correspondence, and executing context-aware feature augmentation. To achieve the latter, we use source features of the input and global style codes of the exemplar, as supplementary information, for decoding an image. Besides, we devise a novel contrastive style learning method, for acquire quality-discriminative style representations, which in turn benefit high-quality image generation. Experimental results show that our method, dubbed MATEBIT, performs considerably better than state-of-the-art methods, in diverse image translation tasks. The codes are available at \url{https://github.com/AiArt-HDU/MATEBIT}. 

**Title:** NeILF++: Inter-Reflectable Light Fields for Geometry and Material  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17147

**Abstract:** We present a novel differentiable rendering framework for joint geometry, material, and lighting estimation from multi-view images. In contrast to previous methods which assume a simplified environment map or co-located flashlights, in this work, we formulate the lighting of a static scene as one neural incident light field (NeILF) and one outgoing neural radiance field (NeRF). The key insight of the proposed method is the union of the incident and outgoing light fields through physically-based rendering and inter-reflections between surfaces, making it possible to disentangle the scene geometry, material, and lighting from image observations in a physically-based manner. The proposed incident light and inter-reflection framework can be easily applied to other NeRF systems. We show that our method can not only decompose the outgoing radiance into incident lights and surface materials, but also serve as a surface refinement module that further improves the reconstruction detail of the neural surface. We demonstrate on several datasets that the proposed method is able to achieve state-of-the-art results in terms of geometry reconstruction quality, material estimation accuracy, and the fidelity of novel view rendering. 

**Title:** Mixed Autoencoder for Self-supervised Visual Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17152

**Abstract:** Masked Autoencoder (MAE) has demonstrated superior performance on various vision tasks via randomly masking image patches and reconstruction. However, effective data augmentation strategies for MAE still remain open questions, different from those in contrastive learning that serve as the most important part. This paper studies the prevailing mixing augmentation for MAE. We first demonstrate that naive mixing will in contrast degenerate model performance due to the increase of mutual information (MI). To address, we propose homologous recognition, an auxiliary pretext task, not only to alleviate the MI increasement by explicitly requiring each patch to recognize homologous patches, but also to perform object-aware self-supervised pre-training for better downstream dense perception performance. With extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our proposed Mixed Autoencoder (MixedAE) achieves the state-of-the-art transfer results among masked image modeling (MIM) augmentations on different downstream tasks with significant efficiency. Specifically, our MixedAE outperforms MAE by +0.3% accuracy, +1.7 mIoU and +0.9 AP on ImageNet-1K, ADE20K and COCO respectively with a standard ViT-Base. Moreover, MixedAE surpasses iBOT, a strong MIM method combined with instance discrimination, while accelerating training by 2x. To our best knowledge, this is the very first work to consider mixing for MIM from the perspective of pretext task design. Code will be made available. 

**Title:** Discriminative Class Tokens for Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17155

**Abstract:** Recent advances in text-to-image diffusion models have enabled the generation of diverse and high-quality images. However, generated images often fall short of depicting subtle details and are susceptible to errors due to ambiguity in the input text. One way of alleviating these issues is to train diffusion models on class-labeled datasets. This comes with a downside, doing so limits their expressive power: (i) supervised datasets are generally small compared to large-scale scraped text-image datasets on which text-to-image models are trained, and so the quality and diversity of generated images are severely affected, or (ii) the input is a hard-coded label, as opposed to free-form text, which limits the control over the generated images. 

**Title:** KD-DLGAN: Data Limited Image Generation via Knowledge Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17158

**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) rely heavily on large-scale training data for training high-quality image generation models. With limited training data, the GAN discriminator often suffers from severe overfitting which directly leads to degraded generation especially in generation diversity. Inspired by the recent advances in knowledge distillation (KD), we propose KD-DLGAN, a knowledge-distillation based generation framework that introduces pre-trained vision-language models for training effective data-limited generation models. KD-DLGAN consists of two innovative designs. The first is aggregated generative KD that mitigates the discriminator overfitting by challenging the discriminator with harder learning tasks and distilling more generalizable knowledge from the pre-trained models. The second is correlated generative KD that improves the generation diversity by distilling and preserving the diverse image-text correlation within the pre-trained models. Extensive experiments over multiple benchmarks show that KD-DLGAN achieves superior image generation with limited training data. In addition, KD-DLGAN complements the state-of-the-art with consistent and substantial performance gains. 

**Title:** LayoutDiffusion: Controllable Diffusion Model for Layout-to-image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17189

**Abstract:** Recently, diffusion models have achieved great success in image synthesis. However, when it comes to the layout-to-image generation where an image often has a complex scene of multiple objects, how to make strong control over both the global layout map and each detailed object remains a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a diffusion model named LayoutDiffusion that can obtain higher generation quality and greater controllability than the previous works. To overcome the difficult multimodal fusion of image and layout, we propose to construct a structural image patch with region information and transform the patched image into a special layout to fuse with the normal layout in a unified form. Moreover, Layout Fusion Module (LFM) and Object-aware Cross Attention (OaCA) are proposed to model the relationship among multiple objects and designed to be object-aware and position-sensitive, allowing for precisely controlling the spatial related information. Extensive experiments show that our LayoutDiffusion outperforms the previous SOTA methods on FID, CAS by relatively 46.35%, 26.70% on COCO-stuff and 44.29%, 41.82% on VG. Code is available at https://github.com/ZGCTroy/LayoutDiffusion. 

**Title:** LatentForensics: Towards lighter deepfake detection in the StyleGAN  latent space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17222

**Abstract:** The classification of forged videos has been a challenge for the past few years. Deepfake classifiers can now reliably predict whether or not video frames have been tampered with. However, their performance is tied to both the dataset used for training and the analyst's computational power. We propose a deepfake classification method that operates in the latent space of a state-of-the-art generative adversarial network (GAN) trained on high-quality face images. The proposed method leverages the structure of the latent space of StyleGAN to learn a lightweight classification model. Experimental results on a standard dataset reveal that the proposed approach outperforms other state-of-the-art deepfake classification methods. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study showing the interest of the latent space of StyleGAN for deepfake classification. Combined with other recent studies on the interpretation and manipulation of this latent space, we believe that the proposed approach can help in developing robust deepfake classification methods based on interpretable high-level properties of face images. 

**Title:** Streaming Video Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17228

**Abstract:** Video understanding tasks have traditionally been modeled by two separate architectures, specially tailored for two distinct tasks. Sequence-based video tasks, such as action recognition, use a video backbone to directly extract spatiotemporal features, while frame-based video tasks, such as multiple object tracking (MOT), rely on single fixed-image backbone to extract spatial features. In contrast, we propose to unify video understanding tasks into one novel streaming video architecture, referred to as Streaming Vision Transformer (S-ViT). S-ViT first produces frame-level features with a memory-enabled temporally-aware spatial encoder to serve the frame-based video tasks. Then the frame features are input into a task-related temporal decoder to obtain spatiotemporal features for sequence-based tasks. The efficiency and efficacy of S-ViT is demonstrated by the state-of-the-art accuracy in the sequence-based action recognition task and the competitive advantage over conventional architecture in the frame-based MOT task. We believe that the concept of streaming video model and the implementation of S-ViT are solid steps towards a unified deep learning architecture for video understanding. Code will be available at https://github.com/yuzhms/Streaming-Video-Model. 

**Title:** Humans in Humans Out: On GPT Converging Toward Common Sense in both  Success and Failure  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17276

**Abstract:** Increase in computational scale and fine-tuning has seen a dramatic improvement in the quality of outputs of large language models (LLMs) like GPT. Given that both GPT-3 and GPT-4 were trained on large quantities of human-generated text, we might ask to what extent their outputs reflect patterns of human thinking, both for correct and incorrect cases. The Erotetic Theory of Reason (ETR) provides a symbolic generative model of both human success and failure in thinking, across propositional, quantified, and probabilistic reasoning, as well as decision-making. We presented GPT-3, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4 with 61 central inference and judgment problems from a recent book-length presentation of ETR, consisting of experimentally verified data-points on human judgment and extrapolated data-points predicted by ETR, with correct inference patterns as well as fallacies and framing effects (the ETR61 benchmark). ETR61 includes classics like Wason's card task, illusory inferences, the decoy effect, and opportunity-cost neglect, among others. GPT-3 showed evidence of ETR-predicted outputs for 59% of these examples, rising to 77% in GPT-3.5 and 75% in GPT-4. Remarkably, the production of human-like fallacious judgments increased from 18% in GPT-3 to 33% in GPT-3.5 and 34% in GPT-4. This suggests that larger and more advanced LLMs may develop a tendency toward more human-like mistakes, as relevant thought patterns are inherent in human-produced training data. According to ETR, the same fundamental patterns are involved both in successful and unsuccessful ordinary reasoning, so that the "bad" cases could paradoxically be learned from the "good" cases. We further present preliminary evidence that ETR-inspired prompt engineering could reduce instances of these mistakes. 

**Title:** Masked Autoencoders as Image Processors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17316

**Abstract:** Transformers have shown significant effectiveness for various vision tasks including both high-level vision and low-level vision. Recently, masked autoencoders (MAE) for feature pre-training have further unleashed the potential of Transformers, leading to state-of-the-art performances on various high-level vision tasks. However, the significance of MAE pre-training on low-level vision tasks has not been sufficiently explored. In this paper, we show that masked autoencoders are also scalable self-supervised learners for image processing tasks. We first present an efficient Transformer model considering both channel attention and shifted-window-based self-attention termed CSformer. Then we develop an effective MAE architecture for image processing (MAEIP) tasks. Extensive experimental results show that with the help of MAEIP pre-training, our proposed CSformer achieves state-of-the-art performance on various image processing tasks, including Gaussian denoising, real image denoising, single-image motion deblurring, defocus deblurring, and image deraining. 

**Title:** Yes but.. Can ChatGPT Identify Entities in Historical Documents?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17322

**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have been leveraged for several years now, obtaining state-of-the-art performance in recognizing entities from modern documents. For the last few months, the conversational agent ChatGPT has "prompted" a lot of interest in the scientific community and public due to its capacity of generating plausible-sounding answers. In this paper, we explore this ability by probing it in the named entity recognition and classification (NERC) task in primary sources (e.g., historical newspapers and classical commentaries) in a zero-shot manner and by comparing it with state-of-the-art LM-based systems. Our findings indicate several shortcomings in identifying entities in historical text that range from the consistency of entity annotation guidelines, entity complexity, and code-switching, to the specificity of prompting. Moreover, as expected, the inaccessibility of historical archives to the public (and thus on the Internet) also impacts its performance. 

**Title:** PMatch: Paired Masked Image Modeling for Dense Geometric Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17342

**Abstract:** Dense geometric matching determines the dense pixel-wise correspondence between a source and support image corresponding to the same 3D structure. Prior works employ an encoder of transformer blocks to correlate the two-frame features. However, existing monocular pretraining tasks, e.g., image classification, and masked image modeling (MIM), can not pretrain the cross-frame module, yielding less optimal performance. To resolve this, we reformulate the MIM from reconstructing a single masked image to reconstructing a pair of masked images, enabling the pretraining of transformer module. Additionally, we incorporate a decoder into pretraining for improved upsampling results. Further, to be robust to the textureless area, we propose a novel cross-frame global matching module (CFGM). Since the most textureless area is planar surfaces, we propose a homography loss to further regularize its learning. Combined together, we achieve the State-of-The-Art (SoTA) performance on geometric matching. Codes and models are available at https://github.com/ShngJZ/PMatch. 

**Title:** Incremental Self-Supervised Learning Based on Transformer for Anomaly  Detection and Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17354

**Abstract:** In the machine learning domain, research on anomaly detection and localization within image data has garnered significant attention, particularly in practical applications such as industrial defect detection. While existing approaches predominantly rely on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) as their backbone network, we propose an innovative method based on the Transformer backbone network. Our approach employs a two-stage incremental learning strategy. In the first stage, we train a Masked Autoencoder (MAE) model exclusively on normal images. Subsequently, in the second stage, we implement pixel-level data augmentation techniques to generate corrupted normal images and their corresponding pixel labels. This process enables the model to learn how to repair corrupted regions and classify the state of each pixel. Ultimately, the model produces a pixel reconstruction error matrix and a pixel anomaly probability matrix, which are combined to create an anomaly scoring matrix that effectively identifies abnormal regions. When compared to several state-of-the-art CNN-based techniques, our method demonstrates superior performance on the MVTec AD dataset, achieving an impressive 97.6% AUC. 

**Title:** A BERT-based Unsupervised Grammatical Error Correction Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17367

**Abstract:** Grammatical error correction (GEC) is a challenging task of natural language processing techniques. While more attempts are being made in this approach for universal languages like English or Chinese, relatively little work has been done for low-resource languages for the lack of large annotated corpora. In low-resource languages, the current unsupervised GEC based on language model scoring performs well. However, the pre-trained language model is still to be explored in this context. This study proposes a BERT-based unsupervised GEC framework, where GEC is viewed as multi-class classification task. The framework contains three modules: data flow construction module, sentence perplexity scoring module, and error detecting and correcting module. We propose a novel scoring method for pseudo-perplexity to evaluate a sentence's probable correctness and construct a Tagalog corpus for Tagalog GEC research. It obtains competitive performance on the Tagalog corpus we construct and open-source Indonesian corpus and it demonstrates that our framework is complementary to baseline method for low-resource GEC task. 

**Title:** SynBody: Synthetic Dataset with Layered Human Models for 3D Human  Perception and Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17368

**Abstract:** Synthetic data has emerged as a promising source for 3D human research as it offers low-cost access to large-scale human datasets. To advance the diversity and annotation quality of human models, we introduce a new synthetic dataset, Synbody, with three appealing features: 1) a clothed parametric human model that can generate a diverse range of subjects; 2) the layered human representation that naturally offers high-quality 3D annotations to support multiple tasks; 3) a scalable system for producing realistic data to facilitate real-world tasks. The dataset comprises 1.7M images with corresponding accurate 3D annotations, covering 10,000 human body models, 1000 actions, and various viewpoints. The dataset includes two subsets for human mesh recovery as well as human neural rendering. Extensive experiments on SynBody indicate that it substantially enhances both SMPL and SMPL-X estimation. Furthermore, the incorporation of layered annotations offers a valuable training resource for investigating the Human Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF). 

**Title:** A Study of Autoregressive Decoders for Multi-Tasking in Computer Vision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17376

**Abstract:** There has been a recent explosion of computer vision models which perform many tasks and are composed of an image encoder (usually a ViT) and an autoregressive decoder (usually a Transformer). However, most of this work simply presents one system and its results, leaving many questions regarding design decisions and trade-offs of such systems unanswered. In this work, we aim to provide such answers. We take a close look at autoregressive decoders for multi-task learning in multimodal computer vision, including classification, captioning, visual question answering, and optical character recognition. Through extensive systematic experiments, we study the effects of task and data mixture, training and regularization hyperparameters, conditioning type and specificity, modality combination, and more. Importantly, we compare these to well-tuned single-task baselines to highlight the cost incurred by multi-tasking. A key finding is that a small decoder learned on top of a frozen pretrained encoder works surprisingly well. We call this setup locked-image tuning with decoder (LiT-decoder). It can be seen as teaching a decoder to interact with a pretrained vision model via natural language. 

**Title:** Medical Intervention Duration Estimation Using Language-enhanced  Transformer Encoder with Medical Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17408

**Abstract:** In recent years, estimating the duration of medical intervention based on electronic health records (EHRs) has gained significant attention in the filed of clinical decision support. However, current models largely focus on structured data, leaving out information from the unstructured clinical free-text data. To address this, we present a novel language-enhanced transformer-based framework, which projects all relevant clinical data modalities (continuous, categorical, binary, and free-text features) into a harmonized language latent space using a pre-trained sentence encoder with the help of medical prompts. The proposed method enables the integration of information from different modalities within the cell transformer encoder and leads to more accurate duration estimation for medical intervention. Our experimental results on both US-based (length of stay in ICU estimation) and Asian (surgical duration prediction) medical datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed framework, which outperforms tailored baseline approaches and exhibits robustness to data corruption in EHRs. 

**Title:** Assessing Cross-Cultural Alignment between ChatGPT and Human Societies:  An Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17466

**Abstract:** The recent release of ChatGPT has garnered widespread recognition for its exceptional ability to generate human-like responses in dialogue. Given its usage by users from various nations and its training on a vast multilingual corpus that incorporates diverse cultural and societal norms, it is crucial to evaluate its effectiveness in cultural adaptation. In this paper, we investigate the underlying cultural background of ChatGPT by analyzing its responses to questions designed to quantify human cultural differences. Our findings suggest that, when prompted with American context, ChatGPT exhibits a strong alignment with American culture, but it adapts less effectively to other cultural contexts. Furthermore, by using different prompts to probe the model, we show that English prompts reduce the variance in model responses, flattening out cultural differences and biasing them towards American culture. This study provides valuable insights into the cultural implications of ChatGPT and highlights the necessity of greater diversity and cultural awareness in language technologies. 

**Title:** PoseFormerV2: Exploring Frequency Domain for Efficient and Robust 3D  Human Pose Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17472

**Abstract:** Recently, transformer-based methods have gained significant success in sequential 2D-to-3D lifting human pose estimation. As a pioneering work, PoseFormer captures spatial relations of human joints in each video frame and human dynamics across frames with cascaded transformer layers and has achieved impressive performance. However, in real scenarios, the performance of PoseFormer and its follow-ups is limited by two factors: (a) The length of the input joint sequence; (b) The quality of 2D joint detection. Existing methods typically apply self-attention to all frames of the input sequence, causing a huge computational burden when the frame number is increased to obtain advanced estimation accuracy, and they are not robust to noise naturally brought by the limited capability of 2D joint detectors. In this paper, we propose PoseFormerV2, which exploits a compact representation of lengthy skeleton sequences in the frequency domain to efficiently scale up the receptive field and boost robustness to noisy 2D joint detection. With minimum modifications to PoseFormer, the proposed method effectively fuses features both in the time domain and frequency domain, enjoying a better speed-accuracy trade-off than its precursor. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets (i.e., Human3.6M and MPI-INF-3DHP) demonstrate that the proposed approach significantly outperforms the original PoseFormer and other transformer-based variants. Code is released at \url{https://github.com/QitaoZhao/PoseFormerV2}. 

**Title:** Seeing What You Said: Talking Face Generation Guided by a Lip Reading  Expert  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17480

**Abstract:** Talking face generation, also known as speech-to-lip generation, reconstructs facial motions concerning lips given coherent speech input. The previous studies revealed the importance of lip-speech synchronization and visual quality. Despite much progress, they hardly focus on the content of lip movements i.e., the visual intelligibility of the spoken words, which is an important aspect of generation quality. To address the problem, we propose using a lip-reading expert to improve the intelligibility of the generated lip regions by penalizing the incorrect generation results. Moreover, to compensate for data scarcity, we train the lip-reading expert in an audio-visual self-supervised manner. With a lip-reading expert, we propose a novel contrastive learning to enhance lip-speech synchronization, and a transformer to encode audio synchronically with video, while considering global temporal dependency of audio. For evaluation, we propose a new strategy with two different lip-reading experts to measure intelligibility of the generated videos. Rigorous experiments show that our proposal is superior to other State-of-the-art (SOTA) methods, such as Wav2Lip, in reading intelligibility i.e., over 38% Word Error Rate (WER) on LRS2 dataset and 27.8% accuracy on LRW dataset. We also achieve the SOTA performance in lip-speech synchronization and comparable performances in visual quality. 

**Title:** Improving the Diproche CNL through autoformalization via GPT-3  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17513

**Abstract:** The Diproche system is an automated proof checker for texts written in a controlled fragment of German, designed for didactical applications in classes introducing students to proofs for the first time. The first version of the system used a controlled natural language for which a Prolog formalization routine was written. In this paper, we explore the possibility of prompting large language models for autoformalization in the context of Diproche, with encouraging first results. 

**Title:** PAIR-Diffusion: Object-Level Image Editing with Structure-and-Appearance  Paired Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17546

**Abstract:** Image editing using diffusion models has witnessed extremely fast-paced growth recently. There are various ways in which previous works enable controlling and editing images. Some works use high-level conditioning such as text, while others use low-level conditioning. Nevertheless, most of them lack fine-grained control over the properties of the different objects present in the image, i.e. object-level image editing. In this work, we consider an image as a composition of multiple objects, each defined by various properties. Out of these properties, we identify structure and appearance as the most intuitive to understand and useful for editing purposes. We propose Structure-and-Appearance Paired Diffusion model (PAIR-Diffusion), which is trained using structure and appearance information explicitly extracted from the images. The proposed model enables users to inject a reference image's appearance into the input image at both the object and global levels. Additionally, PAIR-Diffusion allows editing the structure while maintaining the style of individual components of the image unchanged. We extensively evaluate our method on LSUN datasets and the CelebA-HQ face dataset, and we demonstrate fine-grained control over both structure and appearance at the object level. We also applied the method to Stable Diffusion to edit any real image at the object level. 

**Title:** DAE-Talker: High Fidelity Speech-Driven Talking Face Generation with  Diffusion Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17550

**Abstract:** While recent research has made significant progress in speech-driven talking face generation, the quality of the generated video still lags behind that of real recordings. One reason for this is the use of handcrafted intermediate representations like facial landmarks and 3DMM coefficients, which are designed based on human knowledge and are insufficient to precisely describe facial movements. Additionally, these methods require an external pretrained model for extracting these representations, whose performance sets an upper bound on talking face generation. To address these limitations, we propose a novel method called DAE-Talker that leverages data-driven latent representations obtained from a diffusion autoencoder (DAE). DAE contains an image encoder that encodes an image into a latent vector and a DDIM image decoder that reconstructs the image from it. We train our DAE on talking face video frames and then extract their latent representations as the training target for a Conformer-based speech2latent model. This allows DAE-Talker to synthesize full video frames and produce natural head movements that align with the content of speech, rather than relying on a predetermined head pose from a template video. We also introduce pose modelling in speech2latent for pose controllability. Additionally, we propose a novel method for generating continuous video frames with the DDIM image decoder trained on individual frames, eliminating the need for modelling the joint distribution of consecutive frames directly. Our experiments show that DAE-Talker outperforms existing popular methods in lip-sync, video fidelity, and pose naturalness. We also conduct ablation studies to analyze the effectiveness of the proposed techniques and demonstrate the pose controllability of DAE-Talker. 

**Title:** DDP: Diffusion Model for Dense Visual Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17559

**Abstract:** We propose a simple, efficient, yet powerful framework for dense visual predictions based on the conditional diffusion pipeline. Our approach follows a "noise-to-map" generative paradigm for prediction by progressively removing noise from a random Gaussian distribution, guided by the image. The method, called DDP, efficiently extends the denoising diffusion process into the modern perception pipeline. Without task-specific design and architecture customization, DDP is easy to generalize to most dense prediction tasks, e.g., semantic segmentation and depth estimation. In addition, DDP shows attractive properties such as dynamic inference and uncertainty awareness, in contrast to previous single-step discriminative methods. We show top results on three representative tasks with six diverse benchmarks, without tricks, DDP achieves state-of-the-art or competitive performance on each task compared to the specialist counterparts. For example, semantic segmentation (83.9 mIoU on Cityscapes), BEV map segmentation (70.6 mIoU on nuScenes), and depth estimation (0.05 REL on KITTI). We hope that our approach will serve as a solid baseline and facilitate future research 

**Title:** SoftCLIP: Softer Cross-modal Alignment Makes CLIP Stronger  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17561

**Abstract:** During the preceding biennium, vision-language pre-training has achieved noteworthy success on several downstream tasks. Nevertheless, acquiring high-quality image-text pairs, where the pairs are entirely exclusive of each other, remains a challenging task, and noise exists in the commonly used datasets. To address this issue, we propose SoftCLIP, a novel approach that relaxes the strict one-to-one constraint and achieves a soft cross-modal alignment by introducing a softened target, which is generated from the fine-grained intra-modal self-similarity. The intra-modal guidance is indicative to enable two pairs have some local similarities and model many-to-many relationships between the two modalities. Besides, since the positive still dominates in the softened target distribution, we disentangle the negatives in the distribution to further boost the relation alignment with the negatives in the cross-modal learning. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of SoftCLIP. In particular, on ImageNet zero-shot classification task, using CC3M/CC12M as pre-training dataset, SoftCLIP brings a top-1 accuracy improvement of 6.8%/7.2% over the CLIP baseline. 

**Title:** Iterative Prompt Learning for Unsupervised Backlit Image Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17569

**Abstract:** We propose a novel unsupervised backlit image enhancement method, abbreviated as CLIP-LIT, by exploring the potential of Contrastive Language-Image Pre-Training (CLIP) for pixel-level image enhancement. We show that the open-world CLIP prior not only aids in distinguishing between backlit and well-lit images, but also in perceiving heterogeneous regions with different luminance, facilitating the optimization of the enhancement network. Unlike high-level and image manipulation tasks, directly applying CLIP to enhancement tasks is non-trivial, owing to the difficulty in finding accurate prompts. To solve this issue, we devise a prompt learning framework that first learns an initial prompt pair by constraining the text-image similarity between the prompt (negative/positive sample) and the corresponding image (backlit image/well-lit image) in the CLIP latent space. Then, we train the enhancement network based on the text-image similarity between the enhanced result and the initial prompt pair. To further improve the accuracy of the initial prompt pair, we iteratively fine-tune the prompt learning framework to reduce the distribution gaps between the backlit images, enhanced results, and well-lit images via rank learning, boosting the enhancement performance. Our method alternates between updating the prompt learning framework and enhancement network until visually pleasing results are achieved. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of visual quality and generalization ability, without requiring any paired data. 

**Title:** Using AI to Measure Parkinson's Disease Severity at Home  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17573

**Abstract:** We present an artificial intelligence system to remotely assess the motor performance of individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD). Participants performed a motor task (i.e., tapping fingers) in front of a webcam, and data from 250 global participants were rated by three expert neurologists following the Movement Disorder Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS). The neurologists' ratings were highly reliable, with an intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.88. We developed computer algorithms to obtain objective measurements that align with the MDS-UPDRS guideline and are strongly correlated with the neurologists' ratings. Our machine learning model trained on these measures outperformed an MDS-UPDRS certified rater, with a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.59 compared to the rater's MAE of 0.79. However, the model performed slightly worse than the expert neurologists (0.53 MAE). The methodology can be replicated for similar motor tasks, providing the possibility of evaluating individuals with PD and other movement disorders remotely, objectively, and in areas with limited access to neurological care. 

**Title:** HuggingGPT: Solving AI Tasks with ChatGPT and its Friends in HuggingFace  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17580

**Abstract:** Solving complicated AI tasks with different domains and modalities is a key step toward artificial general intelligence (AGI). While there are abundant AI models available for different domains and modalities, they cannot handle complicated AI tasks. Considering large language models (LLMs) have exhibited exceptional ability in language understanding, generation, interaction, and reasoning, we advocate that LLMs could act as a controller to manage existing AI models to solve complicated AI tasks and language could be a generic interface to empower this. Based on this philosophy, we present HuggingGPT, a system that leverages LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT) to connect various AI models in machine learning communities (e.g., HuggingFace) to solve AI tasks. Specifically, we use ChatGPT to conduct task planning when receiving a user request, select models according to their function descriptions available in HuggingFace, execute each subtask with the selected AI model, and summarize the response according to the execution results. By leveraging the strong language capability of ChatGPT and abundant AI models in HuggingFace, HuggingGPT is able to cover numerous sophisticated AI tasks in different modalities and domains and achieve impressive results in language, vision, speech, and other challenging tasks, which paves a new way towards AGI. 

**Title:** Forget-Me-Not: Learning to Forget in Text-to-Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17591

**Abstract:** The unlearning problem of deep learning models, once primarily an academic concern, has become a prevalent issue in the industry. The significant advances in text-to-image generation techniques have prompted global discussions on privacy, copyright, and safety, as numerous unauthorized personal IDs, content, artistic creations, and potentially harmful materials have been learned by these models and later utilized to generate and distribute uncontrolled content. To address this challenge, we propose \textbf{Forget-Me-Not}, an efficient and low-cost solution designed to safely remove specified IDs, objects, or styles from a well-configured text-to-image model in as little as 30 seconds, without impairing its ability to generate other content. Alongside our method, we introduce the \textbf{Memorization Score (M-Score)} and \textbf{ConceptBench} to measure the models' capacity to generate general concepts, grouped into three primary categories: ID, object, and style. Using M-Score and ConceptBench, we demonstrate that Forget-Me-Not can effectively eliminate targeted concepts while maintaining the model's performance on other concepts. Furthermore, Forget-Me-Not offers two practical extensions: a) removal of potentially harmful or NSFW content, and b) enhancement of model accuracy, inclusion and diversity through \textbf{concept correction and disentanglement}. It can also be adapted as a lightweight model patch for Stable Diffusion, allowing for concept manipulation and convenient distribution. To encourage future research in this critical area and promote the development of safe and inclusive generative models, we will open-source our code and ConceptBench at \href{https://github.com/SHI-Labs/Forget-Me-Not}{https://github.com/SHI-Labs/Forget-Me-Not}. 

**Title:** MobileInst: Video Instance Segmentation on the Mobile  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17594

**Abstract:** Although recent approaches aiming for video instance segmentation have achieved promising results, it is still difficult to employ those approaches for real-world applications on mobile devices, which mainly suffer from (1) heavy computation and memory cost and (2) complicated heuristics for tracking objects. To address those issues, we present MobileInst, a lightweight and mobile-friendly framework for video instance segmentation on mobile devices. Firstly, MobileInst adopts a mobile vision transformer to extract multi-level semantic features and presents an efficient query-based dual-transformer instance decoder for mask kernels and a semantic-enhanced mask decoder to generate instance segmentation per frame. Secondly, MobileInst exploits simple yet effective kernel reuse and kernel association to track objects for video instance segmentation. Further, we propose temporal query passing to enhance the tracking ability for kernels. We conduct experiments on COCO and YouTube-VIS datasets to demonstrate the superiority of MobileInst and evaluate the inference latency on a mobile CPU core of Qualcomm Snapdragon-778G, without other methods of acceleration. On the COCO dataset, MobileInst achieves 30.5 mask AP and 176 ms on the mobile CPU, which reduces the latency by 50% compared to the previous SOTA. For video instance segmentation, MobileInst achieves 35.0 AP on YouTube-VIS 2019 and 30.1 AP on YouTube-VIS 2021. Code will be available to facilitate real-world applications and future research. 

**Title:** Consistent View Synthesis with Pose-Guided Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17598

**Abstract:** Novel view synthesis from a single image has been a cornerstone problem for many Virtual Reality applications that provide immersive experiences. However, most existing techniques can only synthesize novel views within a limited range of camera motion or fail to generate consistent and high-quality novel views under significant camera movement. In this work, we propose a pose-guided diffusion model to generate a consistent long-term video of novel views from a single image. We design an attention layer that uses epipolar lines as constraints to facilitate the association between different viewpoints. Experimental results on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed diffusion model against state-of-the-art transformer-based and GAN-based approaches. 

**Title:** Zero-Shot Video Editing Using Off-The-Shelf Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17599

**Abstract:** Large-scale text-to-image diffusion models achieve unprecedented success in image generation and editing. However, how to extend such success to video editing is unclear. Recent initial attempts at video editing require significant text-to-video data and computation resources for training, which is often not accessible. In this work, we propose vid2vid-zero, a simple yet effective method for zero-shot video editing. Our vid2vid-zero leverages off-the-shelf image diffusion models, and doesn't require training on any video. At the core of our method is a null-text inversion module for text-to-video alignment, a cross-frame modeling module for temporal consistency, and a spatial regularization module for fidelity to the original video. Without any training, we leverage the dynamic nature of the attention mechanism to enable bi-directional temporal modeling at test time. Experiments and analyses show promising results in editing attributes, subjects, places, etc., in real-world videos. Code will be made available at \url{https://github.com/baaivision/vid2vid-zero}. 

**Title:** NeRF-Supervised Deep Stereo  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17603

**Abstract:** We introduce a novel framework for training deep stereo networks effortlessly and without any ground-truth. By leveraging state-of-the-art neural rendering solutions, we generate stereo training data from image sequences collected with a single handheld camera. On top of them, a NeRF-supervised training procedure is carried out, from which we exploit rendered stereo triplets to compensate for occlusions and depth maps as proxy labels. This results in stereo networks capable of predicting sharp and detailed disparity maps. Experimental results show that models trained under this regime yield a 30-40% improvement over existing self-supervised methods on the challenging Middlebury dataset, filling the gap to supervised models and, most times, outperforming them at zero-shot generalization. 

**Title:** Token Merging for Fast Stable Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17604

**Abstract:** The landscape of image generation has been forever changed by open vocabulary diffusion models. However, at their core these models use transformers, which makes generation slow. Better implementations to increase the throughput of these transformers have emerged, but they still evaluate the entire model. In this paper, we instead speed up diffusion models by exploiting natural redundancy in generated images by merging redundant tokens. After making some diffusion-specific improvements to Token Merging (ToMe), our ToMe for Stable Diffusion can reduce the number of tokens in an existing Stable Diffusion model by up to 60% while still producing high quality images without any extra training. In the process, we speed up image generation by up to 2x and reduce memory consumption by up to 5.6x. Furthermore, this speed-up stacks with efficient implementations such as xFormers, minimally impacting quality while being up to 5.4x faster for large images. Code is available at https://github.com/dbolya/tomesd. 

**Title:** AvatarCraft: Transforming Text into Neural Human Avatars with  Parameterized Shape and Pose Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17606

**Abstract:** Neural implicit fields are powerful for representing 3D scenes and generating high-quality novel views, but it remains challenging to use such implicit representations for creating a 3D human avatar with a specific identity and artistic style that can be easily animated. Our proposed method, AvatarCraft, addresses this challenge by using diffusion models to guide the learning of geometry and texture for a neural avatar based on a single text prompt. We carefully design the optimization framework of neural implicit fields, including a coarse-to-fine multi-bounding box training strategy, shape regularization, and diffusion-based constraints, to produce high-quality geometry and texture. Additionally, we make the human avatar animatable by deforming the neural implicit field with an explicit warping field that maps the target human mesh to a template human mesh, both represented using parametric human models. This simplifies animation and reshaping of the generated avatar by controlling pose and shape parameters. Extensive experiments on various text descriptions show that AvatarCraft is effective and robust in creating human avatars and rendering novel views, poses, and shapes. Our project page is: \url{https://avatar-craft.github.io/}. 

**Title:** Highly Accurate Quantum Chemical Property Prediction with Uni-Mol+  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.16982

**Abstract:** Recent developments in deep learning have made remarkable progress in speeding up the prediction of quantum chemical (QC) properties by removing the need for expensive electronic structure calculations like density functional theory. However, previous methods that relied on 1D SMILES sequences or 2D molecular graphs failed to achieve high accuracy as QC properties are primarily dependent on the 3D equilibrium conformations optimized by electronic structure methods. In this paper, we propose a novel approach called Uni-Mol+ to tackle this challenge. Firstly, given a 2D molecular graph, Uni-Mol+ generates an initial 3D conformation from inexpensive methods such as RDKit. Then, the initial conformation is iteratively optimized to its equilibrium conformation, and the optimized conformation is further used to predict the QC properties. All these steps are automatically learned using Transformer models. We observed the quality of the optimized conformation is crucial for QC property prediction performance. To effectively optimize conformation, we introduce a two-track Transformer model backbone in Uni-Mol+ and train it together with the QC property prediction task. We also design a novel training approach called linear trajectory injection to ensure proper supervision for the Uni-Mol+ learning process. Our extensive benchmarking results demonstrate that the proposed Uni-Mol+ significantly improves the accuracy of QC property prediction. We have made the code and model publicly available at \url{https://github.com/dptech-corp/Uni-Mol}. 

**Title:** A comparative evaluation of image-to-image translation methods for stain  transfer in histopathology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17009

**Abstract:** Image-to-image translation (I2I) methods allow the generation of artificial images that share the content of the original image but have a different style. With the advances in Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)-based methods, I2I methods enabled the generation of artificial images that are indistinguishable from natural images. Recently, I2I methods were also employed in histopathology for generating artificial images of in silico stained tissues from a different type of staining. We refer to this process as stain transfer. The number of I2I variants is constantly increasing, which makes a well justified choice of the most suitable I2I methods for stain transfer challenging. In our work, we compare twelve stain transfer approaches, three of which are based on traditional and nine on GAN-based image processing methods. The analysis relies on complementary quantitative measures for the quality of image translation, the assessment of the suitability for deep learning-based tissue grading, and the visual evaluation by pathologists. Our study highlights the strengths and weaknesses of the stain transfer approaches, thereby allowing a rational choice of the underlying I2I algorithms. Code, data, and trained models for stain transfer between H&E and Masson's Trichrome staining will be made available online. 

**Title:** Advances in apparent conceptual physics reasoning in ChatGPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17012

**Abstract:** ChatGPT is built on a large language model trained on an enormous corpus of human text to emulate human conversation. Despite lacking any explicit programming regarding the laws of physics, recent work by Kortemeyer (2023) has demonstrated that ChatGPT-3.5 could pass an introductory physics course at some nominal level and register something close to a minimal understanding of Newtonian Mechanics on the Force Concept Inventory. This work replicates those results and also demonstrates that the latest version, ChatGPT-4, has reached a much higher mark in the latter context. Indeed, its responses come quite close to perfectly demonstrating expert-level competence, with a few very notable exceptions and limitations. We briefly comment on the implications of this for the future of physics education and pedagogy. 

**Title:** Efficient Sampling of Stochastic Differential Equations with Positive  Semi-Definite Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17109

**Abstract:** This paper deals with the problem of efficient sampling from a stochastic differential equation, given the drift function and the diffusion matrix. The proposed approach leverages a recent model for probabilities \citep{rudi2021psd} (the positive semi-definite -- PSD model) from which it is possible to obtain independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) samples at precision $\varepsilon$ with a cost that is $m^2 d \log(1/\varepsilon)$ where $m$ is the dimension of the model, $d$ the dimension of the space. The proposed approach consists in: first, computing the PSD model that satisfies the Fokker-Planck equation (or its fractional variant) associated with the SDE, up to error $\varepsilon$, and then sampling from the resulting PSD model. Assuming some regularity of the Fokker-Planck solution (i.e. $\beta$-times differentiability plus some geometric condition on its zeros) We obtain an algorithm that: (a) in the preparatory phase obtains a PSD model with L2 distance $\varepsilon$ from the solution of the equation, with a model of dimension $m = \varepsilon^{-(d+1)/(\beta-2s)} (\log(1/\varepsilon))^{d+1}$ where $0<s\leq1$ is the fractional power to the Laplacian, and total computational complexity of $O(m^{3.5} \log(1/\varepsilon))$ and then (b) for Fokker-Planck equation, it is able to produce i.i.d.\ samples with error $\varepsilon$ in Wasserstein-1 distance, with a cost that is $O(d \varepsilon^{-2(d+1)/\beta-2} \log(1/\varepsilon)^{2d+3})$ per sample. This means that, if the probability associated with the SDE is somewhat regular, i.e. $\beta \geq 4d+2$, then the algorithm requires $O(\varepsilon^{-0.88} \log(1/\varepsilon)^{4.5d})$ in the preparatory phase, and $O(\varepsilon^{-1/2}\log(1/\varepsilon)^{2d+2})$ for each sample. Our results suggest that as the true solution gets smoother, we can circumvent the curse of dimensionality without requiring any sort of convexity. 

**Title:** Matrix diagonalization and singular value decomposition: Static SageMath  and dynamic ChatGPT juxtaposed  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17163

**Abstract:** We investigated some difficulties that students often face when studying linear algebra at the undergraduate level, and identified some common mistakes and difficulties they often encountered when dealing with topics that require algorithmic thinking skills such as matrix factorization. In particular, we focused on (orthogonal) diagonalization and singular value decomposition (SVD). We also offered the possibility of exploring these topics using SageMath, a Python-based free open software computer algebra system (CAS) that has been identified to be useful for assisting many students in the computational process even though its output is static by nature. We then explored dynamic ChatGPT by inquiring the chatbot about the topic, either by asking to provide an example or to solve a problem, that is by constructing an (orthogonal) diagonalization or SVD from a particular matrix. By consolidating essential concepts in linear algebra and improving computational skills through effective practice, mastering these topics would become easier and mistakes could be minimized. Static SageMath, in particular, is a great aid for calculation confirmation and handling tedious computations. Although dynamic ChatGPT is relatively unreliable for solving problems in linear algebra, the mistakes it produces could become a valuable tool for improving critical thinking skills. 

**Title:** HDR Imaging with Spatially Varying Signal-to-Noise Ratios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17253

**Abstract:** While today's high dynamic range (HDR) image fusion algorithms are capable of blending multiple exposures, the acquisition is often controlled so that the dynamic range within one exposure is narrow. For HDR imaging in photon-limited situations, the dynamic range can be enormous and the noise within one exposure is spatially varying. Existing image denoising algorithms and HDR fusion algorithms both fail to handle this situation, leading to severe limitations in low-light HDR imaging. This paper presents two contributions. Firstly, we identify the source of the problem. We find that the issue is associated with the co-existence of (1) spatially varying signal-to-noise ratio, especially the excessive noise due to very dark regions, and (2) a wide luminance range within each exposure. We show that while the issue can be handled by a bank of denoisers, the complexity is high. Secondly, we propose a new method called the spatially varying high dynamic range (SV-HDR) fusion network to simultaneously denoise and fuse images. We introduce a new exposure-shared block within our custom-designed multi-scale transformer framework. In a variety of testing conditions, the performance of the proposed SV-HDR is better than the existing methods. 

**Title:** Twin Brownian particle method for the study of Oberbeck-Boussinesq fluid  flows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17260

**Abstract:** We establish stochastic functional integral representations for solutions of Oberbeck-Boussinesq equations in the form of McKean-Vlasov-type mean field equations, which can be used to design numerical schemes for calculating solutions and for implementing Monte-Carlo simulations of Oberbeck-Boussinesq flows. Our approach is based on the duality of conditional laws for a class of diffusion processes associated with solenoidal vector fields, which allows us to obtain a novel integral representation theorem for solutions of some linear parabolic equations in terms of the Green function and the pinned measure of the associated diffusion. We demonstrate via numerical experiments the efficiency of the numerical schemes, which are capable of revealing numerically the details of Oberbeck-Boussinesq flows within their thin boundary layer, including B{\'e}nard's convection feature. 

**Title:** WavCaps: A ChatGPT-Assisted Weakly-Labelled Audio Captioning Dataset for  Audio-Language Multimodal Research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.17395

**Abstract:** The advancement of audio-language (AL) multimodal learning tasks has been significant in recent years. However, researchers face challenges due to the costly and time-consuming collection process of existing audio-language datasets, which are limited in size. To address this data scarcity issue, we introduce WavCaps, the first large-scale weakly-labelled audio captioning dataset, comprising approximately 400k audio clips with paired captions. We sourced audio clips and their raw descriptions from web sources and a sound event detection dataset. However, the online-harvested raw descriptions are highly noisy and unsuitable for direct use in tasks such as automated audio captioning. To overcome this issue, we propose a three-stage processing pipeline for filtering noisy data and generating high-quality captions, where ChatGPT, a large language model, is leveraged to filter and transform raw descriptions automatically. We conduct a comprehensive analysis of the characteristics of WavCaps dataset and evaluate it on multiple downstream audio-language multimodal learning tasks. The systems trained on WavCaps outperform previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) models by a significant margin. Our aspiration is for the WavCaps dataset we have proposed to facilitate research in audio-language multimodal learning and demonstrate the potential of utilizing ChatGPT to enhance academic research. Our dataset and codes are available at https://github.com/XinhaoMei/WavCaps. 

