**Title:** Generative AI Perceptions: A Survey to Measure the Perceptions of  Faculty, Staff, and Students on Generative AI Tools in Academia  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14415

**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a natural language processing tool that can engage in human-like conversations and generate coherent and contextually relevant responses to various prompts. ChatGPT is capable of understanding natural text that is input by a user and generating appropriate responses in various forms. This tool represents a major step in how humans are interacting with technology. This paper specifically focuses on how ChatGPT is revolutionizing the realm of engineering education and the relationship between technology, students, and faculty and staff. Because this tool is quickly changing and improving with the potential for even greater future capability, it is a critical time to collect pertinent data. A survey was created to measure the effects of ChatGPT on students, faculty, and staff. This survey is shared as a Texas A&M University technical report to allow other universities and entities to use this survey and measure the effects elsewhere. 

**Title:** Framing the News:From Human Perception to Large Language Model  Inferences  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14456

**Abstract:** Identifying the frames of news is important to understand the articles' vision, intention, message to be conveyed, and which aspects of the news are emphasized. Framing is a widely studied concept in journalism, and has emerged as a new topic in computing, with the potential to automate processes and facilitate the work of journalism professionals. In this paper, we study this issue with articles related to the Covid-19 anti-vaccine movement. First, to understand the perspectives used to treat this theme, we developed a protocol for human labeling of frames for 1786 headlines of No-Vax movement articles of European newspapers from 5 countries. Headlines are key units in the written press, and worth of analysis as many people only read headlines (or use them to guide their decision for further reading.) Second, considering advances in Natural Language Processing (NLP) with large language models, we investigated two approaches for frame inference of news headlines: first with a GPT-3.5 fine-tuning approach, and second with GPT-3.5 prompt-engineering. Our work contributes to the study and analysis of the performance that these models have to facilitate journalistic tasks like classification of frames, while understanding whether the models are able to replicate human perception in the identification of these frames. 

**Title:** Learning a Diffusion Prior for NeRFs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14473

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have emerged as a powerful neural 3D representation for objects and scenes derived from 2D data. Generating NeRFs, however, remains difficult in many scenarios. For instance, training a NeRF with only a small number of views as supervision remains challenging since it is an under-constrained problem. In such settings, it calls for some inductive prior to filter out bad local minima. One way to introduce such inductive priors is to learn a generative model for NeRFs modeling a certain class of scenes. In this paper, we propose to use a diffusion model to generate NeRFs encoded on a regularized grid. We show that our model can sample realistic NeRFs, while at the same time allowing conditional generations, given a certain observation as guidance. 

**Title:** ChatGPT as an Attack Tool: Stealthy Textual Backdoor Attack via Blackbox  Generative Model Trigger  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14475

**Abstract:** Textual backdoor attacks pose a practical threat to existing systems, as they can compromise the model by inserting imperceptible triggers into inputs and manipulating labels in the training dataset. With cutting-edge generative models such as GPT-4 pushing rewriting to extraordinary levels, such attacks are becoming even harder to detect. We conduct a comprehensive investigation of the role of black-box generative models as a backdoor attack tool, highlighting the importance of researching relative defense strategies. In this paper, we reveal that the proposed generative model-based attack, BGMAttack, could effectively deceive textual classifiers. Compared with the traditional attack methods, BGMAttack makes the backdoor trigger less conspicuous by leveraging state-of-the-art generative models. Our extensive evaluation of attack effectiveness across five datasets, complemented by three distinct human cognition assessments, reveals that Figure 4 achieves comparable attack performance while maintaining superior stealthiness relative to baseline methods. 

**Title:** pyBibX -- A Python Library for Bibliometric and Scientometric Analysis  Powered with Artificial Intelligence Tools  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14516

**Abstract:** Bibliometric and Scientometric analyses offer invaluable perspectives on the complex research terrain and collaborative dynamics spanning diverse academic disciplines. This paper presents pyBibX, a python library devised to conduct comprehensive bibliometric and scientometric analyses on raw data files sourced from Scopus, Web of Science, and PubMed, seamlessly integrating state of the art AI capabilities into its core functionality. The library executes a comprehensive EDA, presenting outcomes via visually appealing graphical illustrations. Network capabilities have been deftly integrated, encompassing Citation, Collaboration, and Similarity Analysis. Furthermore, the library incorporates AI capabilities, including Embedding vectors, Topic Modeling, Text Summarization, and other general Natural Language Processing tasks, employing models such as Sentence-BERT, BerTopic, BERT, chatGPT, and PEGASUS. As a demonstration, we have analyzed 184 documents associated with multiple-criteria decision analysis published between 1984 and 2023. The EDA emphasized a growing fascination with decision-making and fuzzy logic methodologies. Next, Network Analysis further accentuated the significance of central authors and intra-continental collaboration, identifying Canada and China as crucial collaboration hubs. Finally, AI Analysis distinguished two primary topics and chatGPT preeminence in Text Summarization. It also proved to be an indispensable instrument for interpreting results, as our library enables researchers to pose inquiries to chatGPT regarding bibliometric outcomes. Even so, data homogeneity remains a daunting challenge due to database inconsistencies. PyBibX is the first application integrating cutting-edge AI capabilities for analyzing scientific publications, enabling researchers to examine and interpret these outcomes more effectively. 

**Title:** It is all about where you start: Text-to-image generation with seed  selection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14530

**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models can synthesize a large variety of concepts in new compositions and scenarios. However, they still struggle with generating uncommon concepts, rare unusual combinations, or structured concepts like hand palms. Their limitation is partly due to the long-tail nature of their training data: web-crawled data sets are strongly unbalanced, causing models to under-represent concepts from the tail of the distribution. Here we characterize the effect of unbalanced training data on text-to-image models and offer a remedy. We show that rare concepts can be correctly generated by carefully selecting suitable generation seeds in the noise space, a technique that we call SeedSelect. SeedSelect is efficient and does not require retraining the diffusion model. We evaluate the benefit of SeedSelect on a series of problems. First, in few-shot semantic data augmentation, where we generate semantically correct images for few-shot and long-tail benchmarks. We show classification improvement on all classes, both from the head and tail of the training data of diffusion models. We further evaluate SeedSelect on correcting images of hands, a well-known pitfall of current diffusion models, and show that it improves hand generation substantially. 

**Title:** DIAMANT: Dual Image-Attention Map Encoders For Medical Image  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14571

**Abstract:** Although purely transformer-based architectures showed promising performance in many computer vision tasks, many hybrid models consisting of CNN and transformer blocks are introduced to fit more specialized tasks. Nevertheless, despite the performance gain of both pure and hybrid transformer-based architectures compared to CNNs in medical imaging segmentation, their high training cost and complexity make it challenging to use them in real scenarios. In this work, we propose simple architectures based on purely convolutional layers, and show that by just taking advantage of the attention map visualizations obtained from a self-supervised pretrained vision transformer network (e.g., DINO) one can outperform complex transformer-based networks with much less computation costs. The proposed architecture is composed of two encoder branches with the original image as input in one branch and the attention map visualizations of the same image from multiple self-attention heads from a pre-trained DINO model (as multiple channels) in the other branch. The results of our experiments on two publicly available medical imaging datasets show that the proposed pipeline outperforms U-Net and the state-of-the-art medical image segmentation models. 

**Title:** SceneGenie: Scene Graph Guided Diffusion Models for Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14573

**Abstract:** Text-conditioned image generation has made significant progress in recent years with generative adversarial networks and more recently, diffusion models. While diffusion models conditioned on text prompts have produced impressive and high-quality images, accurately representing complex text prompts such as the number of instances of a specific object remains challenging. 

**Title:** Local-Global Transformer Enhanced Unfolding Network for Pan-sharpening  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14612

**Abstract:** Pan-sharpening aims to increase the spatial resolution of the low-resolution multispectral (LrMS) image with the guidance of the corresponding panchromatic (PAN) image. Although deep learning (DL)-based pan-sharpening methods have achieved promising performance, most of them have a two-fold deficiency. For one thing, the universally adopted black box principle limits the model interpretability. For another thing, existing DL-based methods fail to efficiently capture local and global dependencies at the same time, inevitably limiting the overall performance. To address these mentioned issues, we first formulate the degradation process of the high-resolution multispectral (HrMS) image as a unified variational optimization problem, and alternately solve its data and prior subproblems by the designed iterative proximal gradient descent (PGD) algorithm. Moreover, we customize a Local-Global Transformer (LGT) to simultaneously model local and global dependencies, and further formulate an LGT-based prior module for image denoising. Besides the prior module, we also design a lightweight data module. Finally, by serially integrating the data and prior modules in each iterative stage, we unfold the iterative algorithm into a stage-wise unfolding network, Local-Global Transformer Enhanced Unfolding Network (LGTEUN), for the interpretable MS pan-sharpening. Comprehensive experimental results on three satellite data sets demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of LGTEUN compared with state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. The source code is available at https://github.com/lms-07/LGTEUN. 

**Title:** A positive feedback method based on F-measure value for Salient Object  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14619

**Abstract:** The majority of current salient object detection (SOD) models are focused on designing a series of decoders based on fully convolutional networks (FCNs) or Transformer architectures and integrating them in a skillful manner. These models have achieved remarkable high performance and made significant contributions to the development of SOD. Their primary research objective is to develop novel algorithms that can outperform state-of-the-art models, a task that is extremely difficult and time-consuming. In contrast, this paper proposes a positive feedback method based on F-measure value for SOD, aiming to improve the accuracy of saliency prediction using existing methods. Specifically, our proposed method takes an image to be detected and inputs it into several existing models to obtain their respective prediction maps. These prediction maps are then fed into our positive feedback method to generate the final prediction result, without the need for careful decoder design or model training. Moreover, our method is adaptive and can be implemented based on existing models without any restrictions. Experimental results on five publicly available datasets show that our proposed positive feedback method outperforms the latest 12 methods in five evaluation metrics for saliency map prediction. Additionally, we conducted a robustness experiment, which shows that when at least one good prediction result exists in the selected existing model, our proposed approach can ensure that the prediction result is not worse. Our approach achieves a prediction speed of 20 frames per second (FPS) when evaluated on a low configuration host and after removing the prediction time overhead of inserted models. These results highlight the effectiveness, efficiency, and robustness of our proposed approach for salient object detection. 

**Title:** MUDiff: Unified Diffusion for Complete Molecule Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14621

**Abstract:** We present a new model for generating molecular data by combining discrete and continuous diffusion processes. Our model generates a comprehensive representation of molecules, including atom features, 2D discrete molecule structures, and 3D continuous molecule coordinates. The use of diffusion processes allows for capturing the probabilistic nature of molecular processes and the ability to explore the effect of different factors on molecular structures and properties. Additionally, we propose a novel graph transformer architecture to denoise the diffusion process. The transformer is equivariant to Euclidean transformations, allowing it to learn invariant atom and edge representations while preserving the equivariance of atom coordinates. This transformer can be used to learn molecular representations robust to geometric transformations. We evaluate the performance of our model through experiments and comparisons with existing methods, showing its ability to generate more stable and valid molecules with good properties. Our model is a promising approach for designing molecules with desired properties and can be applied to a wide range of tasks in molecular modeling. 

**Title:** PreNAS: Preferred One-Shot Learning Towards Efficient Neural  Architecture Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14636

**Abstract:** The wide application of pre-trained models is driving the trend of once-for-all training in one-shot neural architecture search (NAS). However, training within a huge sample space damages the performance of individual subnets and requires much computation to search for an optimal model. In this paper, we present PreNAS, a search-free NAS approach that accentuates target models in one-shot training. Specifically, the sample space is dramatically reduced in advance by a zero-cost selector, and weight-sharing one-shot training is performed on the preferred architectures to alleviate update conflicts. Extensive experiments have demonstrated that PreNAS consistently outperforms state-of-the-art one-shot NAS competitors for both Vision Transformer and convolutional architectures, and importantly, enables instant specialization with zero search cost. The code will be released upon acceptance. 

**Title:** Towards Robust Text-Prompted Semantic Criterion for In-the-Wild Video  Quality Assessment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14672

**Abstract:** The proliferation of videos collected during in-the-wild natural settings has pushed the development of effective Video Quality Assessment (VQA) methodologies. Contemporary supervised opinion-driven VQA strategies predominantly hinge on training from expensive human annotations for quality scores, which limited the scale and distribution of VQA datasets and consequently led to unsatisfactory generalization capacity of methods driven by these data. On the other hand, although several handcrafted zero-shot quality indices do not require training from human opinions, they are unable to account for the semantics of videos, rendering them ineffective in comprehending complex authentic distortions (e.g., white balance, exposure) and assessing the quality of semantic content within videos. To address these challenges, we introduce the text-prompted Semantic Affinity Quality Index (SAQI) and its localized version (SAQI-Local) using Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) to ascertain the affinity between textual prompts and visual features, facilitating a comprehensive examination of semantic quality concerns without the reliance on human quality annotations. By amalgamating SAQI with existing low-level metrics, we propose the unified Blind Video Quality Index (BVQI) and its improved version, BVQI-Local, which demonstrates unprecedented performance, surpassing existing zero-shot indices by at least 24\% on all datasets. Moreover, we devise an efficient fine-tuning scheme for BVQI-Local that jointly optimizes text prompts and final fusion weights, resulting in state-of-the-art performance and superior generalization ability in comparison to prevalent opinion-driven VQA methods. We conduct comprehensive analyses to investigate different quality concerns of distinct indices, demonstrating the effectiveness and rationality of our design. 

**Title:** X-RLflow: Graph Reinforcement Learning for Neural Network Subgraphs  Transformation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14698

**Abstract:** Tensor graph superoptimisation systems perform a sequence of subgraph substitution to neural networks, to find the optimal computation graph structure. Such a graph transformation process naturally falls into the framework of sequential decision-making, and existing systems typically employ a greedy search approach, which cannot explore the whole search space as it cannot tolerate a temporary loss of performance. In this paper, we address the tensor graph superoptimisation problem by exploring an alternative search approach, reinforcement learning (RL). Our proposed approach, X-RLflow, can learn to perform neural network dataflow graph rewriting, which substitutes a subgraph one at a time. X-RLflow is based on a model-free RL agent that uses a graph neural network (GNN) to encode the target computation graph and outputs a transformed computation graph iteratively. We show that our approach can outperform state-of-the-art superoptimisation systems over a range of deep learning models and achieve by up to 40% on those that are based on transformer-style architectures. 

**Title:** Search-in-the-Chain: Towards the Accurate, Credible and Traceable  Content Generation for Complex Knowledge-intensive Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14732

**Abstract:** With the wide application of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, how to make the contents generated by LLM accurate and credible becomes very important, especially in complex knowledge-intensive tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel framework called Search-in-the-Chain (SearChain) to improve the accuracy, credibility and traceability of LLM-generated content for multi-hop question answering, which is a typical complex knowledge-intensive task. SearChain is a framework that deeply integrates LLM and information retrieval (IR). In SearChain, LLM constructs a chain-of-query, which is the decomposition of the multi-hop question. Each node of the chain is a query-answer pair consisting of an IR-oriented query and the answer generated by LLM for this query. IR verifies, completes, and traces the information of each node of the chain, so as to guide LLM to construct the correct chain-of-query, and finally answer the multi-hop question. SearChain makes LLM change from trying to give a answer to trying to construct the chain-of-query when faced with the multi-hop question, which can stimulate the knowledge-reasoning ability and provides the interface for IR to be deeply involved in reasoning process of LLM. IR interacts with each node of chain-of-query of LLM. It verifies the information of the node and provides the unknown knowledge to LLM, which ensures the accuracy of the whole chain in the process of LLM generating the answer. Besides, the contents returned by LLM to the user include not only the final answer but also the reasoning process for the question, that is, the chain-of-query and the supporting documents retrieved by IR for each node of the chain, which improves the credibility and traceability of the contents generated by LLM. Experimental results show SearChain outperforms related baselines on four multi-hop question-answering datasets. 

**Title:** FlowTransformer: A Transformer Framework for Flow-based Network  Intrusion Detection Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14746

**Abstract:** This paper presents the FlowTransformer framework, a novel approach for implementing transformer-based Network Intrusion Detection Systems (NIDSs). FlowTransformer leverages the strengths of transformer models in identifying the long-term behaviour and characteristics of networks, which are often overlooked by most existing NIDSs. By capturing these complex patterns in network traffic, FlowTransformer offers a flexible and efficient tool for researchers and practitioners in the cybersecurity community who are seeking to implement NIDSs using transformer-based models. FlowTransformer allows the direct substitution of various transformer components, including the input encoding, transformer, classification head, and the evaluation of these across any flow-based network dataset. To demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the FlowTransformer framework, we utilise it to provide an extensive evaluation of various common transformer architectures, such as GPT 2.0 and BERT, on three commonly used public NIDS benchmark datasets. We provide results for accuracy, model size and speed. A key finding of our evaluation is that the choice of classification head has the most significant impact on the model performance. Surprisingly, Global Average Pooling, which is commonly used in text classification, performs very poorly in the context of NIDS. In addition, we show that model size can be reduced by over 50\%, and inference and training times improved, with no loss of accuracy, by making specific choices of input encoding and classification head instead of other commonly used alternatives. 

**Title:** LostPaw: Finding Lost Pets using a Contrastive Learning-based  Transformer with Visual Input  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14765

**Abstract:** Losing pets can be highly distressing for pet owners, and finding a lost pet is often challenging and time-consuming. An artificial intelligence-based application can significantly improve the speed and accuracy of finding lost pets. In order to facilitate such an application, this study introduces a contrastive neural network model capable of accurately distinguishing between images of pets. The model was trained on a large dataset of dog images and evaluated through 3-fold cross-validation. Following 350 epochs of training, the model achieved a test accuracy of 90%. Furthermore, overfitting was avoided, as the test accuracy closely matched the training accuracy. Our findings suggest that contrastive neural network models hold promise as a tool for locating lost pets. This paper provides the foundation for a potential web application that allows users to upload images of their missing pets, receiving notifications when matching images are found in the application's image database. This would enable pet owners to quickly and accurately locate lost pets and reunite them with their families. 

**Title:** Dissecting Recall of Factual Associations in Auto-Regressive Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14767

**Abstract:** Transformer-based language models (LMs) are known to capture factual knowledge in their parameters. While previous work looked into where factual associations are stored, only little is known about how they are retrieved internally during inference. We investigate this question through the lens of information flow. Given a subject-relation query, we study how the model aggregates information about the subject and relation to predict the correct attribute. With interventions on attention edges, we first identify two critical points where information propagates to the prediction: one from the relation positions followed by another from the subject positions. Next, by analyzing the information at these points, we unveil a three-step internal mechanism for attribute extraction. First, the representation at the last-subject position goes through an enrichment process, driven by the early MLP sublayers, to encode many subject-related attributes. Second, information from the relation propagates to the prediction. Third, the prediction representation "queries" the enriched subject to extract the attribute. Perhaps surprisingly, this extraction is typically done via attention heads, which often encode subject-attribute mappings in their parameters. Overall, our findings introduce a comprehensive view of how factual associations are stored and extracted internally in LMs, facilitating future research on knowledge localization and editing. 

**Title:** Training and Evaluation of a Multilingual Tokenizer for GPT-SW3  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14780

**Abstract:** This paper provides a detailed discussion of the multilingual tokenizer used for GPT-SW3. It was trained on the Nordic Pile using the SentencePiece library and the BPE algorithm. We outline the tokenizer's most important features and share details on its learned vocabulary. In addition, we systematically analyze the properties and evaluate the performance of the tokenizer with regard to the different languages present in the data. 

**Title:** Are the Best Multilingual Document Embeddings simply Based on Sentence  Embeddings?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14796

**Abstract:** Dense vector representations for textual data are crucial in modern NLP. Word embeddings and sentence embeddings estimated from raw texts are key in achieving state-of-the-art results in various tasks requiring semantic understanding. However, obtaining embeddings at the document level is challenging due to computational requirements and lack of appropriate data. Instead, most approaches fall back on computing document embeddings based on sentence representations. Although there exist architectures and models to encode documents fully, they are in general limited to English and few other high-resourced languages. In this work, we provide a systematic comparison of methods to produce document-level representations from sentences based on LASER, LaBSE, and Sentence BERT pre-trained multilingual models. We compare input token number truncation, sentence averaging as well as some simple windowing and in some cases new augmented and learnable approaches, on 3 multi- and cross-lingual tasks in 8 languages belonging to 3 different language families. Our task-based extrinsic evaluations show that, independently of the language, a clever combination of sentence embeddings is usually better than encoding the full document as a single unit, even when this is possible. We demonstrate that while a simple sentence average results in a strong baseline for classification tasks, more complex combinations are necessary for semantic tasks. 

**Title:** ResiDual: Transformer with Dual Residual Connections  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14802

**Abstract:** Transformer networks have become the preferred architecture for many tasks due to their state-of-the-art performance. However, the optimal way to implement residual connections in Transformer, which are essential for effective training, is still debated. Two widely used variants are the Post-Layer-Normalization (Post-LN) and Pre-Layer-Normalization (Pre-LN) Transformers, which apply layer normalization after each residual block's output or before each residual block's input, respectively. While both variants enjoy their advantages, they also suffer from severe limitations: Post-LN causes gradient vanishing issue that hinders training deep Transformers, and Pre-LN causes representation collapse issue that limits model capacity. In this paper, we propose ResiDual, a novel Transformer architecture with Pre-Post-LN (PPLN), which fuses the connections in Post-LN and Pre-LN together and inherits their advantages while avoids their limitations. We conduct both theoretical analyses and empirical experiments to verify the effectiveness of ResiDual. Theoretically, we prove that ResiDual has a lower bound on the gradient to avoid the vanishing issue due to the residual connection from Pre-LN. Moreover, ResiDual also has diverse model representations to avoid the collapse issue due to the residual connection from Post-LN. Empirically, ResiDual outperforms both Post-LN and Pre-LN on several machine translation benchmarks across different network depths and data sizes. Thanks to the good theoretical and empirical performance, ResiDual Transformer can serve as a foundation architecture for different AI models (e.g., large language models). Our code is available at https://github.com/microsoft/ResiDual. 

**Title:** NeRF-LiDAR: Generating Realistic LiDAR Point Clouds with Neural Radiance  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14811

**Abstract:** Labeling LiDAR point clouds for training autonomous driving is extremely expensive and difficult. LiDAR simulation aims at generating realistic LiDAR data with labels for training and verifying self-driving algorithms more efficiently. Recently, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been proposed for novel view synthesis using implicit reconstruction of 3D scenes. Inspired by this, we present NeRF-LIDAR, a novel LiDAR simulation method that leverages real-world information to generate realistic LIDAR point clouds. Different from existing LiDAR simulators, we use real images and point cloud data collected by self-driving cars to learn the 3D scene representation, point cloud generation and label rendering. We verify the effectiveness of our NeRF-LiDAR by training different 3D segmentation models on the generated LiDAR point clouds. It reveals that the trained models are able to achieve similar accuracy when compared with the same model trained on the real LiDAR data. Besides, the generated data is capable of boosting the accuracy through pre-training which helps reduce the requirements of the real labeled data. 

**Title:** ChatGPT Evaluation on Sentence Level Relations: A Focus on Temporal,  Causal, and Discourse Relations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14827

**Abstract:** This paper aims to quantitatively evaluate the performance of ChatGPT, an interactive large language model, on inter-sentential relations such as temporal relations, causal relations, and discourse relations. Given ChatGPT's promising performance across various tasks, we conduct extensive evaluations on the whole test sets of 13 datasets, including temporal and causal relations, PDTB2.0-based and dialogue-based discourse relations, and downstream applications on discourse understanding. To achieve reliable results, we adopt three tailored prompt templates for each task, including the zero-shot prompt template, zero-shot prompt engineering (PE) template, and in-context learning (ICL) prompt template, to establish the initial baseline scores for all popular sentence-pair relation classification tasks for the first time. We find that ChatGPT exhibits strong performance in detecting and reasoning about causal relations, while it may not be proficient in identifying the temporal order between two events. It can recognize most discourse relations with existing explicit discourse connectives, but the implicit discourse relation still remains a challenging task. Meanwhile, ChatGPT performs poorly in the dialogue discourse parsing task that requires structural understanding in a dialogue before being aware of the discourse relation. 

**Title:** Sensitive Tuning of Large Scale CNNs for E2E Secure Prediction using  Homomorphic Encryption  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14836

**Abstract:** Privacy-preserving machine learning solutions have recently gained significant attention. One promising research trend is using Homomorphic Encryption (HE), a method for performing computation over encrypted data. One major challenge in this approach is training HE-friendly, encrypted or unencrypted, deep CNNs with decent accuracy. We propose a novel training method for HE-friendly models, and demonstrate it on fundamental and modern CNNs, such as ResNet and ConvNeXt. After training, we evaluate our models by running encrypted samples using HELayers SDK and proving that they yield the desired results. When running on a GPU over the ImageNet dataset, our ResNet-18/50/101 implementations take only 7, 31 and 57 minutes, respectively, which shows that this solution is practical. Furthermore, we present several insights on handling the activation functions and skip-connections under HE. Finally, we demonstrate in an unprecedented way how to perform secure zero-shot prediction using a CLIP model that we adapted to be HE-friendly. 

**Title:** Using Large Language Models for Interpreting Autonomous Robots Behaviors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14844

**Abstract:** The deployment of autonomous robots in various domains has raised significant concerns about their trustworthiness and accountability. This study explores the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) in analyzing ROS 2 logs generated by autonomous robots and proposes a framework for log analysis that categorizes log files into different aspects. The study evaluates the performance of three different language models in answering questions related to StartUp, Warning, and PDDL logs. The results suggest that GPT 4, a transformer-based model, outperforms other models, however, their verbosity is not enough to answer why or how questions for all kinds of actors involved in the interaction. 

**Title:** MASK-CNN-Transformer For Real-Time Multi-Label Weather Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14857

**Abstract:** Weather recognition is an essential support for many practical life applications, including traffic safety, environment, and meteorology. However, many existing related works cannot comprehensively describe weather conditions due to their complex co-occurrence dependencies. This paper proposes a novel multi-label weather recognition model considering these dependencies. The proposed model called MASK-Convolutional Neural Network-Transformer (MASK-CT) is based on the Transformer, the convolutional process, and the MASK mechanism. The model employs multiple convolutional layers to extract features from weather images and a Transformer encoder to calculate the probability of each weather condition based on the extracted features. To improve the generalization ability of MASK-CT, a MASK mechanism is used during the training phase. The effect of the MASK mechanism is explored and discussed. The Mask mechanism randomly withholds some information from one-pair training instances (one image and its corresponding label). There are two types of MASK methods. Specifically, MASK-I is designed and deployed on the image before feeding it into the weather feature extractor and MASK-II is applied to the image label. The Transformer encoder is then utilized on the randomly masked image features and labels. The experimental results from various real-world weather recognition datasets demonstrate that the proposed MASK-CT model outperforms state-of-the-art methods. Furthermore, the high-speed dynamic real-time weather recognition capability of the MASK-CT is evaluated. 

**Title:** Information Redundancy and Biases in Public Document Information  Extraction Benchmarks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14936

**Abstract:** Advances in the Visually-rich Document Understanding (VrDU) field and particularly the Key-Information Extraction (KIE) task are marked with the emergence of efficient Transformer-based approaches such as the LayoutLM models. Despite the good performance of KIE models when fine-tuned on public benchmarks, they still struggle to generalize on complex real-life use-cases lacking sufficient document annotations. Our research highlighted that KIE standard benchmarks such as SROIE and FUNSD contain significant similarity between training and testing documents and can be adjusted to better evaluate the generalization of models. In this work, we designed experiments to quantify the information redundancy in public benchmarks, revealing a 75% template replication in SROIE official test set and 16% in FUNSD. We also proposed resampling strategies to provide benchmarks more representative of the generalization ability of models. We showed that models not suited for document analysis struggle on the adjusted splits dropping on average 10,5% F1 score on SROIE and 3.5% on FUNSD compared to multi-modal models dropping only 7,5% F1 on SROIE and 0.5% F1 on FUNSD. 

**Title:** ChatGPT -- a Blessing or a Curse for Undergraduate Computer Science  Students and Instructors?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14993

**Abstract:** ChatGPT is an AI language model developed by OpenAI that can understand and generate human-like text. It can be used for a variety of use cases such as language generation, question answering, text summarization, chatbot development, language translation, sentiment analysis, content creation, personalization, text completion, and storytelling. While ChatGPT has garnered significant positive attention, it has also generated a sense of apprehension and uncertainty in academic circles. There is concern that students may leverage ChatGPT to complete take-home assignments and exams and obtain favorable grades without genuinely acquiring knowledge. This paper adopts a quantitative approach to demonstrate ChatGPT's high degree of unreliability in answering a diverse range of questions pertaining to topics in undergraduate computer science. Our analysis shows that students may risk self-sabotage by blindly depending on ChatGPT to complete assignments and exams. We build upon this analysis to provide constructive recommendations to both students and instructors. 

**Title:** Towards Automated Circuit Discovery for Mechanistic Interpretability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14997

**Abstract:** Recent work in mechanistic interpretability has reverse-engineered nontrivial behaviors of transformer models. These contributions required considerable effort and researcher intuition, which makes it difficult to apply the same methods to understand the complex behavior that current models display. At their core however, the workflow for these discoveries is surprisingly similar. Researchers create a data set and metric that elicit the desired model behavior, subdivide the network into appropriate abstract units, replace activations of those units to identify which are involved in the behavior, and then interpret the functions that these units implement. By varying the data set, metric, and units under investigation, researchers can understand the functionality of each neural network region and the circuits they compose. This work proposes a novel algorithm, Automatic Circuit DisCovery (ACDC), to automate the identification of the important units in the network. Given a model's computational graph, ACDC finds subgraphs that explain a behavior of the model. ACDC was able to reproduce a previously identified circuit for Python docstrings in a small transformer, identifying 6/7 important attention heads that compose up to 3 layers deep, while including 91% fewer the connections. 

**Title:** Are Emergent Abilities of Large Language Models a Mirage?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.15004

**Abstract:** Recent work claims that large language models display emergent abilities, abilities not present in smaller-scale models that are present in larger-scale models. What makes emergent abilities intriguing is two-fold: their sharpness, transitioning seemingly instantaneously from not present to present, and their unpredictability, appearing at seemingly unforeseeable model scales. Here, we present an alternative explanation for emergent abilities: that for a particular task and model family, when analyzing fixed model outputs, one can choose a metric which leads to the inference of an emergent ability or another metric which does not. Thus, our alternative suggests that existing claims of emergent abilities are creations of the researcher's analyses, not fundamental changes in model behavior on specific tasks with scale. We present our explanation in a simple mathematical model, then test it in three complementary ways: we (1) make, test and confirm three predictions on the effect of metric choice using the InstructGPT/GPT-3 family on tasks with claimed emergent abilities, (2) make, test and confirm two predictions about metric choices in a meta-analysis of emergent abilities on BIG-Bench; and (3) show how similar metric decisions suggest apparent emergent abilities on vision tasks in diverse deep network architectures (convolutional, autoencoder, transformers). In all three analyses, we find strong supporting evidence that emergent abilities may not be a fundamental property of scaling AI models. 

**Title:** LLaMA-Adapter V2: Parameter-Efficient Visual Instruction Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.15010

**Abstract:** How to efficiently transform large language models (LLMs) into instruction followers is recently a popular research direction, while training LLM for multi-modal reasoning remains less explored. Although the recent LLaMA-Adapter demonstrates the potential to handle visual inputs with LLMs, it still cannot generalize well to open-ended visual instructions and lags behind GPT-4. In this paper, we present LLaMA-Adapter V2, a parameter-efficient visual instruction model. Specifically, we first augment LLaMA-Adapter by unlocking more learnable parameters (e.g., norm, bias and scale), which distribute the instruction-following ability across the entire LLaMA model besides adapters. Secondly, we propose an early fusion strategy to feed visual tokens only into the early LLM layers, contributing to better visual knowledge incorporation. Thirdly, a joint training paradigm of image-text pairs and instruction-following data is introduced by optimizing disjoint groups of learnable parameters. This strategy effectively alleviates the interference between the two tasks of image-text alignment and instruction following and achieves strong multi-modal reasoning with only a small-scale image-text and instruction dataset. During inference, we incorporate additional expert models (e.g. captioning/OCR systems) into LLaMA-Adapter to further enhance its image understanding capability without incurring training costs. Compared to the original LLaMA-Adapter, our LLaMA-Adapter V2 can perform open-ended multi-modal instructions by merely introducing 14M parameters over LLaMA. The newly designed framework also exhibits stronger language-only instruction-following capabilities and even excels in chat interactions. Our code and models are available at https://github.com/ZrrSkywalker/LLaMA-Adapter. 

**Title:** Transformer-based interpretable multi-modal data fusion for skin lesion  classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14505

**Abstract:** A lot of deep learning (DL) research these days is mainly focused on improving on quantitative metrics regardless of other factors. In human centered applications, like skin lesion classification in dermatology, DL-driven clinical decision support systems are still in their infancy due to the limited transparency of their decision-making process. Moreover, the lack of procedures that can explain the behavior of trained DL algorithms leads to almost no trust from the clinical physicians. To diagnose skin lesions, dermatologists rely on both visual assessment of the disease and the data gathered from the anamnesis of the patient. Data-driven algorithms dealing with multi-modal data are limited by the separation of feature-level and decision-level fusion procedures required by convolutional architectures. To address this issue, we enable single-stage multi-modal data fusion via the attention mechanism of transformer-based architectures to aid in the diagnosis of skin diseases. Our method beats other state-of-the-art single- and multi-modal DL architectures in both image rich and patient-data rich environments. Additionally, the choice of the architecture enables native interpretability support for the classification task both in image and metadata domain with no additional modifications necessary. 

**Title:** 3D Brainformer: 3D Fusion Transformer for Brain Tumor Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14508

**Abstract:** Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is critically important for brain mapping in both scientific research and clinical studies. Precise segmentation of brain tumors facilitates clinical diagnosis, evaluations, and surgical planning. Deep learning has recently emerged to improve brain tumor segmentation and achieved impressive results. Convolutional architectures are widely used to implement those neural networks. By the nature of limited receptive fields, however, those architectures are subject to representing long-range spatial dependencies of the voxel intensities in MRI images. Transformers have been leveraged recently to address the above limitations of convolutional networks. Unfortunately, the majority of current Transformers-based methods in segmentation are performed with 2D MRI slices, instead of 3D volumes. Moreover, it is difficult to incorporate the structures between layers because each head is calculated independently in the Multi-Head Self-Attention mechanism (MHSA). In this work, we proposed a 3D Transformer-based segmentation approach. We developed a Fusion-Head Self-Attention mechanism (FHSA) to combine each attention head through attention logic and weight mapping, for the exploration of the long-range spatial dependencies in 3D MRI images. We implemented a plug-and-play self-attention module, named the Infinite Deformable Fusion Transformer Module (IDFTM), to extract features on any deformable feature maps. We applied our approach to the task of brain tumor segmentation, and assessed it on the public BRATS datasets. The experimental results demonstrated that our proposed approach achieved superior performance, in comparison to several state-of-the-art segmentation methods. 

**Title:** ScatterFormer: Locally-Invariant Scattering Transformer for  Patient-Independent Multispectral Detection of Epileptiform Discharges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14919

**Abstract:** Patient-independent detection of epileptic activities based on visual spectral representation of continuous EEG (cEEG) has been widely used for diagnosing epilepsy. However, precise detection remains a considerable challenge due to subtle variabilities across subjects, channels and time points. Thus, capturing fine-grained, discriminative features of EEG patterns, which is associated with high-frequency textural information, is yet to be resolved. In this work, we propose Scattering Transformer (ScatterFormer), an invariant scattering transform-based hierarchical Transformer that specifically pays attention to subtle features. In particular, the disentangled frequency-aware attention (FAA) enables the Transformer to capture clinically informative high-frequency components, offering a novel clinical explainability based on visual encoding of multichannel EEG signals. Evaluations on two distinct tasks of epileptiform detection demonstrate the effectiveness our method. Our proposed model achieves median AUCROC and accuracy of 98.14%, 96.39% in patients with Rolandic epilepsy. On a neonatal seizure detection benchmark, it outperforms the state-of-the-art by 9% in terms of average AUCROC. 

**Title:** The Exponential Capacity of Dense Associative Memories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.14964

**Abstract:** Recent generalizations of the Hopfield model of associative memories are able to store a number $P$ of random patterns that grows exponentially with the number $N$ of neurons, $P=\exp(\alpha N)$. Besides the huge storage capacity, another interesting feature of these networks is their connection to the attention mechanism which is part of the Transformer architectures widely applied in deep learning. In this work, we consider a generic family of pattern ensembles, and thanks to the statistical mechanics analysis of an auxiliary Random Energy Model, we are able to provide exact asymptotic thresholds for the retrieval of a typical pattern, $\alpha_1$, and lower bounds for the maximum of the load $\alpha$ for which all patterns can be retrieved, $\alpha_c$. Additionally, we characterize the size of the basins of attractions. We discuss in detail the cases of Gaussian and spherical patterns, and show that they display rich and qualitatively different phase diagrams. 

