**ID:** 1  
**Title:** A transformer-based method for zero and few-shot biomedical named entity  recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.04928  
**Abstract:** Supervised named entity recognition (NER) in the biomedical domain is dependent on large sets of annotated texts with the given named entities, whose creation can be time-consuming and expensive. Furthermore, the extraction of new entities often requires conducting additional annotation tasks and retraining the model. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a transformer-based method for zero- and few-shot NER in the biomedical domain. The method is based on transforming the task of multi-class token classification into binary token classification (token contains the searched entity or does not contain the searched entity) and pre-training on a larger amount of datasets and biomedical entities, from where the method can learn semantic relations between the given and potential classes. We have achieved average F1 scores of 35.44% for zero-shot NER, 50.10% for one-shot NER, 69.94% for 10-shot NER, and 79.51% for 100-shot NER on 9 diverse evaluated biomedical entities with PubMedBERT fine-tuned model. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method for recognizing new entities with limited examples, with comparable or better results from the state-of-the-art zero- and few-shot NER methods. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Joint Moment Retrieval and Highlight Detection Via Natural Language  Queries  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.04961  
**Abstract:** Video summarization has become an increasingly important task in the field of computer vision due to the vast amount of video content available on the internet. In this project, we propose a new method for natural language query based joint video summarization and highlight detection using multi-modal transformers. This approach will use both visual and audio cues to match a user's natural language query to retrieve the most relevant and interesting moments from a video. Our approach employs multiple recent techniques used in Vision Transformers (ViTs) to create a transformer-like encoder-decoder model. We evaluated our approach on multiple datasets such as YouTube Highlights and TVSum to demonstrate the flexibility of our proposed method. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** NerfAcc: Efficient Sampling Accelerates NeRFs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.04966  
**Abstract:** Optimizing and rendering Neural Radiance Fields is computationally expensive due to the vast number of samples required by volume rendering. Recent works have included alternative sampling approaches to help accelerate their methods, however, they are often not the focus of the work. In this paper, we investigate and compare multiple sampling approaches and demonstrate that improved sampling is generally applicable across NeRF variants under an unified concept of transmittance estimator. To facilitate future experiments, we develop NerfAcc, a Python toolbox that provides flexible APIs for incorporating advanced sampling methods into NeRF related methods. We demonstrate its flexibility by showing that it can reduce the training time of several recent NeRF methods by 1.5x to 20x with minimal modifications to the existing codebase. Additionally, highly customized NeRFs, such as Instant-NGP, can be implemented in native PyTorch using NerfAcc. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** NeuroComparatives: Neuro-Symbolic Distillation of Comparative Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.04978  
**Abstract:** Comparative knowledge (e.g., steel is stronger and heavier than styrofoam) is an essential component of our world knowledge, yet understudied in prior literature. In this paper, we study the task of comparative knowledge acquisition, motivated by the dramatic improvements in the capabilities of extreme-scale language models like GPT-3, which have fueled efforts towards harvesting their knowledge into knowledge bases. However, access to inference API for such models is limited, thereby restricting the scope and the diversity of the knowledge acquisition. We thus ask a seemingly implausible question: whether more accessible, yet considerably smaller and weaker models such as GPT-2, can be utilized to acquire comparative knowledge, such that the resulting quality is on par with their large-scale counterparts? 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Knowledge Graph Guided Semantic Evaluation of Language Models For User  Trust  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.04989  
**Abstract:** A fundamental question in natural language processing is - what kind of language structure and semantics is the language model capturing? Graph formats such as knowledge graphs are easy to evaluate as they explicitly express language semantics and structure. This study evaluates the semantics encoded in the self-attention transformers by leveraging explicit knowledge graph structures. We propose novel metrics to measure the reconstruction error when providing graph path sequences from a knowledge graph and trying to reproduce/reconstruct the same from the outputs of the self-attention transformer models. The opacity of language models has an immense bearing on societal issues of trust and explainable decision outcomes. Our findings suggest that language models are models of stochastic control processes for plausible language pattern generation. However, they do not ascribe object and concept-level meaning and semantics to the learned stochastic patterns such as those described in knowledge graphs. Furthermore, to enable robust evaluation of concept understanding by language models, we construct and make public an augmented language understanding benchmark built on the General Language Understanding Evaluation (GLUE) benchmark. This has significant application-level user trust implications as stochastic patterns without a strong sense of meaning cannot be trusted in high-stakes applications. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** GersteinLab at MEDIQA-Chat 2023: Clinical Note Summarization from  Doctor-Patient Conversations through Fine-tuning and In-context Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05001  
**Abstract:** This paper presents our contribution to the MEDIQA-2023 Dialogue2Note shared task, encompassing both subtask A and subtask B. We approach the task as a dialogue summarization problem and implement two distinct pipelines: (a) a fine-tuning of a pre-trained dialogue summarization model and GPT-3, and (b) few-shot in-context learning (ICL) using a large language model, GPT-4. Both methods achieve excellent results in terms of ROUGE-1 F1, BERTScore F1 (deberta-xlarge-mnli), and BLEURT, with scores of 0.4011, 0.7058, and 0.5421, respectively. Additionally, we predict the associated section headers using RoBERTa and SciBERT based classification models. Our team ranked fourth among all teams, while each team is allowed to submit three runs as part of their submission. We also utilize expert annotations to demonstrate that the notes generated through the ICL GPT-4 are better than all other baselines. The code for our submission is available. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Revisiting Relation Extraction in the era of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05003  
**Abstract:** Relation extraction (RE) is the core NLP task of inferring semantic relationships between entities from text. Standard supervised RE techniques entail training modules to tag tokens comprising entity spans and then predict the relationship between them. Recent work has instead treated the problem as a \emph{sequence-to-sequence} task, linearizing relations between entities as target strings to be generated conditioned on the input. Here we push the limits of this approach, using larger language models (GPT-3 and Flan-T5 large) than considered in prior work and evaluating their performance on standard RE tasks under varying levels of supervision. We address issues inherent to evaluating generative approaches to RE by doing human evaluations, in lieu of relying on exact matching. Under this refined evaluation, we find that: (1) Few-shot prompting with GPT-3 achieves near SOTA performance, i.e., roughly equivalent to existing fully supervised models; (2) Flan-T5 is not as capable in the few-shot setting, but supervising and fine-tuning it with Chain-of-Thought (CoT) style explanations (generated via GPT-3) yields SOTA results. We release this model as a new baseline for RE tasks. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Coherent Wave Dynamics and Language Generation of a Generative  Pre-trained Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05061  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as the Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT), have achieved tremendous success in various language tasks, but their emergent abilities have also raised many questions, concerns, and challenges that need to be addressed. To gain a better understanding of the models' inner mechanisms, we analyze the hidden state and channel wave dynamics in a small GPT, focusing on the coherence of wave patterns in terms of cross-channel correlation and individual auto-correlation. Our findings suggest that wave dynamics offer consistent and repeatable intrinsic oscillation modes, along with context-aware plasticity and expressiveness in language generation. By analyzing wave patterns, coherence, and clustering, we provide a systematic way to identify and interpret the functionality of the hidden state channels, paving the way to understand and control higher-level language pattern formation. In addition, we investigate the Poisson statistics of spelling errors in text sequence generation across various levels of model training and observe a phase-transition-like process. As coherence builds up, there is a competition between the generation of correct and misspelled words. However, once the model is adequately trained and significant coherence has emerged, the coherent process becomes strong enough to effectively suppress spelling errors, preventing the cascade amplification of defects. The distribution of correct spellings transitions from Poissonian to Sub-Poissonian, while the distribution of misspellings shows the opposite trend. By leveraging concepts and techniques from quantum physics, we gain novel insights into the dynamics of the small GPT. This approach can be extended to larger language models that exhibit more complex coherent language patterns, opening up opportunities to interpret their emergent capabilities and develop more specialized models. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Recommender Systems with Generative Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05065  
**Abstract:** Modern recommender systems leverage large-scale retrieval models consisting of two stages: training a dual-encoder model to embed queries and candidates in the same space, followed by an Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) search to select top candidates given a query's embedding. In this paper, we propose a new single-stage paradigm: a generative retrieval model which autoregressively decodes the identifiers for the target candidates in one phase. To do this, instead of assigning randomly generated atomic IDs to each item, we generate Semantic IDs: a semantically meaningful tuple of codewords for each item that serves as its unique identifier. We use a hierarchical method called RQ-VAE to generate these codewords. Once we have the Semantic IDs for all the items, a Transformer based sequence-to-sequence model is trained to predict the Semantic ID of the next item. Since this model predicts the tuple of codewords identifying the next item directly in an autoregressive manner, it can be considered a generative retrieval model. We show that our recommender system trained in this new paradigm improves the results achieved by current SOTA models on the Amazon dataset. Moreover, we demonstrate that the sequence-to-sequence model coupled with hierarchical Semantic IDs offers better generalization and hence improves retrieval of cold-start items for recommendations. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Atmospheric Turbulence Correction via Variational Deep Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05077  
**Abstract:** Atmospheric Turbulence (AT) correction is a challenging restoration task as it consists of two distortions: geometric distortion and spatially variant blur. Diffusion models have shown impressive accomplishments in photo-realistic image synthesis and beyond. In this paper, we propose a novel deep conditional diffusion model under a variational inference framework to solve the AT correction problem. We use this framework to improve performance by learning latent prior information from the input and degradation processes. We use the learned information to further condition the diffusion model. Experiments are conducted in a comprehensive synthetic AT dataset. We show that the proposed framework achieves good quantitative and qualitative results. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Less is More: Removing Text-regions Improves CLIP Training Efficiency  and Robustness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05095  
**Abstract:** The CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training) model and its variants are becoming the de facto backbone in many applications. However, training a CLIP model from hundreds of millions of image-text pairs can be prohibitively expensive. Furthermore, the conventional CLIP model doesn't differentiate between the visual semantics and meaning of text regions embedded in images. This can lead to non-robustness when the text in the embedded region doesn't match the image's visual appearance. In this paper, we discuss two effective approaches to improve the efficiency and robustness of CLIP training: (1) augmenting the training dataset while maintaining the same number of optimization steps, and (2) filtering out samples that contain text regions in the image. By doing so, we significantly improve the classification and retrieval accuracy on public benchmarks like ImageNet and CoCo. Filtering out images with text regions also protects the model from typographic attacks. To verify this, we build a new dataset named ImageNet with Adversarial Text Regions (ImageNet-Attr). Our filter-based CLIP model demonstrates a top-1 accuracy of 68.78\%, outperforming previous models whose accuracy was all below 50\%. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Modeling Viral Information Spreading via Directed Acyclic Graph  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05107  
**Abstract:** Viral information like rumors or fake news is spread over a communication network like a virus infection in a unidirectional manner: entity $i$ conveys information to a neighbor $j$, resulting in two equally informed (infected) parties. Existing graph diffusion works focus only on bidirectional diffusion on an undirected graph. Instead, we propose a new directed acyclic graph (DAG) diffusion model to estimate the probability $x_i(t)$ of node $i$'s infection at time $t$ given a source node $s$, where $x_i(\infty)~=~1$. Specifically, given an undirected positive graph modeling node-to-node communication, we first compute its graph embedding: a latent coordinate for each node in an assumed low-dimensional manifold space from extreme eigenvectors via LOBPCG. Next, we construct a DAG based on Euclidean distances between latent coordinates. Spectrally, we prove that the asymmetric DAG Laplacian matrix contains real non-negative eigenvalues, and that the DAG diffusion converges to the all-infection vector $\x(\infty) = \1$ as $t \rightarrow \infty$. Simulation experiments show that our proposed DAG diffusion accurately models viral information spreading over a variety of graph structures at different time instants. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Generating Phishing Attacks using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05133  
**Abstract:** The ability of ChatGPT to generate human-like responses and understand context has made it a popular tool for conversational agents, content creation, data analysis, and research and innovation. However, its effectiveness and ease of accessibility makes it a prime target for generating malicious content, such as phishing attacks, that can put users at risk. In this work, we identify several malicious prompts that can be provided to ChatGPT to generate functional phishing websites. Through an iterative approach, we find that these phishing websites can be made to imitate popular brands and emulate several evasive tactics that have been known to avoid detection by anti-phishing entities. These attacks can be generated using vanilla ChatGPT without the need of any prior adversarial exploits (jailbreaking). 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Adapt and Align to Improve Zero-Shot Sketch-Based Image Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05144  
**Abstract:** Zero-shot sketch-based image retrieval (ZS-SBIR) is challenging due to the cross-domain nature of sketches and photos, as well as the semantic gap between seen and unseen image distributions. Previous methods fine-tune pre-trained models with various side information and learning strategies to learn a compact feature space that (\romannumeral1) is shared between the sketch and photo domains and (\romannumeral2) bridges seen and unseen classes. However, these efforts are inadequate in adapting domains and transferring knowledge from seen to unseen classes. In this paper, we present an effective \emph{``Adapt and Align''} approach to address the key challenges. Specifically, we insert simple and lightweight domain adapters to learn new abstract concepts of the sketch domain and improve cross-domain representation capabilities. Inspired by recent advances in image-text foundation models (\textit{e.g.}, CLIP) on zero-shot scenarios, we explicitly align the learned image embedding with a more semantic text embedding to achieve the desired knowledge transfer from seen to unseen classes. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets and two popular backbones demonstrate the superiority of our method in terms of retrieval accuracy and flexibility. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Who is Speaking Actually? Robust and Versatile Speaker Traceability for  Voice Conversion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05152  
**Abstract:** Voice conversion (VC), as a voice style transfer technology, is becoming increasingly prevalent while raising serious concerns about its illegal use. Proactively tracing the origins of VC-generated speeches, i.e., speaker traceability, can prevent the misuse of VC, but unfortunately has not been extensively studied. In this paper, we are the first to investigate the speaker traceability for VC and propose a traceable VC framework named VoxTracer. Our VoxTracer is similar to but beyond the paradigm of audio watermarking. We first use unique speaker embedding to represent speaker identity. Then we design a VAE-Glow structure, in which the hiding process imperceptibly integrates the source speaker identity into the VC, and the tracing process accurately recovers the source speaker identity and even the source speech in spite of severe speech quality degradation. To address the speech mismatch between the hiding and tracing processes affected by different distortions, we also adopt an asynchronous training strategy to optimize the VAE-Glow models. The VoxTracer is versatile enough to be applied to arbitrary VC methods and popular audio coding standards. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the VoxTracer achieves not only high imperceptibility in hiding, but also nearly 100% tracing accuracy against various types of audio lossy compressions (AAC, MP3, Opus and SILK) with a broad range of bitrates (16 kbps - 128 kbps) even in a very short time duration (0.74s). Our speech demo is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/w/DEMOofVoxTracer. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** FrugalGPT: How to Use Large Language Models While Reducing Cost and  Improving Performance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05176  
**Abstract:** There is a rapidly growing number of large language models (LLMs) that users can query for a fee. We review the cost associated with querying popular LLM APIs, e.g. GPT-4, ChatGPT, J1-Jumbo, and find that these models have heterogeneous pricing structures, with fees that can differ by two orders of magnitude. In particular, using LLMs on large collections of queries and text can be expensive. Motivated by this, we outline and discuss three types of strategies that users can exploit to reduce the inference cost associated with using LLMs: 1) prompt adaptation, 2) LLM approximation, and 3) LLM cascade. As an example, we propose FrugalGPT, a simple yet flexible instantiation of LLM cascade which learns which combinations of LLMs to use for different queries in order to reduce cost and improve accuracy. Our experiments show that FrugalGPT can match the performance of the best individual LLM (e.g. GPT-4) with up to 98% cost reduction or improve the accuracy over GPT-4 by 4% with the same cost. The ideas and findings presented here lay a foundation for using LLMs sustainably and efficiently. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Hybrid Transformer and CNN Attention Network for Stereo Image  Super-resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05177  
**Abstract:** Multi-stage strategies are frequently employed in image restoration tasks. While transformer-based methods have exhibited high efficiency in single-image super-resolution tasks, they have not yet shown significant advantages over CNN-based methods in stereo super-resolution tasks. This can be attributed to two key factors: first, current single-image super-resolution transformers are unable to leverage the complementary stereo information during the process; second, the performance of transformers is typically reliant on sufficient data, which is absent in common stereo-image super-resolution algorithms. To address these issues, we propose a Hybrid Transformer and CNN Attention Network (HTCAN), which utilizes a transformer-based network for single-image enhancement and a CNN-based network for stereo information fusion. Furthermore, we employ a multi-patch training strategy and larger window sizes to activate more input pixels for super-resolution. We also revisit other advanced techniques, such as data augmentation, data ensemble, and model ensemble to reduce overfitting and data bias. Finally, our approach achieved a score of 23.90dB and emerged as the winner in Track 1 of the NTIRE 2023 Stereo Image Super-Resolution Challenge. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Simplicial Hopfield networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05179  
**Abstract:** Hopfield networks are artificial neural networks which store memory patterns on the states of their neurons by choosing recurrent connection weights and update rules such that the energy landscape of the network forms attractors around the memories. How many stable, sufficiently-attracting memory patterns can we store in such a network using $N$ neurons? The answer depends on the choice of weights and update rule. Inspired by setwise connectivity in biology, we extend Hopfield networks by adding setwise connections and embedding these connections in a simplicial complex. Simplicial complexes are higher dimensional analogues of graphs which naturally represent collections of pairwise and setwise relationships. We show that our simplicial Hopfield networks increase memory storage capacity. Surprisingly, even when connections are limited to a small random subset of equivalent size to an all-pairwise network, our networks still outperform their pairwise counterparts. Such scenarios include non-trivial simplicial topology. We also test analogous modern continuous Hopfield networks, offering a potentially promising avenue for improving the attention mechanism in Transformer models. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** MoT: Pre-thinking and Recalling Enable ChatGPT to Self-Improve with  Memory-of-Thoughts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05181  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models have shown impressive abilities on various tasks. However, fundamentally improving them depends on high-quality datasets or computationally expensive fine-tuning. On the contrary, human can easily improve themselves by thinking and memory, without external resources. In this paper, we propose a framework, MoT, to let the LLM self-improve through Memory of Thoughts, without annotated datasets and parameter updates. Specifically, the framework is divided into two stages: 1. before the test stage, we let the LLM pre-think on the unlabeled dataset and save the high-confidence thoughts as external memory; 2. during inference, given a test question, we let the LLM recall relevant memory to help itself reason and answer it. Experimental results show that the proposed framework can help ChatGPT significantly improve its abilities in math reasoning, commonsense reasoning, factual reasoning and natural language inference. Further analyses show that each component contributes critically to the improvements. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** SUR-adapter: Enhancing Text-to-Image Pre-trained Diffusion Models with  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05189  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models, which have emerged to become popular text-to-image generation models, can produce high-quality and content-rich images guided by textual prompts. However, there are limitations to semantic understanding and commonsense reasoning in existing models when the input prompts are concise narrative, resulting in low-quality image generation. To improve the capacities for narrative prompts, we propose a simple-yet-effective parameter-efficient fine-tuning approach called the Semantic Understanding and Reasoning adapter (SUR-adapter) for pre-trained diffusion models. To reach this goal, we first collect and annotate a new dataset SURD which consists of more than 57,000 semantically corrected multi-modal samples. Each sample contains a simple narrative prompt, a complex keyword-based prompt, and a high-quality image. Then, we align the semantic representation of narrative prompts to the complex prompts and transfer knowledge of large language models (LLMs) to our SUR-adapter via knowledge distillation so that it can acquire the powerful semantic understanding and reasoning capabilities to build a high-quality textual semantic representation for text-to-image generation. We conduct experiments by integrating multiple LLMs and popular pre-trained diffusion models to show the effectiveness of our approach in enabling diffusion models to understand and reason concise natural language without image quality degradation. Our approach can make text-to-image diffusion models easier to use with better user experience, which demonstrates our approach has the potential for further advancing the development of user-friendly text-to-image generation models by bridging the semantic gap between simple narrative prompts and complex keyword-based prompts. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Boosting Visual-Language Models by Exploiting Hard Samples  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05208  
**Abstract:** Large vision and language models, such as Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP), are rapidly becoming the industry norm for matching images and texts. In order to improve its zero-shot recognition performance, current research either adds additional web-crawled image-text pairs or designs new training losses. However, the additional costs associated with training from scratch and data collection substantially hinder their deployment. In this paper, we present HELIP, a low-cost strategy for boosting the performance of well-trained CLIP models by finetuning them with hard samples over original training data. Mixing hard examples into each batch, the well-trained CLIP model is then fine-tuned using the conventional contrastive alignment objective and a margin loss to distinguish between normal and hard negative data. HELIP is deployed in a plug-and-play fashion to existing models. On a comprehensive zero-shot and retrieval benchmark, without training the model from scratch or utilizing additional data, HELIP consistently boosts existing models to achieve leading performance. In particular, HELIP boosts ImageNet zero-shot accuracy of SLIP by 3.05 and 4.47 when pretrained on CC3M and CC12M respectively. In addition, a systematic evaluation of zero-shot and linear probing experiments across fine-grained classification datasets demonstrates a consistent performance improvement and validates the efficacy of HELIP . When pretraining on CC3M, HELIP boosts zero-shot performance of CLIP and SLIP by 8.4\% and 18.6\% on average respectively, and linear probe performance by 9.5\% and 3.0\% on average respectively. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** FishRecGAN: An End to End GAN Based Network for Fisheye Rectification  and Calibration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05222  
**Abstract:** We propose an end-to-end deep learning approach to rectify fisheye images and simultaneously calibrate camera intrinsic and distortion parameters. Our method consists of two parts: a Quick Image Rectification Module developed with a Pix2Pix GAN and Wasserstein GAN (W-Pix2PixGAN), and a Calibration Module with a CNN architecture. Our Quick Rectification Network performs robust rectification with good resolution, making it suitable for constant calibration in camera-based surveillance equipment. To achieve high-quality calibration, we use the straightened output from the Quick Rectification Module as a guidance-like semantic feature map for the Calibration Module to learn the geometric relationship between the straightened feature and the distorted feature. We train and validate our method with a large synthesized dataset labeled with well-simulated parameters applied to a perspective image dataset. Our solution has achieved robust performance in high-resolution with a significant PSNR value of 22.343. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Detection of depression on social networks using transformers and  ensembles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05325  
**Abstract:** As the impact of technology on our lives is increasing, we witness increased use of social media that became an essential tool not only for communication but also for sharing information with community about our thoughts and feelings. This can be observed also for people with mental health disorders such as depression where they use social media for expressing their thoughts and asking for help. This opens a possibility to automatically process social media posts and detect signs of depression. We build several large pre-trained language model based classifiers for depression detection from social media posts. Besides fine-tuning BERT, RoBERTA, BERTweet, and mentalBERT were also construct two types of ensembles. We analyze the performance of our models on two data sets of posts from social platforms Reddit and Twitter, and investigate also the performance of transfer learning across the two data sets. The results show that transformer ensembles improve over the single transformer-based classifiers. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** GPT-NAS: Neural Architecture Search with the Generative Pre-Trained  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05351  
**Abstract:** Neural Architecture Search (NAS) has emerged as one of the effective methods to design the optimal neural network architecture automatically. Although neural architectures have achieved human-level performances in several tasks, few of them are obtained from the NAS method. The main reason is the huge search space of neural architectures, making NAS algorithms inefficient. This work presents a novel architecture search algorithm, called GPT-NAS, that optimizes neural architectures by Generative Pre-Trained (GPT) model. In GPT-NAS, we assume that a generative model pre-trained on a large-scale corpus could learn the fundamental law of building neural architectures. Therefore, GPT-NAS leverages the generative pre-trained (GPT) model to propose reasonable architecture components given the basic one. Such an approach can largely reduce the search space by introducing prior knowledge in the search process. Extensive experimental results show that our GPT-NAS method significantly outperforms seven manually designed neural architectures and thirteen architectures provided by competing NAS methods. In addition, our ablation study indicates that the proposed algorithm improves the performance of finely tuned neural architectures by up to about 12% compared to those without GPT, further demonstrating its effectiveness in searching neural architectures. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** A Framework for Designing Foundation Model based Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05352  
**Abstract:** The recent release of large language model (LLM) based chatbots, such as ChatGPT, has attracted significant attention on foundations models. It is widely believed that foundation models will serve as the fundamental building blocks for future AI systems. As foundation models are in their early stages, the design of foundation model based systems has not yet been systematically explored. There is little understanding about the impact of introducing foundation models in software architecture. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a taxonomy of foundation model based systems, which classifies and compares the characteristics of foundation models and foundation model based systems. Our taxonomy comprises three categories: foundation model pretraining and fine-tuning, architecture design of foundation model based systems, and responsible-AI-by-design. This taxonomy provides concrete guidance for making major design decisions when designing foundation model based systems and highlights trade-offs arising from design decisions. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Professional Certification Benchmark Dataset: The First 500 Jobs For  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05377  
**Abstract:** The research creates a professional certification survey to test large language models and evaluate their employable skills. It compares the performance of two AI models, GPT-3 and Turbo-GPT3.5, on a benchmark dataset of 1149 professional certifications, emphasizing vocational readiness rather than academic performance. GPT-3 achieved a passing score (>70% correct) in 39% of the professional certifications without fine-tuning or exam preparation. The models demonstrated qualifications in various computer-related fields, such as cloud and virtualization, business analytics, cybersecurity, network setup and repair, and data analytics. Turbo-GPT3.5 scored 100% on the valuable Offensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP) exam. The models also displayed competence in other professional domains, including nursing, licensed counseling, pharmacy, and teaching. Turbo-GPT3.5 passed the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) Series 6 exam with a 70% grade without preparation. Interestingly, Turbo-GPT3.5 performed well on customer service tasks, suggesting potential applications in human augmentation for chatbots in call centers and routine advice services. The models also score well on sensory and experience-based tests such as wine sommelier, beer taster, emotional quotient, and body language reader. The OpenAI model improvement from Babbage to Turbo resulted in a median 60% better-graded performance in less than a few years. This progress suggests that focusing on the latest model's shortcomings could lead to a highly performant AI capable of mastering the most demanding professional certifications. We open-source the benchmark to expand the range of testable professional skills as the models improve or gain emergent capabilities. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** TASTY: A Transformer based Approach to Space and Time complexitY  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05379  
**Abstract:** Code based Language Models (LMs) have shown very promising results in the field of software engineering with applications such as code refinement, code completion and generation. However, the task of time and space complexity classification from code has not been extensively explored due to a lack of datasets, with prior endeavors being limited to Java. In this project, we aim to address these gaps by creating a labelled dataset of code snippets spanning multiple languages (Python and C++ datasets currently, with C, C#, and JavaScript datasets being released shortly). We find that existing time complexity calculation libraries and tools only apply to a limited number of use-cases. The lack of a well-defined rule based system motivates the application of several recently proposed code-based LMs. We demonstrate the effectiveness of dead code elimination and increasing the maximum sequence length of LMs. In addition to time complexity, we propose to use LMs to find space complexities from code, and to the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to do so. Furthermore, we introduce a novel code comprehension task, called cross-language transfer, where we fine-tune the LM on one language and run inference on another. Finally, we visualize the activation of the attention fed classification head of our LMs using Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) to interpret our results. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Code Execution with Pre-trained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05383  
**Abstract:** Code execution is a fundamental aspect of programming language semantics that reflects the exact behavior of the code. However, most pre-trained models for code intelligence ignore the execution trace and only rely on source code and syntactic structures. In this paper, we investigate how well pre-trained models can understand and perform code execution. We develop a mutation-based data augmentation technique to create a large-scale and realistic Python dataset and task for code execution, which challenges existing models such as Codex. We then present CodeExecutor, a Transformer model that leverages code execution pre-training and curriculum learning to enhance its semantic comprehension. We evaluate CodeExecutor on code execution and show its promising performance and limitations. We also demonstrate its potential benefits for code intelligence tasks such as zero-shot code-to-code search and text-to-code generation. Our analysis provides insights into the learning and generalization abilities of pre-trained models for code execution. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Learn to Sing by Listening: Building Controllable Virtual Singer by  Unsupervised Learning from Voice Recordings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05401  
**Abstract:** The virtual world is being established in which digital humans are created indistinguishable from real humans. Producing their audio-related capabilities is crucial since voice conveys extensive personal characteristics. We aim to create a controllable audio-form virtual singer; however, supervised modeling and controlling all different factors of the singing voice, such as timbre, tempo, pitch, and lyrics, is extremely difficult since accurately labeling all such information needs enormous labor work. In this paper, we propose a framework that could digitize a person's voice by simply "listening" to the clean voice recordings of any content in a fully unsupervised manner and predict singing voices even only using speaking recordings. A variational auto-encoder (VAE) based framework is developed, which leverages a set of pre-trained models to encode the audio as various hidden embeddings representing different factors of the singing voice, and further decodes the embeddings into raw audio. By manipulating the hidden embeddings for different factors, the resulting singing voices can be controlled, and new virtual singers can also be further generated by interpolating between timbres. Evaluations of different types of experiments demonstrate the proposed method's effectiveness. The proposed method is the critical technique for producing the AI choir, which empowered the human-AI symbiotic orchestra in Hong Kong in July 2022. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Implicit-explicit Runge-Kutta for radiation hydrodynamics I: gray  diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05452  
**Abstract:** Radiation hydrodynamics are a challenging multiscale and multiphysics set of equations. To capture the relevant physics of interest, one typically must time step on the hydrodynamics timescale, making explicit integration the obvious choice. On the other hand, the coupled radiation equations have a scaling such that implicit integration is effectively necessary in non-relativistic regimes. A first-order Lie-Trotter-like operator split is the most common time integration scheme used in practice, alternating between an explicit hydrodynamics step and an implicit radiation solve and energy deposition step. However, such a scheme is limited to first-order accuracy, and nonlinear coupling between the radiation and hydrodynamics equations makes a more general additive partitioning of the equations non-trivial. Here, we develop a new formulation and partitioning of radiation hydrodynamics with gray diffusion that allows us to apply (linearly) implicit-explicit Runge-Kutta time integration schemes. We prove conservation of total energy in the new framework, and demonstrate 2nd-order convergence in time on multiple radiative shock problems, achieving error 3--5 orders of magnitude smaller than the first-order Lie-Trotter operator split at the hydrodynamic CFL, even when Lie-Trotter applies a 3rd-order TVD Runge-Kutta scheme to the hydrodynamics equations. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** What is the best recipe for character-level encoder-only modelling?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05461  
**Abstract:** This paper aims to benchmark recent progress in language understanding models that output contextualised representations at the character level. Many such modelling architectures and methods to train those architectures have been proposed, but it is currently unclear what the relative contributions of the architecture vs. the pretraining objective are to final model performance. We explore the design space of such models, comparing architectural innovations and a variety of different pretraining objectives on a suite of evaluation tasks with a fixed training procedure in order to find the currently optimal way to build and train character-level BERT-like models. We find that our best performing character-level model exceeds the performance of a token-based model trained with the same settings on the same data, suggesting that character-level models are ready for more widespread adoption. Unfortunately, the best method to train character-level models still relies on a subword-level tokeniser during pretraining, and final model performance is highly dependent on tokeniser quality. We believe our results demonstrate the readiness of character-level models for multilingual language representation, and encourage NLP practitioners to try them as drop-in replacements for token-based models. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Style-A-Video: Agile Diffusion for Arbitrary Text-based Video Style  Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05464  
**Abstract:** Large-scale text-to-video diffusion models have demonstrated an exceptional ability to synthesize diverse videos. However, due to the lack of extensive text-to-video datasets and the necessary computational resources for training, directly applying these models for video stylization remains difficult. Also, given that the noise addition process on the input content is random and destructive, fulfilling the style transfer task's content preservation criteria is challenging. This paper proposes a zero-shot video stylization method named Style-A-Video, which utilizes a generative pre-trained transformer with an image latent diffusion model to achieve a concise text-controlled video stylization. We improve the guidance condition in the denoising process, establishing a balance between artistic expression and structure preservation. Furthermore, to decrease inter-frame flicker and avoid the formation of additional artifacts, we employ a sampling optimization and a temporal consistency module. Extensive experiments show that we can attain superior content preservation and stylistic performance while incurring less consumption than previous solutions. Code will be available at https://github.com/haha-lisa/Style-A-Video. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Investigating the effect of sub-word segmentation on the performance of  transformer language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05480  
**Abstract:** We would like to explore how morphemes can affect the performance of a language model. We trained GPT-2 and Bert model with StateMorph for both Finnish and Russian, which is a morpheme segmenting algorithm. As a comparison, we also trained a model with BPE and Morfessor. Our preliminary result shows that StateMorph can help the model to converge more efficiently and achieve a better validation score. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** BadCS: A Backdoor Attack Framework for Code search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05503  
**Abstract:** With the development of deep learning (DL), DL-based code search models have achieved state-of-the-art performance and have been widely used by developers during software development. However, the security issue, e.g., recommending vulnerable code, has not received sufficient attention, which will bring potential harm to software development. Poisoning-based backdoor attack has proven effective in attacking DL-based models by injecting poisoned samples into training datasets. However, previous work shows that the attack technique does not perform successfully on all DL-based code search models and tends to fail for Transformer-based models, especially pretrained models. Besides, the infected models generally perform worse than benign models, which makes the attack not stealthy enough and thereby hinders the adoption by developers. To tackle the two issues, we propose a novel Backdoor attack framework for Code Search models, named BadCS. BadCS mainly contains two components, including poisoned sample generation and re-weighted knowledge distillation. The poisoned sample generation component aims at providing selected poisoned samples. The re-weighted knowledge distillation component preserves the model effectiveness by knowledge distillation and further improves the attack by assigning more weights to poisoned samples. Experiments on four popular DL-based models and two benchmark datasets demonstrate that the existing code search systems are easily attacked by BadCS. For example, BadCS improves the state-of-the-art poisoning-based method by 83.03%-99.98% and 75.98%-99.90% on Python and Java datasets, respectively. Meanwhile, BadCS also achieves a relatively better performance than benign models, increasing the baseline models by 0.49% and 0.46% on average, respectively. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Integrating Holistic and Local Information to Estimate Emotional  Reaction Intensity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05534  
**Abstract:** Video-based Emotional Reaction Intensity (ERI) estimation measures the intensity of subjects' reactions to stimuli along several emotional dimensions from videos of the subject as they view the stimuli. We propose a multi-modal architecture for video-based ERI combining video and audio information. Video input is encoded spatially first, frame-by-frame, combining features encoding holistic aspects of the subjects' facial expressions and features encoding spatially localized aspects of their expressions. Input is then combined across time: from frame-to-frame using gated recurrent units (GRUs), then globally by a transformer. We handle variable video length with a regression token that accumulates information from all frames into a fixed-dimensional vector independent of video length. Audio information is handled similarly: spectral information extracted within each frame is integrated across time by a cascade of GRUs and a transformer with regression token. The video and audio regression tokens' outputs are merged by concatenation, then input to a final fully connected layer producing intensity estimates. Our architecture achieved excellent performance on the Hume-Reaction dataset in the ERI Esimation Challenge of the Fifth Competition on Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-Wild (ABAW5). The Pearson Correlation Coefficients between estimated and subject self-reported scores, averaged across all emotions, were 0.455 on the validation dataset and 0.4547 on the test dataset, well above the baselines. The transformer's self-attention mechanism enables our architecture to focus on the most critical video frames regardless of length. Ablation experiments establish the advantages of combining holistic/local features and of multi-modal integration. Code available at https://github.com/HKUST-NISL/ABAW5. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Group Activity Recognition via Dynamic Composition and Interaction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05583  
**Abstract:** Previous group activity recognition approaches were limited to reasoning using human relations or finding important subgroups and tended to ignore indispensable group composition and human-object interactions. This absence makes a partial interpretation of the scene and increases the interference of irrelevant actions on the results. Therefore, we propose our DynamicFormer with Dynamic composition Module (DcM) and Dynamic interaction Module (DiM) to model relations and locations of persons and discriminate the contribution of participants, respectively. Our findings on group composition and human-object interaction inspire our core idea. Group composition tells us the location of people and their relations inside the group, while interaction reflects the relation between humans and objects outside the group. We utilize spatial and temporal encoders in DcM to model our dynamic composition and build DiM to explore interaction with a novel GCN, which has a transformer inside to consider the temporal neighbors of human/object. Also, a Multi-level Dynamic Integration is employed to integrate features from different levels. We conduct extensive experiments on two public datasets and show that our method achieves state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** AudioSlots: A slot-centric generative model for audio separation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05591  
**Abstract:** In a range of recent works, object-centric architectures have been shown to be suitable for unsupervised scene decomposition in the vision domain. Inspired by these methods we present AudioSlots, a slot-centric generative model for blind source separation in the audio domain. AudioSlots is built using permutation-equivariant encoder and decoder networks. The encoder network based on the Transformer architecture learns to map a mixed audio spectrogram to an unordered set of independent source embeddings. The spatial broadcast decoder network learns to generate the source spectrograms from the source embeddings. We train the model in an end-to-end manner using a permutation invariant loss function. Our results on Libri2Mix speech separation constitute a proof of concept that this approach shows promise. We discuss the results and limitations of our approach in detail, and further outline potential ways to overcome the limitations and directions for future work. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** The Case Records of ChatGPT: Language Models and Complex Clinical  Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05609  
**Abstract:** Background: Artificial intelligence language models have shown promise in various applications, including assisting with clinical decision-making as demonstrated by strong performance of large language models on medical licensure exams. However, their ability to solve complex, open-ended cases, which may be representative of clinical practice, remains unexplored. Methods: In this study, the accuracy of large language AI models GPT4 and GPT3.5 in diagnosing complex clinical cases was investigated using published Case Records of the Massachusetts General Hospital. A total of 50 cases requiring a diagnosis and diagnostic test published from January 1, 2022 to April 16, 2022 were identified. For each case, models were given a prompt requesting the top three specific diagnoses and associated diagnostic tests, followed by case text, labs, and figure legends. Model outputs were assessed in comparison to the final clinical diagnosis and whether the model-predicted test would result in a correct diagnosis. Results: GPT4 and GPT3.5 accurately provided the correct diagnosis in 26% and 22% of cases in one attempt, and 46% and 42% within three attempts, respectively. GPT4 and GPT3.5 provided a correct essential diagnostic test in 28% and 24% of cases in one attempt, and 44% and 50% within three attempts, respectively. No significant differences were found between the two models, and multiple trials with identical prompts using the GPT3.5 model provided similar results. Conclusions: In summary, these models demonstrate potential usefulness in generating differential diagnoses but remain limited in their ability to provide a single unifying diagnosis in complex, open-ended cases. Future research should focus on evaluating model performance in larger datasets of open-ended clinical challenges and exploring potential human-AI collaboration strategies to enhance clinical decision-making. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Towards Building the Federated GPT: Federated Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05644  
**Abstract:** While ``instruction-tuned" generative large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated an impressive ability to generalize to new tasks, the training phases heavily rely on large amounts of diverse and high-quality instruction data (such as ChatGPT and GPT-4). Unfortunately, acquiring high-quality data, especially when it comes to human-written data, can pose significant challenges both in terms of cost and accessibility. Moreover, concerns related to privacy can further limit access to such data, making the process of obtaining it a complex and nuanced undertaking. Consequently, this hinders the generality of the tuned models and may restrict their effectiveness in certain contexts. To tackle this issue, our study introduces a new approach called Federated Instruction Tuning (FedIT), which leverages federated learning (FL) as the learning framework for the instruction tuning of LLMs. This marks the first exploration of FL-based instruction tuning for LLMs. This is especially important since text data is predominantly generated by end users. Therefore, it is imperative to design and adapt FL approaches to effectively leverage these users' diverse instructions stored on local devices, while preserving privacy and ensuring data security. In the current paper, by conducting widely used GPT-4 auto-evaluation, we demonstrate that by exploiting the heterogeneous and diverse sets of instructions on the client's end with the proposed framework FedIT, we improved the performance of LLMs compared to centralized training with only limited local instructions. Further, in this paper, we developed a Github repository named Shepherd. This repository offers a foundational framework for exploring federated fine-tuning of LLMs using heterogeneous instructions across diverse categories. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** SwinIA: Self-Supervised Blind-Spot Image Denoising with Zero  Convolutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05651  
**Abstract:** The essence of self-supervised image denoising is to restore the signal from the noisy image alone. State-of-the-art solutions for this task rely on the idea of masking pixels and training a fully-convolutional neural network to impute them. This most often requires multiple forward passes, information about the noise model, and intricate regularization functions. In this paper, we propose a Swin Transformer-based Image Autoencoder (SwinIA), the first convolution-free architecture for self-supervised denoising. It can be trained end-to-end with a simple mean squared error loss without masking and does not require any prior knowledge about clean data or noise distribution. Despite its simplicity, SwinIA establishes state-of-the-art on several common benchmarks. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** InternChat: Solving Vision-Centric Tasks by Interacting with Chatbots  Beyond Language  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05662  
**Abstract:** We present an interactive visual framework named InternChat, or iChat for short. The framework integrates chatbots that have planning and reasoning capabilities, such as ChatGPT, with non-verbal instructions like pointing movements that enable users to directly manipulate images or videos on the screen. Pointing (including gestures, cursors, etc.) movements can provide more flexibility and precision in performing vision-centric tasks that require fine-grained control, editing, and generation of visual content. The name InternChat stands for interaction, nonverbal, and chatbots. Different from existing interactive systems that rely on pure language, by incorporating pointing instructions, the proposed iChat significantly improves the efficiency of communication between users and chatbots, as well as the accuracy of chatbots in vision-centric tasks, especially in complicated visual scenarios where the number of objects is greater than 2. Additionally, in iChat, an auxiliary control mechanism is used to improve the control capability of LLM, and a large vision-language model termed Husky is fine-tuned for high-quality multi-modal dialogue (impressing ChatGPT-3.5-turbo with 93.89% GPT-4 Quality). We hope this work can spark new ideas and directions for future interactive visual systems. Welcome to watch the code at https://github.com/OpenGVLab/InternChat. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Generative Pretrained Autoregressive Transformer Graph Neural Network  applied to the Analysis and Discovery of Novel Proteins  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.04934  
**Abstract:** We report a flexible language-model based deep learning strategy, applied here to solve complex forward and inverse problems in protein modeling, based on an attention neural network that integrates transformer and graph convolutional architectures in a causal multi-headed graph mechanism, to realize a generative pretrained model. The model is applied to predict secondary structure content (per-residue level and overall content), protein solubility, and sequencing tasks. Further trained on inverse tasks, the model is rendered capable of designing proteins with these properties as target features. The model is formulated as a general framework, completely prompt-based, and can be adapted for a variety of downstream tasks. We find that adding additional tasks yields emergent synergies that the model exploits in improving overall performance, beyond what would be possible by training a model on each dataset alone. Case studies are presented to validate the method, yielding protein designs specifically focused on structural proteins, but also exploring the applicability in the design of soluble, antimicrobial biomaterials. While our model is trained to ultimately perform 8 distinct tasks, with available datasets it can be extended to solve additional problems. In a broader sense, this work illustrates a form of multiscale modeling that relates a set of ultimate building blocks (here, byte-level utf8 characters) to complex output. This materiomic scheme captures complex emergent relationships between universal building block and resulting properties via a synergizing learning capacity to express a set of potentialities embedded in the knowledge used in training, via the interplay of universality and diversity. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Fast Conformer with Linearly Scalable Attention for Efficient Speech  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05084  
**Abstract:** Conformer-based models have become the most dominant end- to-end architecture for speech processing tasks. In this work, we propose a carefully redesigned Conformer with a new down- sampling schema. The proposed model, named Fast Con- former, is 2.8x faster than original Conformer, while preserv- ing state-of-the-art accuracy on Automatic Speech Recognition benchmarks. Also we replace the original Conformer global attention with limited context attention post-training to enable transcription of an hour-long audio. We further improve long- form speech transcription by adding a global token. Fast Con- former combined with a Transformer decoder also outperforms the original Conformer in accuracy and in speed for Speech Translation and Spoken Language Understanding. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Echo from noise: synthetic ultrasound image generation using diffusion  models for real image segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05424  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel pipeline for the generation of synthetic images via Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) guided by cardiac ultrasound semantic label maps. We show that these synthetic images can serve as a viable substitute for real data in the training of deep-learning models for medical image analysis tasks such as image segmentation. To demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach, we generated synthetic 2D echocardiography images and trained a neural network for segmentation of the left ventricle and left atrium. The performance of the network trained on exclusively synthetic images was evaluated on an unseen dataset of real images and yielded mean Dice scores of 88.5 $\pm 6.0$ , 92.3 $\pm 3.9$, 86.3 $\pm 10.7$ \% for left ventricular endocardial, epicardial and left atrial segmentation respectively. This represents an increase of $9.09$, $3.7$ and $15.0$ \% in Dice scores compared to the previous state-of-the-art. The proposed pipeline has the potential for application to a wide range of other tasks across various medical imaging modalities. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Attention-Based Transformer Networks for Quantum State Tomography  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05433  
**Abstract:** Neural networks have been actively explored for quantum state tomography (QST) due to their favorable expressibility. To further enhance the efficiency of reconstructing quantum states, we explore the similarity between language modeling and quantum state tomography and propose an attention-based QST method that utilizes the Transformer network to capture the correlations between measured results from different measurements. Our method directly retrieves the density matrices of quantum states from measured statistics, with the assistance of an integrated loss function that helps minimize the difference between the actual states and the retrieved states. Then, we systematically trace different impacts within a bag of common training strategies involving various parameter adjustments on the attention-based QST method. Combining these techniques, we establish a robust baseline that can efficiently reconstruct pure and mixed quantum states. Furthermore, by comparing the performance of three popular neural network architectures (FCNs, CNNs, and Transformer), we demonstrate the remarkable expressiveness of attention in learning density matrices from measured statistics. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** CIT-EmotionNet: CNN Interactive Transformer Network for EEG Emotion  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.05548  
**Abstract:** Emotion recognition using Electroencephalogram (EEG) signals has emerged as a significant research challenge in affective computing and intelligent interaction. However, effectively combining global and local features of EEG signals to improve performance in emotion recognition is still a difficult task. In this study, we propose a novel CNN Interactive Transformer Network for EEG Emotion Recognition, known as CIT-EmotionNet, which efficiently integrates global and local features of EEG signals. Initially, we convert raw EEG signals into spatial-frequency representations, which serve as inputs. Then, we integrate Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and Transformer within a single framework in a parallel manner. Finally, we design a CNN interactive Transformer module, which facilitates the interaction and fusion of local and global features, thereby enhancing the model's ability to extract both types of features from EEG spatial-frequency representations. The proposed CIT-EmotionNet outperforms state-of-the-art methods, achieving an average recognition accuracy of 98.57\% and 92.09\% on two publicly available datasets, SEED and SEED-IV, respectively. 

