**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Accessible Instruction-Following Agent  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06358  
**Abstract:** Humans can collaborate and complete tasks based on visual signals and instruction from the environment. Training such a robot is difficult especially due to the understanding of the instruction and the complicated environment. Previous instruction-following agents are biased to English-centric corpus, making it unrealizable to be applied to users that use multiple languages or even low-resource languages. Nevertheless, the instruction-following agents are pre-trained in a mode that assumes the user can observe the environment, which limits its accessibility. In this work, we're trying to generalize the success of instruction-following agents to non-English languages with little corpus resources, and improve its intractability and accessibility. We introduce UVLN (Universal Vision-Language Navigation), a novel machine-translation instructional augmented framework for cross-lingual vision-language navigation, with a novel composition of state-of-the-art large language model (GPT3) with the image caption model (BLIP). We first collect a multilanguage vision-language navigation dataset via machine translation. Then we extend the standard VLN training objectives to a multilingual setting via a cross-lingual language encoder. The alignment between different languages is captured through a shared vision and action context via a cross-modal transformer, which encodes the inputs of language instruction, visual observation, and action decision sequences. To improve the intractability, we connect our agent with the large language model that informs the situation and current state to the user and also explains the action decisions. Experiments over Room Across Room Dataset prove the effectiveness of our approach. And the qualitative results show the promising intractability and accessibility of our instruction-following agent. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Text-To-Concept (and Back) via Cross-Model Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06386  
**Abstract:** We observe that the mapping between an image's representation in one model to its representation in another can be learned surprisingly well with just a linear layer, even across diverse models. Building on this observation, we propose $\textit{text-to-concept}$, where features from a fixed pretrained model are aligned linearly to the CLIP space, so that text embeddings from CLIP's text encoder become directly comparable to the aligned features. With text-to-concept, we convert fixed off-the-shelf vision encoders to surprisingly strong zero-shot classifiers for free, with accuracy at times even surpassing that of CLIP, despite being much smaller models and trained on a small fraction of the data compared to CLIP. We show other immediate use-cases of text-to-concept, like building concept bottleneck models with no concept supervision, diagnosing distribution shifts in terms of human concepts, and retrieving images satisfying a set of text-based constraints. Lastly, we demonstrate the feasibility of $\textit{concept-to-text}$, where vectors in a model's feature space are decoded by first aligning to the CLIP before being fed to a GPT-based generative model. Our work suggests existing deep models, with presumably diverse architectures and training, represent input samples relatively similarly, and a two-way communication across model representation spaces and to humans (through language) is viable. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Analyzing Bias in Diffusion-based Face Generation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06402  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are becoming increasingly popular in synthetic data generation and image editing applications. However, these models can amplify existing biases and propagate them to downstream applications. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the sources of bias in their outputs. In this paper, we investigate the presence of bias in diffusion-based face generation models with respect to attributes such as gender, race, and age. Moreover, we examine how dataset size affects the attribute composition and perceptual quality of both diffusion and Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) based face generation models across various attribute classes. Our findings suggest that diffusion models tend to worsen distribution bias in the training data for various attributes, which is heavily influenced by the size of the dataset. Conversely, GAN models trained on balanced datasets with a larger number of samples show less bias across different attributes. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** LACoS-BLOOM: Low-rank Adaptation with Contrastive objective on 8 bits  Siamese-BLOOM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06404  
**Abstract:** Text embeddings are useful features for several NLP applications, such as sentence similarity, text clustering, and semantic search. In this paper, we present a Low-rank Adaptation with a Contrastive objective on top of 8-bit Siamese-BLOOM, a multilingual large language model optimized to produce semantically meaningful word embeddings. The innovation is threefold. First, we cast BLOOM weights to 8-bit values. Second, we fine-tune BLOOM with a scalable adapter (LoRA) and 8-bit Adam optimizer for sentence similarity classification. Third, we apply a Siamese architecture on BLOOM model with a contrastive objective to ease the multi-lingual labeled data scarcity. The experiment results show the quality of learned embeddings from LACoS-BLOOM is proportional to the number of model parameters and the amount of unlabeled training data. With the parameter efficient fine-tuning design, we are able to run BLOOM 7.1 billion parameters end-to-end on a single GPU machine with 32GB memory. Compared to previous solution Sentence-BERT, we achieve significant improvement on both English and multi-lingual STS tasks. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** A Method to Automate the Discharge Summary Hospital Course for Neurology  Patients  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06416  
**Abstract:** Generation of automated clinical notes have been posited as a strategy to mitigate physician burnout. In particular, an automated narrative summary of a patient's hospital stay could supplement the hospital course section of the discharge summary that inpatient physicians document in electronic health record (EHR) systems. In the current study, we developed and evaluated an automated method for summarizing the hospital course section using encoder-decoder sequence-to-sequence transformer models. We fine tuned BERT and BART models and optimized for factuality through constraining beam search, which we trained and tested using EHR data from patients admitted to the neurology unit of an academic medical center. The approach demonstrated good ROUGE scores with an R-2 of 13.76. In a blind evaluation, two board-certified physicians rated 62% of the automated summaries as meeting the standard of care, which suggests the method may be useful clinically. To our knowledge, this study is among the first to demonstrate an automated method for generating a discharge summary hospital course that approaches a quality level of what a physician would write. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Bot or Human? Detecting ChatGPT Imposters with A Single Question  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06424  
**Abstract:** Large language models like ChatGPT have recently demonstrated impressive capabilities in natural language understanding and generation, enabling various applications including translation, essay writing, and chit-chatting. However, there is a concern that they can be misused for malicious purposes, such as fraud or denial-of-service attacks. Therefore, it is crucial to develop methods for detecting whether the party involved in a conversation is a bot or a human. In this paper, we propose a framework named FLAIR, Finding Large language model Authenticity via a single Inquiry and Response, to detect conversational bots in an online manner. Specifically, we target a single question scenario that can effectively differentiate human users from bots. The questions are divided into two categories: those that are easy for humans but difficult for bots (e.g., counting, substitution, positioning, noise filtering, and ASCII art), and those that are easy for bots but difficult for humans (e.g., memorization and computation). Our approach shows different strengths of these questions in their effectiveness, providing a new way for online service providers to protect themselves against nefarious activities and ensure that they are serving real users. We open-sourced our dataset on https://github.com/hongwang600/FLAIR and welcome contributions from the community to enrich such detection datasets. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Autonomous GIS: the next-generation AI-powered GIS  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06453  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, demonstrate a strong understanding of human natural language and have been explored and applied in various fields, including reasoning, creative writing, code generation, translation, and information retrieval. By adopting LLM as the reasoning core, we propose Autonomous GIS, an AI-powered geographic information system (GIS) that leverages the LLM's general abilities in natural language understanding, reasoning and coding for addressing spatial problems with automatic spatial data collection, analysis and visualization. We envision that autonomous GIS will need to achieve five autonomous goals including self-generating, self-organizing, self-verifying, self-executing, and self-growing. We introduce the design principles of autonomous GIS to achieve these five autonomous goals from the aspects of information sufficiency, LLM ability, and agent architecture. We developed a prototype system called LLM-Geo using GPT-4 API in a Python environment, demonstrating what an autonomous GIS looks like and how it delivers expected results without human intervention using two case studies. For both case studies, LLM-Geo successfully returned accurate results, including aggregated numbers, graphs, and maps, significantly reducing manual operation time. Although still lacking several important modules such as logging and code testing, LLM-Geo demonstrates a potential path towards next-generation AI-powered GIS. We advocate for the GIScience community to dedicate more effort to the research and development of autonomous GIS, making spatial analysis easier, faster, and more accessible to a broader audience. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** ChatGPT-Like Large-Scale Foundation Models for Prognostics and Health  Management: A Survey and Roadmaps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06472  
**Abstract:** Prognostics and health management (PHM) technology plays a critical role in industrial production and equipment maintenance by identifying and predicting possible equipment failures and damages, thereby allowing necessary maintenance measures to be taken to enhance equipment service life and reliability while reducing production costs and downtime. In recent years, PHM technology based on artificial intelligence (AI) has made remarkable achievements in the context of the industrial IoT and big data, and it is widely used in various industries, such as railway, energy, and aviation, for condition monitoring, fault prediction, and health management. The emergence of large-scale foundation models (LSF-Models) such as ChatGPT and DALLE-E marks the entry of AI into a new era of AI-2.0 from AI-1.0, where deep models have rapidly evolved from a research paradigm of single-modal, single-task, and limited-data to a multi-modal, multi-task, massive data, and super-large model paradigm. ChatGPT represents a landmark achievement in this research paradigm, offering hope for general artificial intelligence due to its highly intelligent natural language understanding ability. However, the PHM field lacks a consensus on how to respond to this significant change in the AI field, and a systematic review and roadmap is required to elucidate future development directions. To fill this gap, this paper systematically expounds on the key components and latest developments of LSF-Models. Then, we systematically answered how to build the LSF-Model applicable to PHM tasks and outlined the challenges and future development roadmaps for this research paradigm. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Undercover Deepfakes: Detecting Fake Segments in Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06564  
**Abstract:** The recent renaissance in generative models, driven primarily by the advent of diffusion models and iterative improvement in GAN methods, has enabled many creative applications. However, each advancement is also accompanied by a rise in the potential for misuse. In the arena of deepfake generation this is a key societal issue. In particular, the ability to modify segments of videos using such generative techniques creates a new paradigm of deepfakes which are mostly real videos altered slightly to distort the truth. Current deepfake detection methods in the academic literature are not evaluated on this paradigm. In this paper, we present a deepfake detection method able to address this issue by performing both frame and video level deepfake prediction. To facilitate testing our method we create a new benchmark dataset where videos have both real and fake frame sequences. Our method utilizes the Vision Transformer, Scaling and Shifting pretraining and Timeseries Transformer to temporally segment videos to help facilitate the interpretation of possible deepfakes. Extensive experiments on a variety of deepfake generation methods show excellent results on temporal segmentation and classical video level predictions as well. In particular, the paradigm we introduce will form a powerful tool for the moderation of deepfakes, where human oversight can be better targeted to the parts of videos suspected of being deepfakes. All experiments can be reproduced at: https://github.com/sanjaysaha1311/temporal-deepfake-segmentation. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Chain-of-Dictionary Prompting Elicits Translation in Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06575  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have shown surprisingly good performance in multilingual neural machine translation (MNMT) even when trained without parallel data. Yet, despite the fact that the amount of training data is gigantic, they still struggle with translating rare words, particularly for low-resource languages. Even worse, it is usually unrealistic to retrieve relevant demonstrations for in-context learning with low-resource languages on LLMs, which restricts the practical use of LLMs for translation -- how should we mitigate this problem? To this end, we present a novel method, CoD, which augments LLMs with prior knowledge with the chains of multilingual dictionaries for a subset of input words to elicit translation abilities for LLMs. Extensive experiments indicate that augmenting ChatGPT with CoD elicits large gains by up to 13x ChrF++ points for MNMT (3.08 to 42.63 for English to Serbian written in Cyrillic script) on FLORES-200 full devtest set. We further demonstrate the importance of chaining the multilingual dictionaries, as well as the superiority of CoD to few-shot demonstration for low-resource languages. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Exploiting Fine-Grained DCT Representations for Hiding Image-Level  Messages within JPEG Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06582  
**Abstract:** Unlike hiding bit-level messages, hiding image-level messages is more challenging, which requires large capacity, high imperceptibility, and high security. Although recent advances in hiding image-level messages have been remarkable, existing schemes are limited to lossless spatial images as covers and cannot be directly applied to JPEG images, the ubiquitous lossy format images in daily life. The difficulties of migration are caused by the lack of targeted design and the loss of details due to lossy decompression and re-compression. Considering that taking DCT densely on $8\times8$ image patches is the core of the JPEG compression standard, we design a novel model called \textsf{EFDR}, which can comprehensively \underline{E}xploit \underline{F}ine-grained \underline{D}CT \underline{R}epresentations and embed the secret image into quantized DCT coefficients to avoid the lossy process. Specifically, we transform the JPEG cover image and hidden secret image into fine-grained DCT representations that compact the frequency and are associated with the inter-block and intra-block correlations. Subsequently, the fine-grained DCT representations are further enhanced by a sub-band features enhancement module. Afterward, a transformer-based invertibility module is designed to fuse enhanced sub-band features. Such a design enables a fine-grained self-attention on each sub-band and captures long-range dependencies while maintaining excellent reversibility for hiding and recovery. To our best knowledge, this is the first attempt to embed a color image of equal size in a color JPEG image. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our \textsf{EFDR} with superior performance. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** SemEval-2023 Task 2: Fine-grained Multilingual Named Entity Recognition  (MultiCoNER 2)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06586  
**Abstract:** We present the findings of SemEval-2023 Task 2 on Fine-grained Multilingual Named Entity Recognition (MultiCoNER 2). Divided into 13 tracks, the task focused on methods to identify complex fine-grained named entities (like WRITTENWORK, VEHICLE, MUSICALGRP) across 12 languages, in both monolingual and multilingual scenarios, as well as noisy settings. The task used the MultiCoNER V2 dataset, composed of 2.2 million instances in Bangla, Chinese, English, Farsi, French, German, Hindi, Italian., Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, and Ukrainian. MultiCoNER 2 was one of the most popular tasks of SemEval-2023. It attracted 842 submissions from 47 teams, and 34 teams submitted system papers. Results showed that complex entity types such as media titles and product names were the most challenging. Methods fusing external knowledge into transformer models achieved the best performance, and the largest gains were on the Creative Work and Group classes, which are still challenging even with external knowledge. Some fine-grained classes proved to be more challenging than others, such as SCIENTIST, ARTWORK, and PRIVATECORP. We also observed that noisy data has a significant impact on model performance, with an average drop of 10% on the noisy subset. The task highlights the need for future research on improving NER robustness on noisy data containing complex entities. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** BanglaBook: A Large-scale Bangla Dataset for Sentiment Analysis from  Book Reviews  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06595  
**Abstract:** The analysis of consumer sentiment, as expressed through reviews, can provide a wealth of insight regarding the quality of a product. While the study of sentiment analysis has been widely explored in many popular languages, relatively less attention has been given to the Bangla language, mostly due to a lack of relevant data and cross-domain adaptability. To address this limitation, we present BanglaBook, a large-scale dataset of Bangla book reviews consisting of 158,065 samples classified into three broad categories: positive, negative, and neutral. We provide a detailed statistical analysis of the dataset and employ a range of machine learning models to establish baselines including SVM, LSTM, and Bangla-BERT. Our findings demonstrate a substantial performance advantage of pre-trained models over models that rely on manually crafted features, emphasizing the necessity for additional training resources in this domain. Additionally, we conduct an in-depth error analysis by examining sentiment unigrams, which may provide insight into common classification errors in under-resourced languages like Bangla. Our codes and data are publicly available at https://github.com/mohsinulkabir14/BanglaBook. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Enabling Programming Thinking in Large Language Models Toward Code  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06599  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) (e.g., ChatGPT) have shown impressive performance in code generation. A large-scale study released that writing programs requires programming thinking, i.e., analyzing and implementing requirements in programming logic (e.g., sequence, branch, loop). Existing studies use LLMs to generate programs from requirements directly and do not explicitly introduce the programming thinking. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** PVT-SSD: Single-Stage 3D Object Detector with Point-Voxel Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06621  
**Abstract:** Recent Transformer-based 3D object detectors learn point cloud features either from point- or voxel-based representations. However, the former requires time-consuming sampling while the latter introduces quantization errors. In this paper, we present a novel Point-Voxel Transformer for single-stage 3D detection (PVT-SSD) that takes advantage of these two representations. Specifically, we first use voxel-based sparse convolutions for efficient feature encoding. Then, we propose a Point-Voxel Transformer (PVT) module that obtains long-range contexts in a cheap manner from voxels while attaining accurate positions from points. The key to associating the two different representations is our introduced input-dependent Query Initialization module, which could efficiently generate reference points and content queries. Then, PVT adaptively fuses long-range contextual and local geometric information around reference points into content queries. Further, to quickly find the neighboring points of reference points, we design the Virtual Range Image module, which generalizes the native range image to multi-sensor and multi-frame. The experiments on several autonomous driving benchmarks verify the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method. Code will be available at https://github.com/Nightmare-n/PVT-SSD. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** WeditGAN: Few-shot Image Generation via Latent Space Relocation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06671  
**Abstract:** In few-shot image generation, directly training GAN models on just a handful of images faces the risk of overfitting. A popular solution is to transfer the models pretrained on large source domains to small target ones. In this work, we introduce WeditGAN, which realizes model transfer by editing the intermediate latent codes $w$ in StyleGANs with learned constant offsets ($\Delta w$), discovering and constructing target latent spaces via simply relocating the distribution of source latent spaces. The established one-to-one mapping between latent spaces can naturally prevents mode collapse and overfitting. Besides, we also propose variants of WeditGAN to further enhance the relocation process by regularizing the direction or finetuning the intensity of $\Delta w$. Experiments on a collection of widely used source/target datasets manifest the capability of WeditGAN in generating realistic and diverse images, which is simple yet highly effective in the research area of few-shot image generation. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** INGENIOUS: Using Informative Data Subsets for Efficient Pre-Training of  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06677  
**Abstract:** A salient characteristic of large pre-trained language models (PTLMs) is a remarkable improvement in their generalization capability and emergence of new capabilities with increasing model capacity and pre-training dataset size. Consequently, we are witnessing the development of enormous models pushing the state-of-the-art. It is, however, imperative to realize that this inevitably leads to prohibitively long training times, extortionate computing costs, and a detrimental environmental impact. Significant efforts are underway to make PTLM training more efficient through innovations in model architectures, training pipelines, and loss function design, with scant attention being paid to optimizing the utility of training data. The key question that we ask is whether it is possible to train PTLMs by employing only highly informative subsets of the training data while maintaining downstream performance? Building upon the recent progress in informative data subset selection, we show how we can employ submodular optimization to select highly representative subsets of the training corpora. Our results demonstrate that the proposed framework can be applied to efficiently train multiple PTLMs (BERT, BioBERT, GPT-2) using only a fraction of data while retaining up to $\sim99\%$ of the performance of the fully-trained models. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Extending Audio Masked Autoencoders Toward Audio Restoration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06701  
**Abstract:** Audio classification and restoration are among major downstream tasks in audio signal processing. However, restoration derives less of a benefit from pretrained models compared to the overwhelming success of pretrained models in classification tasks. Due to such unbalanced benefits, there has been rising interest in how to improve the performance of pretrained models for restoration tasks such as speech enhancement (SE). Previous works have shown that the features extracted by pretrained audio encoders are effective for SE tasks, but these speech-specific encoder-only models usually require extra decoders to become compatible with SE tasks, and involve complicated pretraining procedures or complex data augmentation. Therefore, in pursuit of a universal audio model, the audio masked autoencoder (MAE) whose backbone is the autoencoder of Vision Transformers (ViT-AE), is extended from audio classification toward restoration tasks in this paper. ViT-AE naturally learns mel-to-mel mapping that is compatible with restoration tasks during pretraining. Among many restoration tasks, SE is chosen due to its well-established evaluation metrics and test data. We propose variations of ViT-AE to improve the SE performance, where the mel-to-mel variations yield high scores for non-intrusive metrics and the STFT-oriented variation is effective at standard intrusive metrics such as PESQ. Different variations can be used in accordance with the scenarios. Comprehensive evaluations and ablation studies show that MAE pretraining is also beneficial to SE tasks and help the ViT-AE to better generalize to out-of-domain distortions. We further found that large-scale noisy data of general audio sources, rather than clean speech, is sufficiently effective for pretraining. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Null-text Guidance in Diffusion Models is Secretly a Cartoon-style  Creator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06710  
**Abstract:** Classifier-free guidance is an effective sampling technique in diffusion models that has been widely adopted. The main idea is to extrapolate the model in the direction of text guidance and away from null-text guidance. In this paper, we demonstrate that null-text guidance in diffusion models is secretly a cartoon-style creator, i.e., the generated images can be efficiently transformed into cartoons by simply perturbing the null-text guidance. Specifically, we proposed two disturbance methods, i.e., Rollback disturbance (Back-D) and Image disturbance (Image-D), to construct misalignment between the noisy images used for predicting null-text guidance and text guidance (subsequently referred to as \textbf{null-text noisy image} and \textbf{text noisy image} respectively) in the sampling process. Back-D achieves cartoonization by altering the noise level of null-text noisy image via replacing $x_t$ with $x_{t+\Delta t}$. Image-D, alternatively, produces high-fidelity, diverse cartoons by defining $x_t$ as a clean input image, which further improves the incorporation of finer image details. Through comprehensive experiments, we delved into the principle of noise disturbing for null-text and uncovered that the efficacy of disturbance depends on the correlation between the null-text noisy image and the source image. Moreover, our proposed techniques, which can generate cartoon images and cartoonize specific ones, are training-free and easily integrated as a plug-and-play component in any classifier-free guided diffusion model. Project page is available at \url{https://nulltextforcartoon.github.io/}. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Advancing Neural Encoding of Portuguese with Transformer Albertina PT-*  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06721  
**Abstract:** To advance the neural encoding of Portuguese (PT), and a fortiori the technological preparation of this language for the digital age, we developed a Transformer-based foundation model that sets a new state of the art in this respect for two of its variants, namely European Portuguese from Portugal (PT-PT) and American Portuguese from Brazil (PT-BR). 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** IVP-VAE: Modeling EHR Time Series with Initial Value Problem Solvers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06741  
**Abstract:** Continuous-time models such as Neural ODEs and Neural Flows have shown promising results in analyzing irregularly sampled time series frequently encountered in electronic health records. Based on these models, time series are typically processed with a hybrid of an initial value problem (IVP) solver and a recurrent neural network within the variational autoencoder architecture. Sequentially solving IVPs makes such models computationally less efficient. In this paper, we propose to model time series purely with continuous processes whose state evolution can be approximated directly by IVPs. This eliminates the need for recurrent computation and enables multiple states to evolve in parallel. We further fuse the encoder and decoder with one IVP solver based on its invertibility, which leads to fewer parameters and faster convergence. Experiments on three real-world datasets show that the proposed approach achieves comparable extrapolation and classification performance while gaining more than one order of magnitude speedup over other continuous-time counterparts. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** COCKATIEL: COntinuous Concept ranKed ATtribution with Interpretable  ELements for explaining neural net classifiers on NLP tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06754  
**Abstract:** Transformer architectures are complex and their use in NLP, while it has engendered many successes, makes their interpretability or explainability challenging. Recent debates have shown that attention maps and attribution methods are unreliable (Pruthi et al., 2019; Brunner et al., 2019). In this paper, we present some of their limitations and introduce COCKATIEL, which successfully addresses some of them. COCKATIEL is a novel, post-hoc, concept-based, model-agnostic XAI technique that generates meaningful explanations from the last layer of a neural net model trained on an NLP classification task by using Non-Negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) to discover the concepts the model leverages to make predictions and by exploiting a Sensitivity Analysis to estimate accurately the importance of each of these concepts for the model. It does so without compromising the accuracy of the underlying model or requiring a new one to be trained. We conduct experiments in single and multi-aspect sentiment analysis tasks and we show COCKATIEL's superior ability to discover concepts that align with humans' on Transformer models without any supervision, we objectively verify the faithfulness of its explanations through fidelity metrics, and we showcase its ability to provide meaningful explanations in two different datasets. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Detecting Idiomatic Multiword Expressions in Clinical Terminology using  Definition-Based Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06801  
**Abstract:** This paper shines a light on the potential of definition-based semantic models for detecting idiomatic and semi-idiomatic multiword expressions (MWEs) in clinical terminology. Our study focuses on biomedical entities defined in the UMLS ontology and aims to help prioritize the translation efforts of these entities. In particular, we develop an effective tool for scoring the idiomaticity of biomedical MWEs based on the degree of similarity between the semantic representations of those MWEs and a weighted average of the representation of their constituents. We achieve this using a biomedical language model trained to produce similar representations for entity names and their definitions, called BioLORD. The importance of this definition-based approach is highlighted by comparing the BioLORD model to two other state-of-the-art biomedical language models based on Transformer: SapBERT and CODER. Our results show that the BioLORD model has a strong ability to identify idiomatic MWEs, not replicated in other models. Our corpus-free idiomaticity estimation helps ontology translators to focus on more challenging MWEs. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** HappyQuokka System for ICASSP 2023 Auditory EEG Challenge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06806  
**Abstract:** This report describes our submission to Task 2 of the Auditory EEG Decoding Challenge at ICASSP 2023 Signal Processing Grand Challenge (SPGC). Task 2 is a regression problem that focuses on reconstructing a speech envelope from an EEG signal. For the task, we propose a pre-layer normalized feed-forward transformer (FFT) architecture. For within-subjects generation, we additionally utilize an auxiliary global conditioner which provides our model with additional information about seen individuals. Experimental results show that our proposed method outperforms the VLAAI baseline and all other submitted systems. Notably, it demonstrates significant improvements on the within-subjects task, likely thanks to our use of the auxiliary global conditioner. In terms of evaluation metrics set by the challenge, we obtain Pearson correlation values of 0.1895 0.0869 for the within-subjects generation test and 0.0976 0.0444 for the heldout-subjects test. We release the training code for our model online. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Multigrid preconditioning of singularly perturbed convection-diffusion  equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06823  
**Abstract:** Boundary value problems based on the convection-diffusion equation arise naturally in models of fluid flow across a variety of engineering applications and design feasibility studies. Naturally, their efficient numerical solution has continued to be an interesting and active topic of research for decades. In the context of finite-element discretization of these boundary value problems, the Streamline Upwind Petrov-Galerkin (SUPG) technique yields accurate discretization in the singularly perturbed regime. In this paper, we propose efficient multigrid iterative solution methods for the resulting linear systems. In particular, we show that techniques from standard multigrid for anisotropic problems can be adapted to these discretizations on both tensor-product as well as semi-structured meshes. The resulting methods are demonstrated to be robust preconditioners for several standard flow benchmarks. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** IUST_NLP at SemEval-2023 Task 10: Explainable Detecting Sexism with  Transformers and Task-adaptive Pretraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06892  
**Abstract:** This paper describes our system on SemEval-2023 Task 10: Explainable Detection of Online Sexism (EDOS). This work aims to design an automatic system for detecting and classifying sexist content in online spaces. We propose a set of transformer-based pre-trained models with task-adaptive pretraining and ensemble learning. The main contributions of our system include analyzing the performance of different transformer-based pre-trained models and combining these models, as well as providing an efficient method using large amounts of unlabeled data for model adaptive pretraining. We have also explored several other strategies. On the test dataset, our system achieves F1-scores of 83%, 64%, and 47% on subtasks A, B, and C, respectively. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Assault and Battery: Evaluating the Security of Power Conversion Systems  Against Electromagnetic Injection Attacks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06901  
**Abstract:** Many modern devices, including critical infrastructures, depend on the reliable operation of electrical power conversion systems. The small size and versatility of switched-mode power converters has resulted in their widespread adoption. Whereas transformer-based systems passively convert voltage, switched-mode converters feature an actively regulated feedback loop, which relies on accurate sensor measurements. Previous academic work has shown that many types of sensors are vulnerable to Intentional Electromagnetic Interference (IEMI) attacks, and it has been postulated that power converters, too, are affected. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** CoMoSpeech: One-Step Speech and Singing Voice Synthesis via Consistency  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06908  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) have shown promising performance for speech synthesis. However, a large number of iterative steps are required to achieve high sample quality, which restricts the inference speed. Maintaining sample quality while increasing sampling speed has become a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a "Co"nsistency "Mo"del-based "Speech" synthesis method, CoMoSpeech, which achieve speech synthesis through a single diffusion sampling step while achieving high audio quality. The consistency constraint is applied to distill a consistency model from a well-designed diffusion-based teacher model, which ultimately yields superior performances in the distilled CoMoSpeech. Our experiments show that by generating audio recordings by a single sampling step, the CoMoSpeech achieves an inference speed more than 150 times faster than real-time on a single NVIDIA A100 GPU, which is comparable to FastSpeech2, making diffusion-sampling based speech synthesis truly practical. Meanwhile, objective and subjective evaluations on text-to-speech and singing voice synthesis show that the proposed teacher models yield the best audio quality, and the one-step sampling based CoMoSpeech achieves the best inference speed with better or comparable audio quality to other conventional multi-step diffusion model baselines. Audio samples are available at https://comospeech.github.io/. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Humans are Still Better than ChatGPT: Case of the IEEEXtreme Competition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06934  
**Abstract:** Since the release of ChatGPT, numerous studies have highlighted the remarkable performance of ChatGPT, which often rivals or even surpasses human capabilities in various tasks and domains. However, this paper presents a contrasting perspective by demonstrating an instance where human performance excels in typical tasks suited for ChatGPT, specifically in the domain of computer programming. We utilize the IEEExtreme Challenge competition as a benchmark, a prestigious, annual international programming contest encompassing a wide range of problems with different complexities. To conduct a thorough evaluation, we selected and executed a diverse set of 102 challenges, drawn from five distinct IEEExtreme editions, using three major programming languages: Python, Java, and C++. Our empirical analysis provides evidence that contrary to popular belief, human programmers maintain a competitive edge over ChatGPT in certain aspects of problem-solving within the programming context. In fact, we found that the average score obtained by ChatGPT on the set of IEEExtreme programming problems is 3.9 to 5.8 times lower than the average human score, depending on the programming language. This paper elaborates on these findings, offering critical insights into the limitations and potential areas of improvement for AI-based language models like ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Cascaded Cross-Attention Networks for Data-Efficient Whole-Slide Image  Classification Using Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06963  
**Abstract:** Whole-Slide Imaging allows for the capturing and digitization of high-resolution images of histological specimen. An automated analysis of such images using deep learning models is therefore of high demand. The transformer architecture has been proposed as a possible candidate for effectively leveraging the high-resolution information. Here, the whole-slide image is partitioned into smaller image patches and feature tokens are extracted from these image patches. However, while the conventional transformer allows for a simultaneous processing of a large set of input tokens, the computational demand scales quadratically with the number of input tokens and thus quadratically with the number of image patches. To address this problem we propose a novel cascaded cross-attention network (CCAN) based on the cross-attention mechanism that scales linearly with the number of extracted patches. Our experiments demonstrate that this architecture is at least on-par with and even outperforms other attention-based state-of-the-art methods on two public datasets: On the use-case of lung cancer (TCGA NSCLC) our model reaches a mean area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUC) of 0.970 $\pm$ 0.008 and on renal cancer (TCGA RCC) reaches a mean AUC of 0.985 $\pm$ 0.004. Furthermore, we show that our proposed model is efficient in low-data regimes, making it a promising approach for analyzing whole-slide images in resource-limited settings. To foster research in this direction, we make our code publicly available on GitHub: XXX. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Large Language Models Can Be Used To Effectively Scale Spear Phishing  Campaigns  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06972  
**Abstract:** Recent progress in artificial intelligence (AI), particularly in the domain of large language models (LLMs), has resulted in powerful and versatile dual-use systems. Indeed, cognition can be put towards a wide variety of tasks, some of which can result in harm. This study investigates how LLMs can be used for spear phishing, a prevalent form of cybercrime that involves manipulating targets into divulging sensitive information. I first explore LLMs' ability to assist with the reconnaissance and message generation stages of a successful spear phishing attack, where I find that advanced LLMs are capable of meaningfully improving cybercriminals' efficiency during these stages. Next, I conduct an empirical test by creating unique spear phishing messages for over 600 British Members of Parliament using OpenAI's GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models. My findings reveal that these messages are not only realistic but also remarkably cost-effective, as each email cost only a fraction of a cent to generate. Next, I demonstrate how basic prompt engineering can circumvent safeguards installed in LLMs by the reinforcement learning from human feedback fine-tuning process, highlighting the need for more robust governance interventions aimed at mitigating misuse. To address these evolving risks, I propose two potential solutions: structured access schemes, such as application programming interfaces, and LLM-based defensive systems. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Recommendation as Instruction Following: A Large Language Model  Empowered Recommendation Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07001  
**Abstract:** In the past decades, recommender systems have attracted much attention in both research and industry communities, and a large number of studies have been devoted to developing effective recommendation models. Basically speaking, these models mainly learn the underlying user preference from historical behavior data, and then estimate the user-item matching relationships for recommendations. Inspired by the recent progress on large language models (LLMs), we take a different approach to developing the recommendation models, considering recommendation as instruction following by LLMs. The key idea is that the preferences or needs of a user can be expressed in natural language descriptions (called instructions), so that LLMs can understand and further execute the instruction for fulfilling the recommendation task. Instead of using public APIs of LLMs, we instruction tune an open-source LLM (3B Flan-T5-XL), in order to better adapt LLMs to recommender systems. For this purpose, we first design a general instruction format for describing the preference, intention, task form and context of a user in natural language. Then we manually design 39 instruction templates and automatically generate a large amount of user-personalized instruction data (252K instructions) with varying types of preferences and intentions. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, we instantiate the instruction templates into several widely-studied recommendation (or search) tasks, and conduct extensive experiments on these tasks with real-world datasets. Experiment results show that the proposed approach can outperform several competitive baselines, including the powerful GPT-3.5, on these evaluation tasks. Our approach sheds light on developing more user-friendly recommender systems, in which users can freely communicate with the system and obtain more accurate recommendations via natural language instructions. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Exploiting Diffusion Prior for Real-World Image Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07015  
**Abstract:** We present a novel approach to leverage prior knowledge encapsulated in pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models for blind super-resolution (SR). Specifically, by employing our time-aware encoder, we can achieve promising restoration results without altering the pre-trained synthesis model, thereby preserving the generative prior and minimizing training cost. To remedy the loss of fidelity caused by the inherent stochasticity of diffusion models, we introduce a controllable feature wrapping module that allows users to balance quality and fidelity by simply adjusting a scalar value during the inference process. Moreover, we develop a progressive aggregation sampling strategy to overcome the fixed-size constraints of pre-trained diffusion models, enabling adaptation to resolutions of any size. A comprehensive evaluation of our method using both synthetic and real-world benchmarks demonstrates its superiority over current state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** A General-Purpose Multilingual Document Encoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07016  
**Abstract:** Massively multilingual pretrained transformers (MMTs) have tremendously pushed the state of the art on multilingual NLP and cross-lingual transfer of NLP models in particular. While a large body of work leveraged MMTs to mine parallel data and induce bilingual document embeddings, much less effort has been devoted to training general-purpose (massively) multilingual document encoder that can be used for both supervised and unsupervised document-level tasks. In this work, we pretrain a massively multilingual document encoder as a hierarchical transformer model (HMDE) in which a shallow document transformer contextualizes sentence representations produced by a state-of-the-art pretrained multilingual sentence encoder. We leverage Wikipedia as a readily available source of comparable documents for creating training data, and train HMDE by means of a cross-lingual contrastive objective, further exploiting the category hierarchy of Wikipedia for creation of difficult negatives. We evaluate the effectiveness of HMDE in two arguably most common and prominent cross-lingual document-level tasks: (1) cross-lingual transfer for topical document classification and (2) cross-lingual document retrieval. HMDE is significantly more effective than (i) aggregations of segment-based representations and (ii) multilingual Longformer. Crucially, owing to its massively multilingual lower transformer, HMDE successfully generalizes to languages unseen in document-level pretraining. We publicly release our code and models at https://github.com/ogaloglu/pre-training-multilingual-document-encoders . 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** An Inverse Scaling Law for CLIP Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07017  
**Abstract:** CLIP, the first foundation model that connects images and text, has enabled many recent breakthroughs in computer vision. However, its associated training cost is prohibitively high, imposing a significant barrier to its widespread exploration. In this paper, we present a surprising finding that there exists an inverse scaling law for CLIP training, whereby the larger the image/text encoders used, the shorter the sequence length of image/text tokens that can be applied in training. Moreover, we showcase that the strategy for reducing image/text token length plays a crucial role in determining the quality of this scaling law. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** SparseGNV: Generating Novel Views of Indoor Scenes with Sparse Input  Views  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07024  
**Abstract:** We study to generate novel views of indoor scenes given sparse input views. The challenge is to achieve both photorealism and view consistency. We present SparseGNV: a learning framework that incorporates 3D structures and image generative models to generate novel views with three modules. The first module builds a neural point cloud as underlying geometry, providing contextual information and guidance for the target novel view. The second module utilizes a transformer-based network to map the scene context and the guidance into a shared latent space and autoregressively decodes the target view in the form of discrete image tokens. The third module reconstructs the tokens into the image of the target view. SparseGNV is trained across a large indoor scene dataset to learn generalizable priors. Once trained, it can efficiently generate novel views of an unseen indoor scene in a feed-forward manner. We evaluate SparseGNV on both real-world and synthetic indoor scenes and demonstrate that it outperforms state-of-the-art methods based on either neural radiance fields or conditional image generation. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** EfficientViT: Memory Efficient Vision Transformer with Cascaded Group  Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07027  
**Abstract:** Vision transformers have shown great success due to their high model capabilities. However, their remarkable performance is accompanied by heavy computation costs, which makes them unsuitable for real-time applications. In this paper, we propose a family of high-speed vision transformers named EfficientViT. We find that the speed of existing transformer models is commonly bounded by memory inefficient operations, especially the tensor reshaping and element-wise functions in MHSA. Therefore, we design a new building block with a sandwich layout, i.e., using a single memory-bound MHSA between efficient FFN layers, which improves memory efficiency while enhancing channel communication. Moreover, we discover that the attention maps share high similarities across heads, leading to computational redundancy. To address this, we present a cascaded group attention module feeding attention heads with different splits of the full feature, which not only saves computation cost but also improves attention diversity. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate EfficientViT outperforms existing efficient models, striking a good trade-off between speed and accuracy. For instance, our EfficientViT-M5 surpasses MobileNetV3-Large by 1.9% in accuracy, while getting 40.4% and 45.2% higher throughput on Nvidia V100 GPU and Intel Xeon CPU, respectively. Compared to the recent efficient model MobileViT-XXS, EfficientViT-M2 achieves 1.8% superior accuracy, while running 5.8x/3.7x faster on the GPU/CPU, and 7.4x faster when converted to ONNX format. Code and models are available at https://github.com/microsoft/Cream/tree/main/EfficientViT. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Generation of Structurally Realistic Retinal Fundus Images with  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06813  
**Abstract:** We introduce a new technique for generating retinal fundus images that have anatomically accurate vascular structures, using diffusion models. We generate artery/vein masks to create the vascular structure, which we then condition to produce retinal fundus images. The proposed method can generate high-quality images with more realistic vascular structures and can create a diverse range of images based on the strengths of the diffusion model. We present quantitative evaluations that demonstrate the performance improvement using our method for data augmentation on vessel segmentation and artery/vein classification. We also present Turing test results by clinical experts, showing that our generated images are difficult to distinguish with real images. We believe that our method can be applied to construct stand-alone datasets that are irrelevant of patient privacy. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Accurate Surface and Finite Temperature Bulk Properties of Lithium Metal  at Large Scales using Machine Learning Interaction Potentials  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06925  
**Abstract:** The properties of lithium metal are key parameters in the design of lithium ion and lithium metal batteries. They are difficult to probe experimentally due to the high reactivity and low melting point of lithium as well as the microscopic scales at which lithium exists in batteries where it is found to have enhanced strength, with implications for dendrite suppression strategies. Computationally, there is a lack of empirical potentials that are consistently quantitatively accurate across all properties and ab-initio calculations are too costly. In this work, we train Machine Learning Interaction Potentials (MLIPs) on Density Functional Theory (DFT) data to state-of-the-art accuracy in reproducing experimental and ab-initio results across a wide range of simulations at large length and time scales. We accurately predict thermodynamic properties, phonon spectra, temperature dependence of elastic constants and various surface properties inaccessible using DFT. We establish that there exists a Bell-Evans-Polanyi relation correlating the self-adsorption energy and the minimum surface diffusion barrier for high Miller index facets. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Transformers for CT Reconstruction From Monoplanar and Biplanar  Radiographs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.06965  
**Abstract:** Computed Tomography (CT) scans provide detailed and accurate information of internal structures in the body. They are constructed by sending x-rays through the body from different directions and combining this information into a three-dimensional volume. Such volumes can then be used to diagnose a wide range of conditions and allow for volumetric measurements of organs. In this work, we tackle the problem of reconstructing CT images from biplanar x-rays only. X-rays are widely available and even if the CT reconstructed from these radiographs is not a replacement of a complete CT in the diagnostic setting, it might serve to spare the patients from radiation where a CT is only acquired for rough measurements such as determining organ size. We propose a novel method based on the transformer architecture, by framing the underlying task as a language translation problem. Radiographs and CT images are first embedded into latent quantized codebook vectors using two different autoencoder networks. We then train a GPT model, to reconstruct the codebook vectors of the CT image, conditioned on the codebook vectors of the x-rays and show that this approach leads to realistic looking images. To encourage further research in this direction, we make our code publicly available on GitHub: XXX. 

