**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Davinci the Dualist: the mind-body divide in large language models and  in human learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07667  
**Abstract:** A large literature suggests that people are intuitive Dualists--they consider the mind ethereal, distinct from the body. Past research also shows that Dualism emerges, in part, via learning (e.g., Barlev & Shtulman, 2021). But whether learning is sufficient to give rise to Dualism is unknown.The evidence from human learners does address this question because humans are endowed not only with general learning capacities but also with core knowledge capacities. And recent results suggest that core knowledge begets Dualism (Berent, Theodore & Valencia, 2021; Berent, 2023). To evaluate the role of learning, here, we probe for a mind-body divide in Davinci--a large language model (LLM) that is devoid of any innate core knowledge. We show that Davinci still leans towards Dualism, and that this bias increases systematically with the learner's inductive potential. Thus, davinci (a GPT-3 model) exhibits mild Dualist tendencies, whereas its descendent, text-davinci-003 (a GPT-3.5 model), shows a full-blown bias. It selectively considers thoughts (epistemic states) as disembodied--as unlikely to show up in the body (in the brain), but not in its absence (after death). While Davinci's performance is constrained by its syntactic limitations, and it differs from humans, its Dualist bias is robust. These results demonstrate that the mind-body divide is partly learnable from experience.They also show how, as LLM's are exposed to human narratives, they induce not only human knowledge but also human biases. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** LatentPINNs: Generative physics-informed neural networks via a latent  representation learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07671  
**Abstract:** Physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) are promising to replace conventional partial differential equation (PDE) solvers by offering more accurate and flexible PDE solutions. However, they are hampered by the relatively slow convergence and the need to perform additional, potentially expensive, training for different PDE parameters. To solve this limitation, we introduce latentPINN, a framework that utilizes latent representations of the PDE parameters as additional (to the coordinates) inputs into PINNs and allows for training over the distribution of these parameters. Motivated by the recent progress on generative models, we promote the use of latent diffusion models to learn compressed latent representations of the PDE parameters distribution and act as input parameters to NN functional solutions. We use a two-stage training scheme in which the first stage, we learn the latent representations for the distribution of PDE parameters. In the second stage, we train a physics-informed neural network over inputs given by randomly drawn samples from the coordinate space within the solution domain and samples from the learned latent representation of the PDE parameters. We test the approach on a class of level set equations given by the nonlinear Eikonal equation. We specifically share results corresponding to three different sets of Eikonal parameters (velocity models). The proposed method performs well on new phase velocity models without the need for any additional training. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Zero-shot racially balanced dataset generation using an existing biased  StyleGAN2  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07710  
**Abstract:** Facial recognition systems have made significant strides thanks to data-heavy deep learning models, but these models rely on large privacy-sensitive datasets. Unfortunately, many of these datasets lack diversity in terms of ethnicity and demographics, which can lead to biased models that can have serious societal and security implications. To address these issues, we propose a methodology that leverages the biased generative model StyleGAN2 to create demographically diverse images of synthetic individuals. The synthetic dataset is created using a novel evolutionary search algorithm that targets specific demographic groups. By training face recognition models with the resulting balanced dataset containing 50,000 identities per race (13.5 million images in total), we can improve their performance and minimize biases that might have been present in a model trained on a real dataset. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Learning to Reason over Scene Graphs: A Case Study of Finetuning GPT-2  into a Robot Language Model for Grounded Task Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07716  
**Abstract:** Long-horizon task planning is essential for the development of intelligent assistive and service robots. In this work, we investigate the applicability of a smaller class of large language models (LLMs), specifically GPT-2, in robotic task planning by learning to decompose tasks into subgoal specifications for a planner to execute sequentially. Our method grounds the input of the LLM on the domain that is represented as a scene graph, enabling it to translate human requests into executable robot plans, thereby learning to reason over long-horizon tasks, as encountered in the ALFRED benchmark. We compare our approach with classical planning and baseline methods to examine the applicability and generalizability of LLM-based planners. Our findings suggest that the knowledge stored in an LLM can be effectively grounded to perform long-horizon task planning, demonstrating the promising potential for the future application of neuro-symbolic planning methods in robotics. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** TinyStories: How Small Can Language Models Be and Still Speak Coherent  English?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07759  
**Abstract:** Language models (LMs) are powerful tools for natural language processing, but they often struggle to produce coherent and fluent text when they are small. Models with around 125M parameters such as GPT-Neo (small) or GPT-2 (small) can rarely generate coherent and consistent English text beyond a few words even after extensive training. This raises the question of whether the emergence of the ability to produce coherent English text only occurs at larger scales (with hundreds of millions of parameters or more) and complex architectures (with many layers of global attention). 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Knowledge Authoring for Rules and Actions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07763  
**Abstract:** Knowledge representation and reasoning (KRR) systems describe and reason with complex concepts and relations in the form of facts and rules. Unfortunately, wide deployment of KRR systems runs into the problem that domain experts have great difficulty constructing correct logical representations of their domain knowledge. Knowledge engineers can help with this construction process, but there is a deficit of such specialists. The earlier Knowledge Authoring Logic Machine (KALM) based on Controlled Natural Language (CNL) was shown to have very high accuracy for authoring facts and questions. More recently, KALMFL, a successor of KALM, replaced CNL with factual English, which is much less restrictive and requires very little training from users. However, KALMFL has limitations in representing certain types of knowledge, such as authoring rules for multi-step reasoning or understanding actions with timestamps. To address these limitations, we propose KALMRA to enable authoring of rules and actions. Our evaluation using the UTI guidelines benchmark shows that KALMRA achieves a high level of correctness (100%) on rule authoring. When used for authoring and reasoning with actions, KALMRA achieves more than 99.3% correctness on the bAbI benchmark, demonstrating its effectiveness in more sophisticated KRR jobs. Finally, we illustrate the logical reasoning capabilities of KALMRA by drawing attention to the problems faced by the recently made famous AI, ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Lightweight Delivery Detection on Doorbell Cameras  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07812  
**Abstract:** Despite recent advances in video-based action recognition and robust spatio-temporal modeling, most of the proposed approaches rely on the abundance of computational resources to afford running huge and computation-intensive convolutional or transformer-based neural networks to obtain satisfactory results. This limits the deployment of such models on edge devices with limited power and computing resources. In this work we investigate an important smart home application, video based delivery detection, and present a simple and lightweight pipeline for this task that can run on resource-constrained doorbell cameras. Our proposed pipeline relies on motion cues to generate a set of coarse activity proposals followed by their classification with a mobile-friendly 3DCNN network. For training we design a novel semi-supervised attention module that helps the network to learn robust spatio-temporal features and adopt an evidence-based optimization objective that allows for quantifying the uncertainty of predictions made by the network. Experimental results on our curated delivery dataset shows the significant effectiveness of our pipeline compared to alternatives and highlights the benefits of our training phase novelties to achieve free and considerable inference-time performance gains. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** CEMFormer: Learning to Predict Driver Intentions from In-Cabin and  External Cameras via Spatial-Temporal Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07840  
**Abstract:** Driver intention prediction seeks to anticipate drivers' actions by analyzing their behaviors with respect to surrounding traffic environments. Existing approaches primarily focus on late-fusion techniques, and neglect the importance of maintaining consistency between predictions and prevailing driving contexts. In this paper, we introduce a new framework called Cross-View Episodic Memory Transformer (CEMFormer), which employs spatio-temporal transformers to learn unified memory representations for an improved driver intention prediction. Specifically, we develop a spatial-temporal encoder to integrate information from both in-cabin and external camera views, along with episodic memory representations to continuously fuse historical data. Furthermore, we propose a novel context-consistency loss that incorporates driving context as an auxiliary supervision signal to improve prediction performance. Comprehensive experiments on the Brain4Cars dataset demonstrate that CEMFormer consistently outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in driver intention prediction. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Stackelberg Decision Transformer for Asynchronous Action Coordination in  Multi-Agent Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07856  
**Abstract:** Asynchronous action coordination presents a pervasive challenge in Multi-Agent Systems (MAS), which can be represented as a Stackelberg game (SG). However, the scalability of existing Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) methods based on SG is severely constrained by network structures or environmental limitations. To address this issue, we propose the Stackelberg Decision Transformer (STEER), a heuristic approach that resolves the difficulties of hierarchical coordination among agents. STEER efficiently manages decision-making processes in both spatial and temporal contexts by incorporating the hierarchical decision structure of SG, the modeling capability of autoregressive sequence models, and the exploratory learning methodology of MARL. Our research contributes to the development of an effective and adaptable asynchronous action coordination method that can be widely applied to various task types and environmental configurations in MAS. Experimental results demonstrate that our method can converge to Stackelberg equilibrium solutions and outperforms other existing methods in complex scenarios. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Bridging History with AI A Comparative Evaluation of GPT 3.5, GPT4, and  GoogleBARD in Predictive Accuracy and Fact Checking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07868  
**Abstract:** The rapid proliferation of information in the digital era underscores the importance of accurate historical representation and interpretation. While artificial intelligence has shown promise in various fields, its potential for historical fact-checking and gap-filling remains largely untapped. This study evaluates the performance of three large language models LLMs GPT 3.5, GPT 4, and GoogleBARD in the context of predicting and verifying historical events based on given data. A novel metric, Distance to Reality (DTR), is introduced to assess the models' outputs against established historical facts. The results reveal a substantial potential for AI in historical studies, with GPT 4 demonstrating superior performance. This paper underscores the need for further research into AI's role in enriching our understanding of the past and bridging historical knowledge gaps. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** FoundWright: A System to Help People Re-find Pages from Their  Web-history  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07930  
**Abstract:** Re-finding information is an essential activity, however, it can be difficult when people struggle to express what they are looking for. Through a need-finding survey, we first seek opportunities for improving re-finding experiences, and explore one of these opportunities by implementing the FoundWright system. The system leverages recent advances in language transformer models to expand people's ability to express what they are looking for, through the interactive creation and manipulation of concepts contained within documents. We use FoundWright as a design probe to understand (1) how people create and use concepts, (2) how this expanded ability helps re-finding, and (3) how people engage and collaborate with FoundWright's machine learning support. Our probe reveals that this expanded way of expressing re-finding goals helps people with the task, by complementing traditional searching and browsing. Finally, we present insights and recommendations for future work aiming at developing systems to support re-finding. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** GSB: Group Superposition Binarization for Vision Transformer with  Limited Training Samples  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07931  
**Abstract:** Affected by the massive amount of parameters, ViT usually suffers from serious overfitting problems with a relatively limited number of training samples. In addition, ViT generally demands heavy computing resources, which limit its deployment on resource-constrained devices. As a type of model-compression method,model binarization is potentially a good choice to solve the above problems. Compared with the full-precision one, the model with the binarization method replaces complex tensor multiplication with simple bit-wise binary operations and represents full-precision model parameters and activations with only 1-bit ones, which potentially solves the problem of model size and computational complexity, respectively. In this paper, we find that the decline of the accuracy of the binary ViT model is mainly due to the information loss of the Attention module and the Value vector. Therefore, we propose a novel model binarization technique, called Group Superposition Binarization (GSB), to deal with these issues. Furthermore, in order to further improve the performance of the binarization model, we have investigated the gradient calculation procedure in the binarization process and derived more proper gradient calculation equations for GSB to reduce the influence of gradient mismatch. Then, the knowledge distillation technique is introduced to alleviate the performance degradation caused by model binarization. Experiments on three datasets with limited numbers of training samples demonstrate that the proposed GSB model achieves state-of-the-art performance among the binary quantization schemes and exceeds its full-precision counterpart on some indicators. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** APNet: An All-Frame-Level Neural Vocoder Incorporating Direct Prediction  of Amplitude and Phase Spectra  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07952  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel neural vocoder named APNet which reconstructs speech waveforms from acoustic features by predicting amplitude and phase spectra directly. The APNet vocoder is composed of an amplitude spectrum predictor (ASP) and a phase spectrum predictor (PSP). The ASP is a residual convolution network which predicts frame-level log amplitude spectra from acoustic features. The PSP also adopts a residual convolution network using acoustic features as input, then passes the output of this network through two parallel linear convolution layers respectively, and finally integrates into a phase calculation formula to estimate frame-level phase spectra. Finally, the outputs of ASP and PSP are combined to reconstruct speech waveforms by inverse short-time Fourier transform (ISTFT). All operations of the ASP and PSP are performed at the frame level. We train the ASP and PSP jointly and define multilevel loss functions based on amplitude mean square error, phase anti-wrapping error, short-time spectral inconsistency error and time domain reconstruction error. Experimental results show that our proposed APNet vocoder achieves an approximately 8x faster inference speed than HiFi-GAN v1 on a CPU due to the all-frame-level operations, while its synthesized speech quality is comparable to HiFi-GAN v1. The synthesized speech quality of the APNet vocoder is also better than that of several equally efficient models. Ablation experiments also confirm that the proposed parallel phase estimation architecture is essential to phase modeling and the proposed loss functions are helpful for improving the synthesized speech quality. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** GPT-Sentinel: Distinguishing Human and ChatGPT Generated Content  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07969  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel approach for detecting ChatGPT-generated vs. human-written text using language models. To this end, we first collected and released a pre-processed dataset named OpenGPTText, which consists of rephrased content generated using ChatGPT. We then designed, implemented, and trained two different models for text classification, using Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach (RoBERTa) and Text-to-Text Transfer Transformer (T5), respectively. Our models achieved remarkable results, with an accuracy of over 97% on the test dataset, as evaluated through various metrics. Furthermore, we conducted an interpretability study to showcase our model's ability to extract and differentiate key features between human-written and ChatGPT-generated text. Our findings provide important insights into the effective use of language models to detect generated text. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Investigating Emergent Goal-Like Behaviour in Large Language Models  Using Experimental Economics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07970  
**Abstract:** In this study, we investigate the capacity of large language models (LLMs), specifically GPT-3.5, to operationalise natural language descriptions of cooperative, competitive, altruistic, and self-interested behavior in social dilemmas. Our focus is on the iterated Prisoner's Dilemma, a classic example of a non-zero-sum interaction, but our broader research program encompasses a range of experimental economics scenarios, including the ultimatum game, dictator game, and public goods game. Using a within-subject experimental design, we instantiated LLM-generated agents with various prompts that conveyed different cooperative and competitive stances. We then assessed the agents' level of cooperation in the iterated Prisoner's Dilemma, taking into account their responsiveness to the cooperative or defection actions of their partners. Our results provide evidence that LLMs can translate natural language descriptions of altruism and selfishness into appropriate behaviour to some extent, but exhibit limitations in adapting their behavior based on conditioned reciprocity. The observed pattern of increased cooperation with defectors and decreased cooperation with cooperators highlights potential constraints in the LLM's ability to generalize its knowledge about human behavior in social dilemmas. We call upon the research community to further explore the factors contributing to the emergent behavior of LLM-generated agents in a wider array of social dilemmas, examining the impact of model architecture, training parameters, and various partner strategies on agent behavior. As more advanced LLMs like GPT-4 become available, it is crucial to investigate whether they exhibit similar limitations or are capable of more nuanced cooperative behaviors, ultimately fostering the development of AI systems that better align with human values and social norms. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** On the Computational Cost of Stochastic Security  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07973  
**Abstract:** We investigate whether long-run persistent chain Monte Carlo simulation of Langevin dynamics improves the quality of the representations achieved by energy-based models (EBM). We consider a scheme wherein Monte Carlo simulation of a diffusion process using a trained EBM is used to improve the adversarial robustness and the calibration score of an independent classifier network. Our results show that increasing the computational budget of Gibbs sampling in persistent contrastive divergence improves the calibration and adversarial robustness of the model, elucidating the practical merit of realizing new quantum and classical hardware and software for efficient Gibbs sampling from continuous energy potentials. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** A Two-Stage Real Image Deraining Method for GT-RAIN Challenge CVPR 2023  Workshop UG$^{\textbf{2}}$+ Track 3  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07979  
**Abstract:** In this technical report, we briefly introduce the solution of our team HUST\li VIE for GT-Rain Challenge in CVPR 2023 UG$^{2}$+ Track 3. In this task, we propose an efficient two-stage framework to reconstruct a clear image from rainy frames. Firstly, a low-rank based video deraining method is utilized to generate pseudo GT, which fully takes the advantage of multi and aligned rainy frames. Secondly, a transformer-based single image deraining network Uformer is implemented to pre-train on large real rain dataset and then fine-tuned on pseudo GT to further improve image restoration. Moreover, in terms of visual pleasing effect, a comprehensive image processor module is utilized at the end of pipeline. Our overall framework is elaborately designed and able to handle both heavy rainy and foggy sequences provided in the final testing phase. Finally, we rank 1st on the average structural similarity (SSIM) and rank 2nd on the average peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR). Our code is available at https://github.com/yunguo224/UG2_Deraining. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Beyond the Safeguards: Exploring the Security Risks of ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08005  
**Abstract:** The increasing popularity of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT has led to growing concerns about their safety, security risks, and ethical implications. This paper aims to provide an overview of the different types of security risks associated with ChatGPT, including malicious text and code generation, private data disclosure, fraudulent services, information gathering, and producing unethical content. We present an empirical study examining the effectiveness of ChatGPT's content filters and explore potential ways to bypass these safeguards, demonstrating the ethical implications and security risks that persist in LLMs even when protections are in place. Based on a qualitative analysis of the security implications, we discuss potential strategies to mitigate these risks and inform researchers, policymakers, and industry professionals about the complex security challenges posed by LLMs like ChatGPT. This study contributes to the ongoing discussion on the ethical and security implications of LLMs, underscoring the need for continued research in this area. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** On enhancing the robustness of Vision Transformers: Defensive Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08031  
**Abstract:** Privacy and confidentiality of medical data are of utmost importance in healthcare settings. ViTs, the SOTA vision model, rely on large amounts of patient data for training, which raises concerns about data security and the potential for unauthorized access. Adversaries may exploit vulnerabilities in ViTs to extract sensitive patient information and compromising patient privacy. This work address these vulnerabilities to ensure the trustworthiness and reliability of ViTs in medical applications. In this work, we introduced a defensive diffusion technique as an adversarial purifier to eliminate adversarial noise introduced by attackers in the original image. By utilizing the denoising capabilities of the diffusion model, we employ a reverse diffusion process to effectively eliminate the adversarial noise from the attack sample, resulting in a cleaner image that is then fed into the ViT blocks. Our findings demonstrate the effectiveness of the diffusion model in eliminating attack-agnostic adversarial noise from images. Additionally, we propose combining knowledge distillation with our framework to obtain a lightweight student model that is both computationally efficient and robust against gray box attacks. Comparison of our method with a SOTA baseline method, SEViT, shows that our work is able to outperform the baseline. Extensive experiments conducted on a publicly available Tuberculosis X-ray dataset validate the computational efficiency and improved robustness achieved by our proposed architecture. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** HiPerformer: Hierarchically Permutation-Equivariant Transformer for Time  Series Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08073  
**Abstract:** It is imperative to discern the relationships between multiple time series for accurate forecasting. In particular, for stock prices, components are often divided into groups with the same characteristics, and a model that extracts relationships consistent with this group structure should be effective. Thus, we propose the concept of hierarchical permutation-equivariance, focusing on index swapping of components within and among groups, to design a model that considers this group structure. When the prediction model has hierarchical permutation-equivariance, the prediction is consistent with the group relationships of the components. Therefore, we propose a hierarchically permutation-equivariant model that considers both the relationship among components in the same group and the relationship among groups. The experiments conducted on real-world data demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Meta-DM: Applications of Diffusion Models on Few-Shot Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08092  
**Abstract:** In the field of few-shot learning (FSL), extensive research has focused on improving network structures and training strategies. However, the role of data processing modules has not been fully explored. Therefore, in this paper, we propose Meta-DM, a generalized data processing module for FSL problems based on diffusion models. Meta-DM is a simple yet effective module that can be easily integrated with existing FSL methods, leading to significant performance improvements in both supervised and unsupervised settings. We provide a theoretical analysis of Meta-DM and evaluate its performance on several algorithms. Our experiments show that combining Meta-DM with certain methods achieves state-of-the-art results. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Towards Understanding and Improving Knowledge Distillation for Neural  Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08096  
**Abstract:** Knowledge distillation (KD) is a promising technique for model compression in neural machine translation. However, where the knowledge hides in KD is still not clear, which may hinder the development of KD. In this work, we first unravel this mystery from an empirical perspective and show that the knowledge comes from the top-1 predictions of teachers, which also helps us build a potential connection between word- and sequence-level KD. Further, we point out two inherent issues in vanilla word-level KD based on this finding. Firstly, the current objective of KD spreads its focus to whole distributions to learn the knowledge, yet lacks special treatment on the most crucial top-1 information. Secondly, the knowledge is largely covered by the golden information due to the fact that most top-1 predictions of teachers overlap with ground-truth tokens, which further restricts the potential of KD. To address these issues, we propose a novel method named \textbf{T}op-1 \textbf{I}nformation \textbf{E}nhanced \textbf{K}nowledge \textbf{D}istillation (TIE-KD). Specifically, we design a hierarchical ranking loss to enforce the learning of the top-1 information from the teacher. Additionally, we develop an iterative KD procedure to infuse more additional knowledge by distilling on the data without ground-truth targets. Experiments on WMT'14 English-German, WMT'14 English-French and WMT'16 English-Romanian demonstrate that our method can respectively boost Transformer$_{base}$ students by +1.04, +0.60 and +1.11 BLEU scores and significantly outperform the vanilla word-level KD baseline. Besides, our method shows higher generalizability on different teacher-student capacity gaps than existing KD techniques. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Self-supervised Neural Factor Analysis for Disentangling Utterance-level  Speech Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08099  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised learning (SSL) speech models such as wav2vec and HuBERT have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on automatic speech recognition (ASR) and proved to be extremely useful in low label-resource settings. However, the success of SSL models has yet to transfer to utterance-level tasks such as speaker, emotion, and language recognition, which still require supervised fine-tuning of the SSL models to obtain good performance. We argue that the problem is caused by the lack of disentangled representations and an utterance-level learning objective for these tasks. Inspired by how HuBERT uses clustering to discover hidden acoustic units, we formulate a factor analysis (FA) model that uses the discovered hidden acoustic units to align the SSL features. The underlying utterance-level representations are disentangled from the content of speech using probabilistic inference on the aligned features. Furthermore, the variational lower bound derived from the FA model provides an utterance-level objective, allowing error gradients to be backpropagated to the Transformer layers to learn highly discriminative acoustic units. When used in conjunction with HuBERT's masked prediction training, our models outperform the current best model, WavLM, on all utterance-level non-semantic tasks on the SUPERB benchmark with only 20% of labeled data. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Croatian Film Review Dataset (Cro-FiReDa): A Sentiment Annotated Dataset  of Film Reviews  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08173  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces Cro-FiReDa, a sentiment- annotated dataset for Croatian in the domain of movie reviews. The dataset, which contains over 10,000 sentences, has been annotated at the sentence level. In addition to presenting the overall annotation process, we also present benchmark results based on the transformer- based fine-tuning approach 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Manipulating Visually-aware Federated Recommender Systems and Its  Countermeasures  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08183  
**Abstract:** Federated recommender systems (FedRecs) have been widely explored recently due to their ability to protect user data privacy. In FedRecs, a central server collaboratively learns recommendation models by sharing model public parameters with clients, thereby offering a privacy-preserving solution. Unfortunately, the exposure of model parameters leaves a backdoor for adversaries to manipulate FedRecs. Existing works about FedRec security already reveal that items can easily be promoted by malicious users via model poisoning attacks, but all of them mainly focus on FedRecs with only collaborative information (i.e., user-item interactions). We argue that these attacks are effective because of the data sparsity of collaborative signals. In practice, auxiliary information, such as products' visual descriptions, is used to alleviate collaborative filtering data's sparsity. Therefore, when incorporating visual information in FedRecs, all existing model poisoning attacks' effectiveness becomes questionable. In this paper, we conduct extensive experiments to verify that incorporating visual information can beat existing state-of-the-art attacks in reasonable settings. However, since visual information is usually provided by external sources, simply including it will create new security problems. Specifically, we propose a new kind of poisoning attack for visually-aware FedRecs, namely image poisoning attacks, where adversaries can gradually modify the uploaded image to manipulate item ranks during FedRecs' training process. Furthermore, we reveal that the potential collaboration between image poisoning attacks and model poisoning attacks will make visually-aware FedRecs more vulnerable to being manipulated. To safely use visual information, we employ a diffusion model in visually-aware FedRecs to purify each uploaded image and detect the adversarial images. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** TSGN: Temporal Scene Graph Neural Networks with Projected Vectorized  Representation for Multi-Agent Motion Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08190  
**Abstract:** Predicting future motions of nearby agents is essential for an autonomous vehicle to take safe and effective actions. In this paper, we propose TSGN, a framework using Temporal Scene Graph Neural Networks with projected vectorized representations for multi-agent trajectory prediction. Projected vectorized representation models the traffic scene as a graph which is constructed by a set of vectors. These vectors represent agents, road network, and their spatial relative relationships. All relative features under this representation are both translationand rotation-invariant. Based on this representation, TSGN captures the spatial-temporal features across agents, road network, interactions among them, and temporal dependencies of temporal traffic scenes. TSGN can predict multimodal future trajectories for all agents simultaneously, plausibly, and accurately. Meanwhile, we propose a Hierarchical Lane Transformer for capturing interactions between agents and road network, which filters the surrounding road network and only keeps the most probable lane segments which could have an impact on the future behavior of the target agent. Without sacrificing the prediction performance, this greatly reduces the computational burden. Experiments show TSGN achieves state-of-the-art performance on the Argoverse motion forecasting benchmar. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Diffusion Models for Imperceptible and Transferable Adversarial Attack  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08192  
**Abstract:** Many existing adversarial attacks generate $L_p$-norm perturbations on image RGB space. Despite some achievements in transferability and attack success rate, the crafted adversarial examples are easily perceived by human eyes. Towards visual imperceptibility, some recent works explore unrestricted attacks without $L_p$-norm constraints, yet lacking transferability of attacking black-box models. In this work, we propose a novel imperceptible and transferable attack by leveraging both the generative and discriminative power of diffusion models. Specifically, instead of direct manipulation in pixel space, we craft perturbations in latent space of diffusion models. Combined with well-designed content-preserving structures, we can generate human-insensitive perturbations embedded with semantic clues. For better transferability, we further "deceive" the diffusion model which can be viewed as an additional recognition surrogate, by distracting its attention away from the target regions. To our knowledge, our proposed method, DiffAttack, is the first that introduces diffusion models into adversarial attack field. Extensive experiments on various model structures (including CNNs, Transformers, MLPs) and defense methods have demonstrated our superiority over other attack methods. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning for Medical Image Analysis: The Missed  Opportunity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08252  
**Abstract:** We present a comprehensive evaluation of Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) techniques for diverse medical image analysis tasks. PEFT is increasingly exploited as a valuable approach for knowledge transfer from pre-trained models in natural language processing, vision, speech, and cross-modal tasks, such as vision-language and text-to-image generation. However, its application in medical image analysis remains relatively unexplored. As foundation models are increasingly exploited in the medical domain, it is crucial to investigate and comparatively assess various strategies for knowledge transfer that can bolster a range of downstream tasks. Our study, the first of its kind (to the best of our knowledge), evaluates 16 distinct PEFT methodologies proposed for convolutional and transformer-based networks, focusing on image classification and text-to-image generation tasks across six medical datasets ranging in size, modality, and complexity. Through a battery of more than 600 controlled experiments, we demonstrate performance gains of up to 22% under certain scenarios and demonstrate the efficacy of PEFT for medical text-to-image generation. Further, we reveal the instances where PEFT methods particularly dominate over conventional fine-tuning approaches by studying their relationship with downstream data volume. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** MatSci-NLP: Evaluating Scientific Language Models on Materials Science  Language Tasks Using Text-to-Schema Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08264  
**Abstract:** We present MatSci-NLP, a natural language benchmark for evaluating the performance of natural language processing (NLP) models on materials science text. We construct the benchmark from publicly available materials science text data to encompass seven different NLP tasks, including conventional NLP tasks like named entity recognition and relation classification, as well as NLP tasks specific to materials science, such as synthesis action retrieval which relates to creating synthesis procedures for materials. We study various BERT-based models pretrained on different scientific text corpora on MatSci-NLP to understand the impact of pretraining strategies on understanding materials science text. Given the scarcity of high-quality annotated data in the materials science domain, we perform our fine-tuning experiments with limited training data to encourage the generalize across MatSci-NLP tasks. Our experiments in this low-resource training setting show that language models pretrained on scientific text outperform BERT trained on general text. MatBERT, a model pretrained specifically on materials science journals, generally performs best for most tasks. Moreover, we propose a unified text-to-schema for multitask learning on \benchmark and compare its performance with traditional fine-tuning methods. In our analysis of different training methods, we find that our proposed text-to-schema methods inspired by question-answering consistently outperform single and multitask NLP fine-tuning methods. The code and datasets are publicly available at \url{https://github.com/BangLab-UdeM-Mila/NLP4MatSci-ACL23}. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Local Convergence of Gradient Descent-Ascent for Training Generative  Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08277  
**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are a popular formulation to train generative models for complex high dimensional data. The standard method for training GANs involves a gradient descent-ascent (GDA) procedure on a minimax optimization problem. This procedure is hard to analyze in general due to the nonlinear nature of the dynamics. We study the local dynamics of GDA for training a GAN with a kernel-based discriminator. This convergence analysis is based on a linearization of a non-linear dynamical system that describes the GDA iterations, under an \textit{isolated points model} assumption from [Becker et al. 2022]. Our analysis brings out the effect of the learning rates, regularization, and the bandwidth of the kernel discriminator, on the local convergence rate of GDA. Importantly, we show phase transitions that indicate when the system converges, oscillates, or diverges. We also provide numerical simulations that verify our claims. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning with Layer Pruning on Medical Report  Summarization and Medical Dialogue Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08285  
**Abstract:** The increasing size of language models raises great research interests in parameter-efficient fine-tuning (e.g. Adapter, LoRA and prompt tuning) that freezes the pre-trained model, and injects small-scale trainable parameters for multiple downstream tasks. To further enhance the efficiency of fine-tuning, we propose a framework that integrates LoRA and structured layer pruning. In addition, based on MIMIC-IV-Note, we create two deidentified medical report summarization datasets. Further, We validate the integrated framework on the proposed two datasets and two medical dialogue datasets. By tuning 0.6% parameters of the original model and pruning over 30% Transformer-layers, the framework can speed up 100% of the training phase and reduce 50% of GPU memory usage, while preserving over 92% generation qualities on free-text sequence-to-sequence tasks. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** A Language Model of Java Methods with Train/Test Deduplication  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08286  
**Abstract:** This tool demonstration presents a research toolkit for a language model of Java source code. The target audience includes researchers studying problems at the granularity level of subroutines, statements, or variables in Java. In contrast to many existing language models, we prioritize features for researchers including an open and easily-searchable training set, a held out test set with different levels of deduplication from the training set, infrastructure for deduplicating new examples, and an implementation platform suitable for execution on equipment accessible to a relatively modest budget. Our model is a GPT2-like architecture with 350m parameters. Our training set includes 52m Java methods (9b tokens) and 13m StackOverflow threads (10.5b tokens). To improve accessibility of research to more members of the community, we limit local resource requirements to GPUs with 16GB video memory. We provide a test set of held out Java methods that include descriptive comments, including the entire Java projects for those methods. We also provide deduplication tools using precomputed hash tables at various similarity thresholds to help researchers ensure that their own test examples are not in the training set. We make all our tools and data open source and available via Huggingface and Github. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Identity-Preserving Talking Face Generation with Landmark and Appearance  Priors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08293  
**Abstract:** Generating talking face videos from audio attracts lots of research interest. A few person-specific methods can generate vivid videos but require the target speaker's videos for training or fine-tuning. Existing person-generic methods have difficulty in generating realistic and lip-synced videos while preserving identity information. To tackle this problem, we propose a two-stage framework consisting of audio-to-landmark generation and landmark-to-video rendering procedures. First, we devise a novel Transformer-based landmark generator to infer lip and jaw landmarks from the audio. Prior landmark characteristics of the speaker's face are employed to make the generated landmarks coincide with the facial outline of the speaker. Then, a video rendering model is built to translate the generated landmarks into face images. During this stage, prior appearance information is extracted from the lower-half occluded target face and static reference images, which helps generate realistic and identity-preserving visual content. For effectively exploring the prior information of static reference images, we align static reference images with the target face's pose and expression based on motion fields. Moreover, auditory features are reused to guarantee that the generated face images are well synchronized with the audio. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can produce more realistic, lip-synced, and identity-preserving videos than existing person-generic talking face generation methods. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** C-Eval: A Multi-Level Multi-Discipline Chinese Evaluation Suite for  Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08322  
**Abstract:** New NLP benchmarks are urgently needed to align with the rapid development of large language models (LLMs). We present C-Eval, the first comprehensive Chinese evaluation suite designed to assess advanced knowledge and reasoning abilities of foundation models in a Chinese context. C-Eval comprises multiple-choice questions across four difficulty levels: middle school, high school, college, and professional. The questions span 52 diverse disciplines, ranging from humanities to science and engineering. C-Eval is accompanied by C-Eval Hard, a subset of very challenging subjects in C-Eval that requires advanced reasoning abilities to solve. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the most advanced LLMs on C-Eval, including both English- and Chinese-oriented models. Results indicate that only GPT-4 could achieve an average accuracy of over 60%, suggesting that there is still significant room for improvement for current LLMs. We anticipate C-Eval will help analyze important strengths and shortcomings of foundation models, and foster their development and growth for Chinese users. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Using LLM-assisted Annotation for Corpus Linguistics: A Case Study of  Local Grammar Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08339  
**Abstract:** Chatbots based on Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown strong capabilities in language understanding. In this study, we explore the potential of LLMs in assisting corpus-based linguistic studies through automatic annotation of texts with specific categories of linguistic information. Specifically, we examined to what extent LLMs understand the functional elements constituting the speech act of apology from a local grammar perspective, by comparing the performance of ChatGPT (powered by GPT-3.5), Bing chatbot (powered by GPT-4), and a human coder in the annotation task. The results demonstrate that Bing chatbot significantly outperformed ChatGPT in the task. Compared to human annotator, the overall performance of Bing chatbot was slightly less satisfactory. However, it already achieved high F1 scores: 99.95% for the tag of APOLOGISING, 91.91% for REASON, 95.35% for APOLOGISER, 89.74% for APOLOGISEE, and 96.47% for INTENSIFIER. Therefore, we propose that LLM-assisted annotation is a promising automated approach for corpus studies. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** KEPR: Knowledge Enhancement and Plausibility Ranking for Generative  Commonsense Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08347  
**Abstract:** Generative commonsense question answering (GenCQA) is a task of automatically generating a list of answers given a question. The answer list is required to cover all reasonable answers. This presents the considerable challenges of producing diverse answers and ranking them properly. Incorporating a variety of closely-related background knowledge into the encoding of questions enables the generation of different answers. Meanwhile, learning to distinguish positive answers from negative ones potentially enhances the probabilistic estimation of plausibility, and accordingly, the plausibility-based ranking. Therefore, we propose a Knowledge Enhancement and Plausibility Ranking (KEPR) approach grounded on the Generate-Then-Rank pipeline architecture. Specifically, we expand questions in terms of Wiktionary commonsense knowledge of keywords, and reformulate them with normalized patterns. Dense passage retrieval is utilized for capturing relevant knowledge, and different PLM-based (BART, GPT2 and T5) networks are used for generating answers. On the other hand, we develop an ELECTRA-based answer ranking model, where logistic regression is conducted during training, with the aim of approximating different levels of plausibility in a polar classification scenario. Extensive experiments on the benchmark ProtoQA show that KEPR obtains substantial improvements, compared to the strong baselines. Within the experimental models, the T5-based GenCQA with KEPR obtains the best performance, which is up to 60.91% at the primary canonical metric Inc@3. It outperforms the existing GenCQA models on the current leaderboard of ProtoQA. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Coreference-aware Double-channel Attention Network for Multi-party  Dialogue Reading Comprehension  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08348  
**Abstract:** We tackle Multi-party Dialogue Reading Comprehension (abbr., MDRC). MDRC stands for an extractive reading comprehension task grounded on a batch of dialogues among multiple interlocutors. It is challenging due to the requirement of understanding cross-utterance contexts and relationships in a multi-turn multi-party conversation. Previous studies have made great efforts on the utterance profiling of a single interlocutor and graph-based interaction modeling. The corresponding solutions contribute to the answer-oriented reasoning on a series of well-organized and thread-aware conversational contexts. However, the current MDRC models still suffer from two bottlenecks. On the one hand, a pronoun like "it" most probably produces multi-skip reasoning throughout the utterances of different interlocutors. On the other hand, an MDRC encoder is potentially puzzled by fuzzy features, i.e., the mixture of inner linguistic features in utterances and external interactive features among utterances. To overcome the bottlenecks, we propose a coreference-aware attention modeling method to strengthen the reasoning ability. In addition, we construct a two-channel encoding network. It separately encodes utterance profiles and interactive relationships, so as to relieve the confusion among heterogeneous features. We experiment on the benchmark corpora Molweni and FriendsQA. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach yields substantial improvements on both corpora, compared to the fine-tuned BERT and ELECTRA baselines. The maximum performance gain is about 2.5\% F1-score. Besides, our MDRC models outperform the state-of-the-art in most cases. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Improving ChatGPT Prompt for Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08360  
**Abstract:** Automated code generation can be a powerful technique for software development, significantly reducing developers' efforts and time required to create new code by generating it automatically based on requirements. Recently, OpenAI's language model ChatGPT has emerged as a powerful tool for generating human-like responses to a wide range of textual inputs (i.e., prompts), including those related to code generation. However, the effectiveness of ChatGPT for code generation is not well understood, and the generation performance could be heavily influenced by the choice of prompt. To answer these questions, we conducted experiments using the CodeXGlue dataset to evaluate ChatGPT's capabilities for two code generation tasks, including text-to-code and code-to-code generation. We designed prompts by leveraging the chain-of-thought strategy with multi-step optimizations. Our results showed that by carefully designing prompts to guide ChatGPT, the generation performance can be improved substantially. We also analyzed the factors that influenced the prompt design and provided insights that could guide future research. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Text Classification via Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08377  
**Abstract:** Despite the remarkable success of large-scale Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-3, their performances still significantly underperform fine-tuned models in the task of text classification. This is due to (1) the lack of reasoning ability in addressing complex linguistic phenomena (e.g., intensification, contrast, irony etc); (2) limited number of tokens allowed in in-context learning. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** TESS: Text-to-Text Self-Conditioned Simplex Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08379  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as a powerful paradigm for generation, obtaining strong performance in various domains with continuous-valued inputs. Despite the promises of fully non-autoregressive text generation, applying diffusion models to natural language remains challenging due to its discrete nature. In this work, we propose Text-to-text Self-conditioned Simplex Diffusion (TESS), a text diffusion model that is fully non-autoregressive, employs a new form of self-conditioning, and applies the diffusion process on the logit simplex space rather than the typical learned embedding space. Through extensive experiments on natural language understanding and generation tasks including summarization, text simplification, paraphrase generation, and question generation, we demonstrate that TESS outperforms state-of-the-art non-autoregressive models and is competitive with pretrained autoregressive sequence-to-sequence models. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Uncovering the Potential of ChatGPT for Discourse Analysis in Dialogue:  An Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08391  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have proven a great shallow understanding of many traditional NLP tasks, such as translation, summarization, etc. However, its performance on high-level understanding, such as dialogue discourse analysis task that requires a higher level of understanding and reasoning, remains less explored. This study investigates ChatGPT's capabilities in three dialogue discourse tasks: topic segmentation, discourse relation recognition, and discourse parsing, of varying difficulty levels. To adapt ChatGPT to these tasks, we propose discriminative and generative paradigms and introduce the Chain of Thought (COT) approach to improve ChatGPT's performance in more difficult tasks. The results show that our generative paradigm allows ChatGPT to achieve comparative performance in the topic segmentation task comparable to state-of-the-art methods but reveals room for improvement in the more complex tasks of discourse relation recognition and discourse parsing. Notably, the COT can significantly enhance ChatGPT's performance with the help of understanding complex structures in more challenging tasks. Through a series of case studies, our in-depth analysis suggests that ChatGPT can be a good annotator in topic segmentation but has difficulties understanding complex rhetorical structures. We hope these findings provide a foundation for future research to refine dialogue discourse analysis approaches in the era of LLMs. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Legal Extractive Summarization of U.S. Court Opinions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08428  
**Abstract:** This paper tackles the task of legal extractive summarization using a dataset of 430K U.S. court opinions with key passages annotated. According to automated summary quality metrics, the reinforcement-learning-based MemSum model is best and even out-performs transformer-based models. In turn, expert human evaluation shows that MemSum summaries effectively capture the key points of lengthy court opinions. Motivated by these results, we open-source our models to the general public. This represents progress towards democratizing law and making U.S. court opinions more accessible to the general public. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Masked Collaborative Contrast for Weakly Supervised Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08491  
**Abstract:** This study introduces an efficacious approach, Masked Collaborative Contrast (MCC), to emphasize semantic regions in weakly supervised semantic segmentation. MCC adroitly incorporates concepts from masked image modeling and contrastive learning to devise Transformer blocks that induce keys to contract towards semantically pertinent regions. Unlike prevalent techniques that directly eradicate patch regions in the input image when generating masks, we scrutinize the neighborhood relations of patch tokens by exploring masks considering keys on the affinity matrix. Moreover, we generate positive and negative samples in contrastive learning by utilizing the masked local output and contrasting it with the global output. Elaborate experiments on commonly employed datasets evidences that the proposed MCC mechanism effectively aligns global and local perspectives within the image, attaining impressive performance. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Similarity-weighted Construction of Contextualized Commonsense Knowledge  Graphs for Knowledge-intense Argumentation Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08495  
**Abstract:** Arguments often do not make explicit how a conclusion follows from its premises. To compensate for this lack, we enrich arguments with structured background knowledge to support knowledge-intense argumentation tasks. We present a new unsupervised method for constructing Contextualized Commonsense Knowledge Graphs (CCKGs) that selects contextually relevant knowledge from large knowledge graphs (KGs) efficiently and at high quality. Our work goes beyond context-insensitive knowledge extraction heuristics by computing semantic similarity between KG triplets and textual arguments. Using these triplet similarities as weights, we extract contextualized knowledge paths that connect a conclusion to its premise, while maximizing similarity to the argument. We combine multiple paths into a CCKG that we optionally prune to reduce noise and raise precision. Intrinsic evaluation of the quality of our graphs shows that our method is effective for (re)constructing human explanation graphs. Manual evaluations in a large-scale knowledge selection setup confirm high recall and precision of implicit CSK in the CCKGs. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of CCKGs in a knowledge-insensitive argument quality rating task, outperforming strong baselines and rivaling a GPT-3 based system. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Fast Traversability Estimation for Wild Visual Navigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08510  
**Abstract:** Natural environments such as forests and grasslands are challenging for robotic navigation because of the false perception of rigid obstacles from high grass, twigs, or bushes. In this work, we propose Wild Visual Navigation (WVN), an online self-supervised learning system for traversability estimation which uses only vision. The system is able to continuously adapt from a short human demonstration in the field. It leverages high-dimensional features from self-supervised visual transformer models, with an online scheme for supervision generation that runs in real-time on the robot. We demonstrate the advantages of our approach with experiments and ablation studies in challenging environments in forests, parks, and grasslands. Our system is able to bootstrap the traversable terrain segmentation in less than 5 min of in-field training time, enabling the robot to navigate in complex outdoor terrains - negotiating obstacles in high grass as well as a 1.4 km footpath following. While our experiments were executed with a quadruped robot, ANYmal, the approach presented can generalize to any ground robot. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Random walks and moving boundaries: Estimating the penetration of  diffusants into dense rubbers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08520  
**Abstract:** For certain materials science scenarios arising in rubber technology, one-dimensional moving boundary problems (MBPs) with kinetic boundary conditions are capable of unveiling the large-time behavior of the diffusants penetration front, giving a direct estimate on the service life of the material. In this paper, we propose a random walk algorithm able to lead to good numerical approximations of both the concentration profile and the location of the sharp front. Essentially, the proposed scheme decouples the target evolution system in two steps: (i) the ordinary differential equation corresponding to the evaluation of the speed of the moving boundary is solved via an explicit Euler method, and (ii) the associated diffusion problem is solved by a random walk method. To verify the correctness of our random walk algorithm we compare the resulting approximations to results based on a finite element approach with a controlled convergence rate. Our numerical experiments recover well penetration depth measurements of an experimental setup targeting dense rubbers. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Cross-Modality Time-Variant Relation Learning for Generating Dynamic  Scene Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08522  
**Abstract:** Dynamic scene graphs generated from video clips could help enhance the semantic visual understanding in a wide range of challenging tasks such as environmental perception, autonomous navigation, and task planning of self-driving vehicles and mobile robots. In the process of temporal and spatial modeling during dynamic scene graph generation, it is particularly intractable to learn time-variant relations in dynamic scene graphs among frames. In this paper, we propose a Time-variant Relation-aware TRansformer (TR$^2$), which aims to model the temporal change of relations in dynamic scene graphs. Explicitly, we leverage the difference of text embeddings of prompted sentences about relation labels as the supervision signal for relations. In this way, cross-modality feature guidance is realized for the learning of time-variant relations. Implicitly, we design a relation feature fusion module with a transformer and an additional message token that describes the difference between adjacent frames. Extensive experiments on the Action Genome dataset prove that our TR$^2$ can effectively model the time-variant relations. TR$^2$ significantly outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods under two different settings by 2.1% and 2.6% respectively. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Ripple sparse self-attention for monaural speech enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08541  
**Abstract:** The use of Transformer represents a recent success in speech enhancement. However, as its core component, self-attention suffers from quadratic complexity, which is computationally prohibited for long speech recordings. Moreover, it allows each time frame to attend to all time frames, neglecting the strong local correlations of speech signals. This study presents a simple yet effective sparse self-attention for speech enhancement, called ripple attention, which simultaneously performs fine- and coarse-grained modeling for local and global dependencies, respectively. Specifically, we employ local band attention to enable each frame to attend to its closest neighbor frames in a window at fine granularity, while employing dilated attention outside the window to model the global dependencies at a coarse granularity. We evaluate the efficacy of our ripple attention for speech enhancement on two commonly used training objectives. Extensive experimental results consistently confirm the superior performance of the ripple attention design over standard full self-attention, blockwise attention, and dual-path attention (Sep-Former) in terms of speech quality and intelligibility. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Adam-Smith at SemEval-2023 Task 4: Discovering Human Values in Arguments  with Ensembles of Transformer-based Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08625  
**Abstract:** This paper presents the best-performing approach alias "Adam Smith" for the SemEval-2023 Task 4: "Identification of Human Values behind Arguments". The goal of the task was to create systems that automatically identify the values within textual arguments. We train transformer-based models until they reach their loss minimum or f1-score maximum. Ensembling the models by selecting one global decision threshold that maximizes the f1-score leads to the best-performing system in the competition. Ensembling based on stacking with logistic regressions shows the best performance on an additional dataset provided to evaluate the robustness ("Nahj al-Balagha"). Apart from outlining the submitted system, we demonstrate that the use of the large ensemble model is not necessary and that the system size can be significantly reduced. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Text2Gender: A Deep Learning Architecture for Analysis of Blogger's Age  and Gender  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08633  
**Abstract:** Deep learning techniques have gained a lot of traction in the field of NLP research. The aim of this paper is to predict the age and gender of an individual by inspecting their written text. We propose a supervised BERT-based classification technique in order to predict the age and gender of bloggers. The dataset used contains 681284 rows of data, with the information of the blogger's age, gender, and text of the blog written by them. We compare our algorithm to previous works in the same domain and achieve a better accuracy and F1 score. The accuracy reported for the prediction of age group was 84.2%, while the accuracy for the prediction of gender was 86.32%. This study relies on the raw capabilities of BERT to predict the classes of textual data efficiently. This paper shows promising capability in predicting the demographics of the author with high accuracy and can have wide applicability across multiple domains. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** AdamR at SemEval-2023 Task 10: Solving the Class Imbalance Problem in  Sexism Detection with Ensemble Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08636  
**Abstract:** The Explainable Detection of Online Sexism task presents the problem of explainable sexism detection through fine-grained categorisation of sexist cases with three subtasks. Our team experimented with different ways to combat class imbalance throughout the tasks using data augmentation and loss alteration techniques. We tackled the challenge by utilising ensembles of Transformer models trained on different datasets, which are tested to find the balance between performance and interpretability. This solution ranked us in the top 40\% of teams for each of the tracks. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Improved baselines for vision-language pre-training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08675  
**Abstract:** Contrastive learning has emerged as an efficient framework to learn multimodal representations. CLIP, a seminal work in this area, achieved impressive results by training on paired image-text data using the contrastive loss. Recent work claims improvements over CLIP using additional non-contrastive losses inspired from self-supervised learning. However, it is sometimes hard to disentangle the contribution of these additional losses from other implementation details, e.g., data augmentation or regularization techniques, used to train the model. To shed light on this matter, in this paper, we first propose, implement and evaluate several baselines obtained by combining contrastive learning with recent advances in self-supervised learning. In particular, we use the loss functions that were proven successful for visual self-supervised learning to align image and text modalities. We find that these baselines outperform a basic implementation of CLIP. However, when a stronger training recipe is employed, the advantage disappears. Indeed, we find that a simple CLIP baseline can also be improved substantially, up to a 25% relative improvement on downstream zero-shot tasks, by using well-known training techniques that are popular in other subfields. Moreover, we discover that it is enough to apply image and text augmentations to make up for most of the improvement attained by prior works. With our improved training recipe for CLIP, we obtain state-of-the-art performance on four standard datasets, and consistently outperform prior work (up to +4% on the largest dataset), while being substantially simpler. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** CLIP-VG: Self-paced Curriculum Adapting of CLIP via Exploiting  Pseudo-Language Labels for Visual Grounding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08685  
**Abstract:** Visual Grounding (VG) refers to locating a region described by expressions in a specific image, which is a critical topic in vision-language fields. To alleviate the dependence on labeled data, existing unsupervised methods try to locate regions using task-unrelated pseudo-labels. However, a large proportion of pseudo-labels are noisy and diversity scarcity in language taxonomy. Inspired by the advances in V-L pretraining, we consider utilizing the VLP models to realize unsupervised transfer learning in downstream grounding task. Thus, we propose CLIP-VG, a novel method that can conduct self-paced curriculum adapting of CLIP via exploiting pseudo-language labels to solve VG problem. By elaborating an efficient model structure, we first propose a single-source and multi-source curriculum adapting method for unsupervised VG to progressively sample more reliable cross-modal pseudo-labels to obtain the optimal model, thus achieving implicit knowledge exploiting and denoising. Our method outperforms the existing state-of-the-art unsupervised VG method Pseudo-Q in both single-source and multi-source scenarios with a large margin, i.e., 6.78%~10.67% and 11.39%~24.87% on RefCOCO/+/g datasets, even outperforms existing weakly supervised methods. The code and models will be released at \url{https://github.com/linhuixiao/CLIP-VG}. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** A Reproducible Extraction of Training Images from Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08694  
**Abstract:** Recently, Carlini et al. demonstrated the widely used model Stable Diffusion can regurgitate real training samples, which is troublesome from a copyright perspective. In this work, we provide an efficient extraction attack on par with the recent attack, with several order of magnitudes less network evaluations. In the process, we expose a new phenomena, which we dub template verbatims, wherein a diffusion model will regurgitate a training sample largely in tact. Template verbatims are harder to detect as they require retrieval and masking to correctly label. Furthermore, they are still generated by newer systems, even those which de-duplicate their training set, and we give insight into why they still appear during generation. We extract training images from several state of the art systems, including Stable Diffusion 2.0, Deep Image Floyd, and finally Midjourney v4. We release code to verify our extraction attack, perform the attack, as well as all extracted prompts at \url{https://github.com/ryanwebster90/onestep-extraction}. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Continual Multimodal Knowledge Graph Construction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08698  
**Abstract:** Multimodal Knowledge Graph Construction (MMKC) refers to the process of creating a structured representation of entities and relationships through multiple modalities such as text, images, videos, etc. However, existing MMKC models have limitations in handling the introduction of new entities and relations due to the dynamic nature of the real world. Moreover, most state-of-the-art studies in MMKC only consider entity and relation extraction from text data while neglecting other multi-modal sources. Meanwhile, the current continual setting for knowledge graph construction only consider entity and relation extraction from text data while neglecting other multi-modal sources. Therefore, there arises the need to explore the challenge of continuous multimodal knowledge graph construction to address the phenomenon of catastrophic forgetting and ensure the retention of past knowledge extracted from different forms of data. This research focuses on investigating this complex topic by developing lifelong multimodal benchmark datasets. Based on the empirical findings that several state-of-the-art MMKC models, when trained on multimedia data, might unexpectedly underperform compared to those solely utilizing textual resources in a continual setting, we propose a Lifelong MultiModal Consistent Transformer Framework (LMC) for continuous multimodal knowledge graph construction. By combining the advantages of consistent KGC strategies within the context of continual learning, we achieve greater balance between stability and plasticity. Our experiments demonstrate the superior performance of our method over prevailing continual learning techniques or multimodal approaches in dynamic scenarios. Code and datasets can be found at https://github.com/zjunlp/ContinueMKGC. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Schema-adaptable Knowledge Graph Construction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08703  
**Abstract:** Conventional Knowledge Graph Construction (KGC) approaches typically follow the static information extraction paradigm with a closed set of pre-defined schema. As a result, such approaches fall short when applied to dynamic scenarios or domains, whereas a new type of knowledge emerges. This necessitates a system that can handle evolving schema automatically to extract information for KGC. To address this need, we propose a new task called schema-adaptable KGC, which aims to continually extract entity, relation, and event based on a dynamically changing schema graph without re-training. We first split and convert existing datasets based on three principles to build a benchmark, i.e., horizontal schema expansion, vertical schema expansion, and hybrid schema expansion; then investigate the schema-adaptable performance of several well-known approaches such as Text2Event, TANL, UIE and GPT-3. We further propose a simple yet effective baseline dubbed AdaKGC, which contains schema-enriched prefix instructor and schema-conditioned dynamic decoding to better handle evolving schema. Comprehensive experimental results illustrate that AdaKGC can outperform baselines but still have room for improvement. We hope the proposed work can deliver benefits to the community. Code and datasets will be available in https://github.com/zjunlp/AdaKGC. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** sustain.AI: a Recommender System to analyze Sustainability Reports  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08711  
**Abstract:** We present sustain.AI, an intelligent, context-aware recommender system that assists auditors and financial investors as well as the general public to efficiently analyze companies' sustainability reports. The tool leverages an end-to-end trainable architecture that couples a BERT-based encoding module with a multi-label classification head to match relevant text passages from sustainability reports to their respective law regulations from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. We evaluate our model on two novel German sustainability reporting data sets and consistently achieve a significantly higher recommendation performance compared to multiple strong baselines. Furthermore, sustain.AI will be publicly available for everyone within the next months. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Sensitivity and Robustness of Large Language Models to Prompt in  Japanese  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08714  
**Abstract:** Prompt Engineering has gained significant relevance in recent years, fueled by advancements in pre-trained and large language models. However, a critical issue has been identified within this domain: the lack of sensitivity and robustness of these models towards Prompt Templates, particularly in lesser-studied languages such as Japanese. This paper explores this issue through a comprehensive evaluation of several representative Large Language Models (LLMs) and a widely-utilized pre-trained model(PLM), T5. These models are scrutinized using a benchmark dataset in Japanese, with the aim to assess and analyze the performance of the current multilingual models in this context. Our experimental results reveal startling discrepancies. A simple modification in the sentence structure of the Prompt Template led to a drastic drop in the accuracy of GPT-4 from 49.21 to 25.44. This observation underscores the fact that even the highly performance GPT-4 model encounters significant stability issues when dealing with diverse Japanese prompt templates, rendering the consistency of the model's output results questionable. In light of these findings, we conclude by proposing potential research trajectories to further enhance the development and performance of Large Language Models in their current stage. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** M$^{6}$Doc: A Large-Scale Multi-Format, Multi-Type, Multi-Layout,  Multi-Language, Multi-Annotation Category Dataset for Modern Document Layout  Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08719  
**Abstract:** Document layout analysis is a crucial prerequisite for document understanding, including document retrieval and conversion. Most public datasets currently contain only PDF documents and lack realistic documents. Models trained on these datasets may not generalize well to real-world scenarios. Therefore, this paper introduces a large and diverse document layout analysis dataset called $M^{6}Doc$. The $M^6$ designation represents six properties: (1) Multi-Format (including scanned, photographed, and PDF documents); (2) Multi-Type (such as scientific articles, textbooks, books, test papers, magazines, newspapers, and notes); (3) Multi-Layout (rectangular, Manhattan, non-Manhattan, and multi-column Manhattan); (4) Multi-Language (Chinese and English); (5) Multi-Annotation Category (74 types of annotation labels with 237,116 annotation instances in 9,080 manually annotated pages); and (6) Modern documents. Additionally, we propose a transformer-based document layout analysis method called TransDLANet, which leverages an adaptive element matching mechanism that enables query embedding to better match ground truth to improve recall, and constructs a segmentation branch for more precise document image instance segmentation. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of $M^{6}Doc$ with various layout analysis methods and demonstrate its effectiveness. TransDLANet achieves state-of-the-art performance on $M^{6}Doc$ with 64.5\% mAP. The $M^{6}Doc$ dataset will be available at https://github.com/HCIILAB/M6Doc. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Knowledge Rumination for Pre-trained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08732  
**Abstract:** Previous studies have revealed that vanilla pre-trained language models (PLMs) lack the capacity to handle knowledge-intensive NLP tasks alone; thus, several works have attempted to integrate external knowledge into PLMs. However, despite the promising outcome, we empirically observe that PLMs may have already encoded rich knowledge in their pre-trained parameters but fails to fully utilize them when applying to knowledge-intensive tasks. In this paper, we propose a new paradigm dubbed Knowledge Rumination to help the pre-trained language model utilize those related latent knowledge without retrieving them from the external corpus. By simply adding a prompt like ``As far as I know'' to the PLMs, we try to review related latent knowledge and inject them back to the model for knowledge consolidation. We apply the proposed knowledge rumination to various language models, including RoBERTa, DeBERTa, GPT-3 and OPT. Experimental results on six commonsense reasoning tasks and GLUE benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach, which further proves that the knowledge stored in PLMs can be better exploited to enhance the downstream performance. Code will be available in https://github.com/zjunlp/knowledge-rumination. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Physics Informed Token Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08757  
**Abstract:** Solving Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) is the core of many fields of science and engineering. While classical approaches are often prohibitively slow, machine learning models often fail to incorporate complete system information. Over the past few years, transformers have had a significant impact on the field of Artificial Intelligence and have seen increased usage in PDE applications. However, despite their success, transformers currently lack integration with physics and reasoning. This study aims to address this issue by introducing PITT: Physics Informed Token Transformer. The purpose of PITT is to incorporate the knowledge of physics by embedding partial differential equations (PDEs) into the learning process. PITT uses an equation tokenization method to learn an analytically-driven numerical update operator. By tokenizing PDEs and embedding partial derivatives, the transformer models become aware of the underlying knowledge behind physical processes. To demonstrate this, PITT is tested on challenging PDE neural operators in both 1D and 2D prediction tasks. The results show that PITT outperforms the popular Fourier Neural Operator and has the ability to extract physically relevant information from governing equations. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** GeoMAE: Masked Geometric Target Prediction for Self-supervised Point  Cloud Pre-Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08808  
**Abstract:** This paper tries to address a fundamental question in point cloud self-supervised learning: what is a good signal we should leverage to learn features from point clouds without annotations? To answer that, we introduce a point cloud representation learning framework, based on geometric feature reconstruction. In contrast to recent papers that directly adopt masked autoencoder (MAE) and only predict original coordinates or occupancy from masked point clouds, our method revisits differences between images and point clouds and identifies three self-supervised learning objectives peculiar to point clouds, namely centroid prediction, normal estimation, and curvature prediction. Combined with occupancy prediction, these four objectives yield an nontrivial self-supervised learning task and mutually facilitate models to better reason fine-grained geometry of point clouds. Our pipeline is conceptually simple and it consists of two major steps: first, it randomly masks out groups of points, followed by a Transformer-based point cloud encoder; second, a lightweight Transformer decoder predicts centroid, normal, and curvature for points in each voxel. We transfer the pre-trained Transformer encoder to a downstream peception model. On the nuScene Datset, our model achieves 3.38 mAP improvment for object detection, 2.1 mIoU gain for segmentation, and 1.7 AMOTA gain for multi-object tracking. We also conduct experiments on the Waymo Open Dataset and achieve significant performance improvements over baselines as well. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** AutoRecon: Automated 3D Object Discovery and Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08810  
**Abstract:** A fully automated object reconstruction pipeline is crucial for digital content creation. While the area of 3D reconstruction has witnessed profound developments, the removal of background to obtain a clean object model still relies on different forms of manual labor, such as bounding box labeling, mask annotations, and mesh manipulations. In this paper, we propose a novel framework named AutoRecon for the automated discovery and reconstruction of an object from multi-view images. We demonstrate that foreground objects can be robustly located and segmented from SfM point clouds by leveraging self-supervised 2D vision transformer features. Then, we reconstruct decomposed neural scene representations with dense supervision provided by the decomposed point clouds, resulting in accurate object reconstruction and segmentation. Experiments on the DTU, BlendedMVS and CO3D-V2 datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of AutoRecon. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** RL4F: Generating Natural Language Feedback with Reinforcement Learning  for Repairing Model Outputs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08844  
**Abstract:** Despite their unprecedented success, even the largest language models make mistakes. Similar to how humans learn and improve using feedback, previous work proposed providing language models with natural language feedback to guide them in repairing their outputs. Because human-generated critiques are expensive to obtain, researchers have devised learned critique generators in lieu of human critics while assuming one can train downstream models to utilize generated feedback. However, this approach does not apply to black-box or limited access models such as ChatGPT, as they cannot be fine-tuned. Moreover, in the era of large general-purpose language agents, fine-tuning is neither computationally nor spatially efficient as it results in multiple copies of the network. In this work, we introduce RL4F (Reinforcement Learning for Feedback), a multi-agent collaborative framework where the critique generator is trained to maximize end-task performance of GPT-3, a fixed model more than 200 times its size. RL4F produces critiques that help GPT-3 revise its outputs. We study three datasets for action planning, summarization and alphabetization and show improvements (~5% on average) in multiple text similarity metrics over strong baselines across all three tasks. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Large Language Models are Zero-Shot Rankers for Recommender Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08845  
**Abstract:** Recently, large language models (LLMs) (e.g. GPT-4) have demonstrated impressive general-purpose task-solving abilities, including the potential to approach recommendation tasks. Along this line of research, this work aims to investigate the capacity of LLMs that act as the ranking model for recommender systems. To conduct our empirical study, we first formalize the recommendation problem as a conditional ranking task, considering sequential interaction histories as conditions and the items retrieved by the candidate generation model as candidates. We adopt a specific prompting approach to solving the ranking task by LLMs: we carefully design the prompting template by including the sequential interaction history, the candidate items, and the ranking instruction. We conduct extensive experiments on two widely-used datasets for recommender systems and derive several key findings for the use of LLMs in recommender systems. We show that LLMs have promising zero-shot ranking abilities, even competitive to or better than conventional recommendation models on candidates retrieved by multiple candidate generators. We also demonstrate that LLMs struggle to perceive the order of historical interactions and can be affected by biases like position bias, while these issues can be alleviated via specially designed prompting and bootstrapping strategies. The code to reproduce this work is available at https://github.com/RUCAIBox/LLMRank. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Small Models are Valuable Plug-ins for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08848  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 and GPT-4 are powerful but their weights are often publicly unavailable and their immense sizes make the models difficult to be tuned with common hardware. As a result, effectively tuning these models with large-scale supervised data can be challenging. As an alternative, In-Context Learning (ICL) can only use a small number of supervised examples due to context length limits. In this paper, we propose Super In-Context Learning (SuperICL) which allows black-box LLMs to work with locally fine-tuned smaller models, resulting in superior performance on supervised tasks. Our experiments demonstrate that SuperICL can improve performance beyond state-of-the-art fine-tuned models while addressing the instability problem of in-context learning. Furthermore, SuperICL can enhance the capabilities of smaller models, such as multilinguality and interpretability. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Make-A-Protagonist: Generic Video Editing with An Ensemble of Experts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08850  
**Abstract:** The text-driven image and video diffusion models have achieved unprecedented success in generating realistic and diverse content. Recently, the editing and variation of existing images and videos in diffusion-based generative models have garnered significant attention. However, previous works are limited to editing content with text or providing coarse personalization using a single visual clue, rendering them unsuitable for indescribable content that requires fine-grained and detailed control. In this regard, we propose a generic video editing framework called Make-A-Protagonist, which utilizes textual and visual clues to edit videos with the goal of empowering individuals to become the protagonists. Specifically, we leverage multiple experts to parse source video, target visual and textual clues, and propose a visual-textual-based video generation model that employs mask-guided denoising sampling to generate the desired output. Extensive results demonstrate the versatile and remarkable editing capabilities of Make-A-Protagonist. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** MV-Map: Offboard HD-Map Generation with Multi-view Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08851  
**Abstract:** While bird's-eye-view (BEV) perception models can be useful for building high-definition maps (HD-Maps) with less human labor, their results are often unreliable and demonstrate noticeable inconsistencies in the predicted HD-Maps from different viewpoints. This is because BEV perception is typically set up in an 'onboard' manner, which restricts the computation and consequently prevents algorithms from reasoning multiple views simultaneously. This paper overcomes these limitations and advocates a more practical 'offboard' HD-Map generation setup that removes the computation constraints, based on the fact that HD-Maps are commonly reusable infrastructures built offline in data centers. To this end, we propose a novel offboard pipeline called MV-Map that capitalizes multi-view consistency and can handle an arbitrary number of frames with the key design of a 'region-centric' framework. In MV-Map, the target HD-Maps are created by aggregating all the frames of onboard predictions, weighted by the confidence scores assigned by an 'uncertainty network'. To further enhance multi-view consistency, we augment the uncertainty network with the global 3D structure optimized by a voxelized neural radiance field (Voxel-NeRF). Extensive experiments on nuScenes show that our MV-Map significantly improves the quality of HD-Maps, further highlighting the importance of offboard methods for HD-Map generation. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Laughing Matters: Introducing Laughing-Face Generation using Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08854  
**Abstract:** Speech-driven animation has gained significant traction in recent years, with current methods achieving near-photorealistic results. However, the field remains underexplored regarding non-verbal communication despite evidence demonstrating its importance in human interaction. In particular, generating laughter sequences presents a unique challenge due to the intricacy and nuances of this behaviour. This paper aims to bridge this gap by proposing a novel model capable of generating realistic laughter sequences, given a still portrait and an audio clip containing laughter. We highlight the failure cases of traditional facial animation methods and leverage recent advances in diffusion models to produce convincing laughter videos. We train our model on a diverse set of laughter datasets and introduce an evaluation metric specifically designed for laughter. When compared with previous speech-driven approaches, our model achieves state-of-the-art performance across all metrics, even when these are re-trained for laughter generation. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** AWFSD: Accelerated Wirtinger Flow with Score-based Diffusion Image Prior  for Poisson-Gaussian Holographic Phase Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07712  
**Abstract:** Phase retrieval (PR) is an essential problem in a number of coherent imaging systems. This work aims at resolving the holographic phase retrieval problem in real world scenarios where the measurements are corrupted by a mixture of Poisson and Gaussian (PG) noise that stems from optical imaging systems. To solve this problem, we develop a novel algorithm based on Accelerated Wirtinger Flow that uses Score-based Diffusion models as the generative prior (AWFSD). In particular, we frame the PR problem as an optimization task that involves both a data fidelity term and a regularization term. We derive the gradient of the PG log-likelihood function along with its corresponding Lipschitz constant, ensuring a more accurate data consistency term for practical measurements. We introduce a generative prior as part of our regularization approach by using a score-based diffusion model to capture (the gradient of) the image prior distribution. We provide theoretical analysis that establishes a critical-point convergence guarantee for the proposed AWFSD algorithm. Our simulation experiments demonstrate that: 1) The proposed algorithm based on the PG likelihood model enhances reconstruction compared to that solely based on either Gaussian or Poisson likelihood. 2) The proposed AWFSD algorithm produces reconstructions with higher image quality both qualitatively and quantitatively, and is more robust to variations in noise levels when compared with state-of-the-art methods for phase retrieval. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Meta-Polyp: a baseline for efficient Polyp segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.07848  
**Abstract:** In recent years, polyp segmentation has gained significant importance, and many methods have been developed using CNN, Vision Transformer, and Transformer techniques to achieve competitive results. However, these methods often face difficulties when dealing with out-of-distribution datasets, missing boundaries, and small polyps. In 2022, Meta-Former was introduced as a new baseline for vision, which not only improved the performance of multi-task computer vision but also addressed the limitations of the Vision Transformer and CNN family backbones. To further enhance segmentation, we propose a fusion of Meta-Former with UNet, along with the introduction of a Multi-scale Upsampling block with a level-up combination in the decoder stage to enhance the texture, also we propose the Convformer block base on the idea of the Meta-former to enhance the crucial information of the local feature. These blocks enable the combination of global information, such as the overall shape of the polyp, with local information and boundary information, which is crucial for the decision of the medical segmentation. Our proposed approach achieved competitive performance and obtained the top result in the State of the Art on the CVC-300 dataset, Kvasir, and CVC-ColonDB dataset. Apart from Kvasir-SEG, others are out-of-distribution datasets. The implementation can be found at: https://github.com/huyquoctrinh/MetaPolyp-CBMS2023. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Fixing the flux: A dual approach to computing transport coefficients  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08224  
**Abstract:** We present a method to compute transport coefficients in molecular dynamics. Transport coefficients quantify the linear dependencies of fluxes in non-equilibrium systems subject to small external forcings. Whereas standard non-equilibrium approaches fix the forcing and measure the average flux induced in the system driven out of equilibrium, a dual philosophy consists in fixing the value of the flux, and measuring the average magnitude of the forcing needed to induce it. A deterministic version of this approach, named Norton dynamics, was studied in the 1980s by Evans and Morris. In this work, we introduce a stochastic version of this method, first developing a general formal theory for a broad class of diffusion processes, and then specializing it to underdamped Langevin dynamics, which are commonly used for molecular dynamics simulations. We provide numerical evidence that the stochastic Norton method provides an equivalent measure of the linear response, and in fact demonstrate that this equivalence extends well beyond the linear response regime. This work raises many intriguing questions, both from the theoretical and the numerical perspectives. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** MaxViT-UNet: Multi-Axis Attention for Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08396  
**Abstract:** Convolutional neural networks have made significant strides in medical image analysis in recent years. However, the local nature of the convolution operator inhibits the CNNs from capturing global and long-range interactions. Recently, Transformers have gained popularity in the computer vision community and also medical image segmentation. But scalability issues of self-attention mechanism and lack of the CNN like inductive bias have limited their adoption. In this work, we present MaxViT-UNet, an Encoder-Decoder based hybrid vision transformer for medical image segmentation. The proposed hybrid decoder, also based on MaxViT-block, is designed to harness the power of convolution and self-attention mechanism at each decoding stage with minimal computational burden. The multi-axis self-attention in each decoder stage helps in differentiating between the object and background regions much more efficiently. The hybrid decoder block initially fuses the lower level features upsampled via transpose convolution, with skip-connection features coming from hybrid encoder, then fused features are refined using multi-axis attention mechanism. The proposed decoder block is repeated multiple times to accurately segment the nuclei regions. Experimental results on MoNuSeg dataset proves the effectiveness of the proposed technique. Our MaxViT-UNet outperformed the previous CNN only (UNet) and Transformer only (Swin-UNet) techniques by a large margin of 2.36% and 5.31% on Dice metric respectively. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Temporal and Heterogeneous Graph Neural Network for Financial Time  Series Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08740  
**Abstract:** The price movement prediction of stock market has been a classical yet challenging problem, with the attention of both economists and computer scientists. In recent years, graph neural network has significantly improved the prediction performance by employing deep learning on company relations. However, existing relation graphs are usually constructed by handcraft human labeling or nature language processing, which are suffering from heavy resource requirement and low accuracy. Besides, they cannot effectively response to the dynamic changes in relation graphs. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a temporal and heterogeneous graph neural network-based (THGNN) approach to learn the dynamic relations among price movements in financial time series. In particular, we first generate the company relation graph for each trading day according to their historic price. Then we leverage a transformer encoder to encode the price movement information into temporal representations. Afterward, we propose a heterogeneous graph attention network to jointly optimize the embeddings of the financial time series data by transformer encoder and infer the probability of target movements. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on the stock market in the United States and China. The results demonstrate the effectiveness and superior performance of our proposed methods compared with state-of-the-art baselines. Moreover, we also deploy the proposed THGNN in a real-world quantitative algorithm trading system, the accumulated portfolio return obtained by our method significantly outperforms other baselines. 

