**ID:** 1  
**Title:** M$^2$DAR: Multi-View Multi-Scale Driver Action Recognition with Vision  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08877  
**Abstract:** Ensuring traffic safety and preventing accidents is a critical goal in daily driving, where the advancement of computer vision technologies can be leveraged to achieve this goal. In this paper, we present a multi-view, multi-scale framework for naturalistic driving action recognition and localization in untrimmed videos, namely M$^2$DAR, with a particular focus on detecting distracted driving behaviors. Our system features a weight-sharing, multi-scale Transformer-based action recognition network that learns robust hierarchical representations. Furthermore, we propose a new election algorithm consisting of aggregation, filtering, merging, and selection processes to refine the preliminary results from the action recognition module across multiple views. Extensive experiments conducted on the 7th AI City Challenge Track 3 dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, where we achieved an overlap score of 0.5921 on the A2 test set. Our source code is available at \url{https://github.com/PurdueDigitalTwin/M2DAR}. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Spiking Network Initialisation and Firing Rate Collapse  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08879  
**Abstract:** In recent years, newly developed methods to train spiking neural networks (SNNs) have rendered them as a plausible alternative to Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) in terms of accuracy, while at the same time being much more energy efficient at inference and potentially at training time. However, it is still unclear what constitutes a good initialisation for an SNN. We often use initialisation schemes developed for ANN training which are often inadequate and require manual tuning. In this paper, we attempt to tackle this issue by using techniques from the ANN initialisation literature as well as computational neuroscience results. We show that the problem of weight initialisation for ANNs is a more nuanced problem than it is for ANNs due to the spike-and-reset non-linearity of SNNs and the firing rate collapse problem. We firstly identify and propose several solutions to the firing rate collapse problem under different sets of assumptions which successfully solve the issue by leveraging classical random walk and Wiener processes results. Secondly, we devise a general strategy for SNN initialisation which combines variance propagation techniques from ANNs and different methods to obtain the expected firing rate and membrane potential distribution based on diffusion and shot-noise approximations. Altogether, we obtain theoretical results to solve the SNN initialisation which consider the membrane potential distribution in the presence of a threshold. Yet, to what extent can these methods be successfully applied to SNNs on real datasets remains an open question. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Smart Home Energy Management: VAE-GAN synthetic dataset generator and  Q-learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08885  
**Abstract:** Recent years have noticed an increasing interest among academia and industry towards analyzing the electrical consumption of residential buildings and employing smart home energy management systems (HEMS) to reduce household energy consumption and costs. HEMS has been developed to simulate the statistical and functional properties of actual smart grids. Access to publicly available datasets is a major challenge in this type of research. The potential of artificial HEMS applications will be further enhanced with the development of time series that represent different operating conditions of the synthetic systems. In this paper, we propose a novel variational auto-encoder-generative adversarial network (VAE-GAN) technique for generating time-series data on energy consumption in smart homes. We also explore how the generative model performs when combined with a Q-learning-based HEMS. We tested the online performance of Q-learning-based HEMS with real-world smart home data. To test the generated dataset, we measure the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence, maximum mean discrepancy (MMD), and the Wasserstein distance between the probability distributions of the real and synthetic data. Our experiments show that VAE-GAN-generated synthetic data closely matches the real data distribution. Finally, we show that the generated data allows for the training of a higher-performance Q-learning-based HEMS compared to datasets generated with baseline approaches. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Common Diffusion Noise Schedules and Sample Steps are Flawed  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08891  
**Abstract:** We discover that common diffusion noise schedules do not enforce the last timestep to have zero signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and some implementations of diffusion samplers do not start from the last timestep. Such designs are flawed and do not reflect the fact that the model is given pure Gaussian noise at inference, creating a discrepancy between training and inference. We show that the flawed design causes real problems in existing implementations. In Stable Diffusion, it severely limits the model to only generate images with medium brightness and prevents it from generating very bright and dark samples. We propose a few simple fixes: (1) rescale the noise schedule to enforce zero terminal SNR; (2) train the model with v prediction; (3) change the sampler to always start from the last timestep; (4) rescale classifier-free guidance to prevent over-exposure. These simple changes ensure the diffusion process is congruent between training and inference and allow the model to generate samples more faithful to the original data distribution. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Exploration of unknown indoor regions by a swarm of energy-constrained  drones  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08957  
**Abstract:** Several distributed algorithms are presented for the exploration of unknown indoor regions by a swarm of flying, energy constrained agents. The agents, which are identical, autonomous, anonymous and oblivious, uniformly cover the region and thus explore it using predefined action rules based on locally sensed information and the energy level of the agents. While flying drones have many advantages in search and rescue scenarios, their main drawback is a high power consumption during flight combined with limited, on-board energy. Furthermore, in these scenarios agent size is severely limited and consequently so are the total weight and capabilities of the agents. The region is modeled as a connected sub-set of a regular grid composed of square cells that the agents enter, over time, via entry points. Some of the agents may settle in unoccupied cells as the exploration progresses. Settled agents conserve energy and become virtual pheromones for the exploration and coverage process, beacons that subsequently aid the remaining, and still exploring, mobile agents. The termination of the coverage process is based on a backward propagating information diffusion scheme. Various algorithmical alternatives are discussed and upper bounds derived and compared to experimental results. Finally, an optimal entry rate that minimizes the total energy consumption is derived for the case of a linear regions. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** LoViT: Long Video Transformer for Surgical Phase Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08989  
**Abstract:** Online surgical phase recognition plays a significant role towards building contextual tools that could quantify performance and oversee the execution of surgical workflows. Current approaches are limited since they train spatial feature extractors using frame-level supervision that could lead to incorrect predictions due to similar frames appearing at different phases, and poorly fuse local and global features due to computational constraints which can affect the analysis of long videos commonly encountered in surgical interventions. In this paper, we present a two-stage method, called Long Video Transformer (LoViT) for fusing short- and long-term temporal information that combines a temporally-rich spatial feature extractor and a multi-scale temporal aggregator consisting of two cascaded L-Trans modules based on self-attention, followed by a G-Informer module based on ProbSparse self-attention for processing global temporal information. The multi-scale temporal head then combines local and global features and classifies surgical phases using phase transition-aware supervision. Our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods on the Cholec80 and AutoLaparo datasets consistently. Compared to Trans-SVNet, LoViT achieves a 2.39 pp (percentage point) improvement in video-level accuracy on Cholec80 and a 3.14 pp improvement on AutoLaparo. Moreover, it achieves a 5.25 pp improvement in phase-level Jaccard on AutoLaparo and a 1.55 pp improvement on Cholec80. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in achieving state-of-the-art performance of surgical phase recognition on two datasets of different surgical procedures and temporal sequencing characteristics whilst introducing mechanisms that cope with long videos. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Denoising Diffusion Models for Plug-and-Play Image Restoration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.08995  
**Abstract:** Plug-and-play Image Restoration (IR) has been widely recognized as a flexible and interpretable method for solving various inverse problems by utilizing any off-the-shelf denoiser as the implicit image prior. However, most existing methods focus on discriminative Gaussian denoisers. Although diffusion models have shown impressive performance for high-quality image synthesis, their potential to serve as a generative denoiser prior to the plug-and-play IR methods remains to be further explored. While several other attempts have been made to adopt diffusion models for image restoration, they either fail to achieve satisfactory results or typically require an unacceptable number of Neural Function Evaluations (NFEs) during inference. This paper proposes DiffPIR, which integrates the traditional plug-and-play method into the diffusion sampling framework. Compared to plug-and-play IR methods that rely on discriminative Gaussian denoisers, DiffPIR is expected to inherit the generative ability of diffusion models. Experimental results on three representative IR tasks, including super-resolution, image deblurring, and inpainting, demonstrate that DiffPIR achieves state-of-the-art performance on both the FFHQ and ImageNet datasets in terms of reconstruction faithfulness and perceptual quality with no more than 100 NFEs. The source code is available at {\url{https://github.com/yuanzhi-zhu/DiffPIR}} 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** DATED: Guidelines for Creating Synthetic Datasets for Engineering Design  Applications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09018  
**Abstract:** Exploiting the recent advancements in artificial intelligence, showcased by ChatGPT and DALL-E, in real-world applications necessitates vast, domain-specific, and publicly accessible datasets. Unfortunately, the scarcity of such datasets poses a significant challenge for researchers aiming to apply these breakthroughs in engineering design. Synthetic datasets emerge as a viable alternative. However, practitioners are often uncertain about generating high-quality datasets that accurately represent real-world data and are suitable for the intended downstream applications. This study aims to fill this knowledge gap by proposing comprehensive guidelines for generating, annotating, and validating synthetic datasets. The trade-offs and methods associated with each of these aspects are elaborated upon. Further, the practical implications of these guidelines are illustrated through the creation of a turbo-compressors dataset. The study underscores the importance of thoughtful sampling methods to ensure the appropriate size, diversity, utility, and realism of a dataset. It also highlights that design diversity does not equate to performance diversity or realism. By employing test sets that represent uniform, real, or task-specific samples, the influence of sample size and sampling strategy is scrutinized. Overall, this paper offers valuable insights for researchers intending to create and publish synthetic datasets for engineering design, thereby paving the way for more effective applications of AI advancements in the field. The code and data for the dataset and methods are made publicly accessible at https://github.com/cyrilpic/radcomp . 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Self-Supervised Pretraining on Paired Sequences of fMRI Data for  Transfer Learning to Brain Decoding Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09057  
**Abstract:** In this work we introduce a self-supervised pretraining framework for transformers on functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) data. First, we pretrain our architecture on two self-supervised tasks simultaneously to teach the model a general understanding of the temporal and spatial dynamics of human auditory cortex during music listening. Our pretraining results are the first to suggest a synergistic effect of multitask training on fMRI data. Second, we finetune the pretrained models and train additional fresh models on a supervised fMRI classification task. We observe significantly improved accuracy on held-out runs with the finetuned models, which demonstrates the ability of our pretraining tasks to facilitate transfer learning. This work contributes to the growing body of literature on transformer architectures for pretraining and transfer learning with fMRI data, and serves as a proof of concept for our pretraining tasks and multitask pretraining on fMRI data. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Private Training Set Inspection in MLaaS  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09058  
**Abstract:** Machine Learning as a Service (MLaaS) is a popular cloud-based solution for customers who aim to use an ML model but lack training data, computation resources, or expertise in ML. In this case, the training datasets are typically a private possession of the ML or data companies and are inaccessible to the customers, but the customers still need an approach to confirm that the training datasets meet their expectations and fulfil regulatory measures like fairness. However, no existing work addresses the above customers' concerns. This work is the first attempt to solve this problem, taking data origin as an entry point. We first define origin membership measurement and based on this, we then define diversity and fairness metrics to address customers' concerns. We then propose a strategy to estimate the values of these two metrics in the inaccessible training dataset, combining shadow training techniques from membership inference and an efficient featurization scheme in multiple instance learning. The evaluation contains an application of text review polarity classification applications based on the language BERT model. Experimental results show that our solution can achieve up to 0.87 accuracy for membership inspection and up to 99.3% confidence in inspecting diversity and fairness distribution. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** PanelNet: Understanding 360 Indoor Environment via Panel Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09078  
**Abstract:** Indoor 360 panoramas have two essential properties. (1) The panoramas are continuous and seamless in the horizontal direction. (2) Gravity plays an important role in indoor environment design. By leveraging these properties, we present PanelNet, a framework that understands indoor environments using a novel panel representation of 360 images. We represent an equirectangular projection (ERP) as consecutive vertical panels with corresponding 3D panel geometry. To reduce the negative impact of panoramic distortion, we incorporate a panel geometry embedding network that encodes both the local and global geometric features of a panel. To capture the geometric context in room design, we introduce Local2Global Transformer, which aggregates local information within a panel and panel-wise global context. It greatly improves the model performance with low training overhead. Our method outperforms existing methods on indoor 360 depth estimation and shows competitive results against state-of-the-art approaches on the task of indoor layout estimation and semantic segmentation. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** ProtoVAE: Prototypical Networks for Unsupervised Disentanglement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09092  
**Abstract:** Generative modeling and self-supervised learning have in recent years made great strides towards learning from data in a completely unsupervised way. There is still however an open area of investigation into guiding a neural network to encode the data into representations that are interpretable or explainable. The problem of unsupervised disentanglement is of particular importance as it proposes to discover the different latent factors of variation or semantic concepts from the data alone, without labeled examples, and encode them into structurally disjoint latent representations. Without additional constraints or inductive biases placed in the network, a generative model may learn the data distribution and encode the factors, but not necessarily in a disentangled way. Here, we introduce a novel deep generative VAE-based model, ProtoVAE, that leverages a deep metric learning Prototypical network trained using self-supervision to impose these constraints. The prototypical network constrains the mapping of the representation space to data space to ensure that controlled changes in the representation space are mapped to changes in the factors of variations in the data space. Our model is completely unsupervised and requires no a priori knowledge of the dataset, including the number of factors. We evaluate our proposed model on the benchmark dSprites, 3DShapes, and MPI3D disentanglement datasets, showing state of the art results against previous methods via qualitative traversals in the latent space, as well as quantitative disentanglement metrics. We further qualitatively demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on the real-world CelebA dataset. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Weight-Inherited Distillation for Task-Agnostic BERT Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09098  
**Abstract:** Knowledge Distillation (KD) is a predominant approach for BERT compression. Previous KD-based methods focus on designing extra alignment losses for the student model to mimic the behavior of the teacher model. These methods transfer the knowledge in an indirect way. In this paper, we propose a novel Weight-Inherited Distillation (WID), which directly transfers knowledge from the teacher. WID does not require any additional alignment loss and trains a compact student by inheriting the weights, showing a new perspective of knowledge distillation. Specifically, we design the row compactors and column compactors as mappings and then compress the weights via structural re-parameterization. Experimental results on the GLUE and SQuAD benchmarks show that WID outperforms previous state-of-the-art KD-based baselines. Further analysis indicates that WID can also learn the attention patterns from the teacher model without any alignment loss on attention distributions. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Is a Video worth $n\times n$ Images? A Highly Efficient Approach to  Transformer-based Video Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09107  
**Abstract:** Conventional Transformer-based Video Question Answering (VideoQA) approaches generally encode frames independently through one or more image encoders followed by interaction between frames and question. However, such schema would incur significant memory use and inevitably slow down the training and inference speed. In this work, we present a highly efficient approach for VideoQA based on existing vision-language pre-trained models where we concatenate video frames to a $n\times n$ matrix and then convert it to one image. By doing so, we reduce the use of the image encoder from $n^{2}$ to $1$ while maintaining the temporal structure of the original video. Experimental results on MSRVTT and TrafficQA show that our proposed approach achieves state-of-the-art performance with nearly $4\times$ faster speed and only 30% memory use. We show that by integrating our approach into VideoQA systems we can achieve comparable, even superior, performance with a significant speed up for training and inference. We believe the proposed approach can facilitate VideoQA-related research by reducing the computational requirements for those who have limited access to budgets and resources. Our code will be made publicly available for research use. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** A deep learning method for multi-material diffusion problems based on  physics-informed neural networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09125  
**Abstract:** Given the facts of the extensiveness of multi-material diffusion problems and the inability of the standard PINN(Physics-Informed Neural Networks) method for such problems, in this paper we present a novel PINN method that can accurately solve the multi-material diffusion equation. The new method applies continuity conditions at the material interface derived from the property of the diffusion equation, and combines the distinctive spatial separation strategy and the loss term normalization strategy to solve the problem that the residual points cannot be arranged at the material interface, the problem that it is difficult to express non-smooth functions with a single neural network, and the problem that the neural network is difficult to optimize the loss function with different magnitudes of loss terms, which finally provides the available prediction function for a class of multi-material diffusion problems. Numerical experiments verify the robustness and effectiveness of the new method. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** CDDM: Channel Denoising Diffusion Models for Wireless Communications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09161  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models (DM) can gradually learn to remove noise, which have been widely used in artificial intelligence generated content (AIGC) in recent years. The property of DM for removing noise leads us to wonder whether DM can be applied to wireless communications to help the receiver eliminate the channel noise. To address this, we propose channel denoising diffusion models (CDDM) for wireless communications in this paper. CDDM can be applied as a new physical layer module after the channel equalization to learn the distribution of the channel input signal, and then utilizes this learned knowledge to remove the channel noise. We design corresponding training and sampling algorithms for the forward diffusion process and the reverse sampling process of CDDM. Moreover, we apply CDDM to a semantic communications system based on joint source-channel coding (JSCC). Experimental results demonstrate that CDDM can further reduce the mean square error (MSE) after minimum mean square error (MMSE) equalizer, and the joint CDDM and JSCC system achieves better performance than the JSCC system and the traditional JPEG2000 with low-density parity-check (LDPC) code approach. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Unlearnable Examples Give a False Sense of Security: Piercing through  Unexploitable Data with Learnable Examples  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09241  
**Abstract:** Safeguarding data from unauthorized exploitation is vital for privacy and security, especially in recent rampant research in security breach such as adversarial/membership attacks. To this end, \textit{unlearnable examples} (UEs) have been recently proposed as a compelling protection, by adding imperceptible perturbation to data so that models trained on them cannot classify them accurately on original clean distribution. Unfortunately, we find UEs provide a false sense of security, because they cannot stop unauthorized users from utilizing other unprotected data to remove the protection, by turning unlearnable data into learnable again. Motivated by this observation, we formally define a new threat by introducing \textit{learnable unauthorized examples} (LEs) which are UEs with their protection removed. The core of this approach is a novel purification process that projects UEs onto the manifold of LEs. This is realized by a new joint-conditional diffusion model which denoises UEs conditioned on the pixel and perceptual similarity between UEs and LEs. Extensive experiments demonstrate that LE delivers state-of-the-art countering performance against both supervised UEs and unsupervised UEs in various scenarios, which is the first generalizable countermeasure to UEs across supervised learning and unsupervised learning. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** QB4AIRA: A Question Bank for AI Risk Assessment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09300  
**Abstract:** The rapid advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AI), exemplified by ChatGPT, has raised concerns about the responsible development and utilization of AI systems. To address these concerns, AI ethics principles have been established, emphasizing the need for risk assessment frameworks to ensure adherence to ethical and societal considerations. However, existing frameworks lack a comprehensive and organized synthesis of dedicated AI risk assessment questions. Coping with this limitation, we present a novel question bank for AI Risk Assessment (QB4AIRA), which is developed through the collection and refinement of questions from five globally-known AI risk frameworks, categorized according to Australia AI ethics principles. QB4AIRA consists of 291 questions, covering a wide range of AI risk areas and providing a standardized approach to AI risk assessment. The questions are prioritized based on their importance and level of detail, facilitating effective AI risk assessment. QB4AIRA serves as a valuable resource for various stakeholders to assess and manage potential risks associated with AI systems. By promoting responsible and ethical AI practices, QB4AIRA contributes to the responsible deployment of AI systems and mitigates potential risks and harms. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Exploring the Impact of Layer Normalization for Zero-shot Neural Machine  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09312  
**Abstract:** This paper studies the impact of layer normalization (LayerNorm) on zero-shot translation (ZST). Recent efforts for ZST often utilize the Transformer architecture as the backbone, with LayerNorm at the input of layers (PreNorm) set as the default. However, Xu et al. (2019) has revealed that PreNorm carries the risk of overfitting the training data. Based on this, we hypothesize that PreNorm may overfit supervised directions and thus have low generalizability for ZST. Through experiments on OPUS, IWSLT, and Europarl datasets for 54 ZST directions, we demonstrate that the original Transformer setting of LayerNorm after residual connections (PostNorm) consistently outperforms PreNorm by up to 12.3 BLEU points. We then study the performance disparities by analyzing the differences in off-target rates and structural variations between PreNorm and PostNorm. This study highlights the need for careful consideration of the LayerNorm setting for ZST. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** BERTTM: Leveraging Contextualized Word Embeddings from Pre-trained  Language Models for Neural Topic Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09329  
**Abstract:** With the development of neural topic models in recent years, topic modelling is playing an increasingly important role in natural language understanding. However, most existing topic models still rely on bag-of-words (BoW) information, either as training input or training target. This limits their ability to capture word order information in documents and causes them to suffer from the out-of-vocabulary (OOV) issue, i.e. they cannot handle unobserved words in new documents. Contextualized word embeddings from pre-trained language models show superiority in the ability of word sense disambiguation and prove to be effective in dealing with OOV words. In this work, we developed a novel neural topic model combining contextualized word embeddings from the pre-trained language model BERT. The model can infer the topic distribution of a document without using any BoW information. In addition, the model can infer the topic distribution of each word in a document directly from the contextualized word embeddings. Experiments on several datasets show that our model outperforms existing topic models in terms of both document classification and topic coherence metrics and can accommodate unseen words from newly arrived documents. Experiments on the NER dataset also show that our model can produce high-quality word topic representations. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Blind Image Quality Assessment via Transformer Predicted Error Map and  Perceptual Quality Token  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09353  
**Abstract:** Image quality assessment is a fundamental problem in the field of image processing, and due to the lack of reference images in most practical scenarios, no-reference image quality assessment (NR-IQA), has gained increasing attention recently. With the development of deep learning technology, many deep neural network-based NR-IQA methods have been developed, which try to learn the image quality based on the understanding of database information. Currently, Transformer has achieved remarkable progress in various vision tasks. Since the characteristics of the attention mechanism in Transformer fit the global perceptual impact of artifacts perceived by a human, Transformer is thus well suited for image quality assessment tasks. In this paper, we propose a Transformer based NR-IQA model using a predicted objective error map and perceptual quality token. Specifically, we firstly generate the predicted error map by pre-training one model consisting of a Transformer encoder and decoder, in which the objective difference between the distorted and the reference images is used as supervision. Then, we freeze the parameters of the pre-trained model and design another branch using the vision Transformer to extract the perceptual quality token for feature fusion with the predicted error map. Finally, the fused features are regressed to the final image quality score. Extensive experiments have shown that our proposed method outperforms the current state-of-the-art in both authentic and synthetic image databases. Moreover, the attentional map extracted by the perceptual quality token also does conform to the characteristics of the human visual system. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Constructing and Interpreting Causal Knowledge Graphs from News  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09359  
**Abstract:** Many jobs rely on news to learn about causal events in the past and present, to make informed decisions and predictions about the future. With the ever-increasing amount of news and text available on the internet, there is a need to automate the extraction of causal events from unstructured texts. In this work, we propose a methodology to construct causal knowledge graphs (KGs) from news using two steps: (1) Extraction of Causal Relations, and (2) Argument Clustering and Representation into KG. We aim to build graphs that emphasize on recall, precision and interpretability. For extraction, although many earlier works already construct causal KGs from text, most adopt rudimentary pattern-based methods. We close this gap by using the latest BERT-based extraction models alongside pattern-based ones. As a result, we achieved a high recall, while still maintaining a high precision. For clustering, we utilized a topic modelling approach to cluster our arguments, so as to increase the connectivity of our graph. As a result, instead of 15,686 disconnected subgraphs, we were able to obtain 1 connected graph that enables users to infer more causal relationships from. Our final KG effectively captures and conveys causal relationships, validated through multiple use cases and user feedback. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** GIFT: Graph-Induced Fine-Tuning for Multi-Party Conversation  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09360  
**Abstract:** Addressing the issues of who saying what to whom in multi-party conversations (MPCs) has recently attracted a lot of research attention. However, existing methods on MPC understanding typically embed interlocutors and utterances into sequential information flows, or utilize only the superficial of inherent graph structures in MPCs. To this end, we present a plug-and-play and lightweight method named graph-induced fine-tuning (GIFT) which can adapt various Transformer-based pre-trained language models (PLMs) for universal MPC understanding. In detail, the full and equivalent connections among utterances in regular Transformer ignore the sparse but distinctive dependency of an utterance on another in MPCs. To distinguish different relationships between utterances, four types of edges are designed to integrate graph-induced signals into attention mechanisms to refine PLMs originally designed for processing sequential texts. We evaluate GIFT by implementing it into three PLMs, and test the performance on three downstream tasks including addressee recognition, speaker identification and response selection. Experimental results show that GIFT can significantly improve the performance of three PLMs on three downstream tasks and two benchmarks with only 4 additional parameters per encoding layer, achieving new state-of-the-art performance on MPC understanding. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** AMD Autoregressive Motion Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09381  
**Abstract:** Human motion generation aims to produce plausible human motion sequences according to various conditional inputs, such as text or audio. Despite the feasibility of existing methods in generating motion based on short prompts and simple motion patterns, they encounter difficulties when dealing with long prompts or complex motions. The challenges are two-fold: 1) the scarcity of human motion-captured data for long prompts and complex motions. 2) the high diversity of human motions in the temporal domain and the substantial divergence of distributions from conditional modalities, leading to a many-to-many mapping problem when generating motion with complex and long texts. In this work, we address these gaps by 1) elaborating the first dataset pairing long textual descriptions and 3D complex motions (HumanLong3D), and 2) proposing an autoregressive motion diffusion model (AMD). Specifically, AMD integrates the text prompt at the current timestep with the text prompt and action sequences at the previous timestep as conditional information to predict the current action sequences in an iterative manner. Furthermore, we present its generalization for X-to-Motion with "No Modality Left Behind", enabling for the first time the generation of high-definition and high-fidelity human motions based on user-defined modality input. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Diffusion Dataset Generation: Towards Closing the Sim2Real Gap for  Pedestrian Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09401  
**Abstract:** We propose a method that augments a simulated dataset using diffusion models to improve the performance of pedestrian detection in real-world data. The high cost of collecting and annotating data in the real-world has motivated the use of simulation platforms to create training datasets. While simulated data is inexpensive to collect and annotate, it unfortunately does not always closely match the distribution of real-world data, which is known as the sim2real gap. In this paper we propose a novel method of synthetic data creation meant to close the sim2real gap for the challenging pedestrian detection task. Our method uses a diffusion-based architecture to learn a real-world distribution which, once trained, is used to generate datasets. We mix this generated data with simulated data as a form of augmentation and show that training on a combination of generated and simulated data increases average precision by as much as 27.3% for pedestrian detection models in real-world data, compared against training on purely simulated data. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** A Preliminary Analysis on the Code Generation Capabilities of GPT-3.5  and Bard AI Models for Java Functions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09402  
**Abstract:** This paper evaluates the capability of two state-of-the-art artificial intelligence (AI) models, GPT-3.5 and Bard, in generating Java code given a function description. We sourced the descriptions from CodingBat.com, a popular online platform that provides practice problems to learn programming. We compared the Java code generated by both models based on correctness, verified through the platform's own test cases. The results indicate clear differences in the capabilities of the two models. GPT-3.5 demonstrated superior performance, generating correct code for approximately 90.6% of the function descriptions, whereas Bard produced correct code for 53.1% of the functions. While both models exhibited strengths and weaknesses, these findings suggest potential avenues for the development and refinement of more advanced AI-assisted code generation tools. The study underlines the potential of AI in automating and supporting aspects of software development, although further research is required to fully realize this potential. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Chatting with GPT-3 for Zero-Shot Human-Like Mobile Automated GUI  Testing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09434  
**Abstract:** Mobile apps are indispensable for people's daily life, and automated GUI (Graphical User Interface) testing is widely used for app quality assurance. There is a growing interest in using learning-based techniques for automated GUI testing which aims at generating human-like actions and interactions. However, the limitations such as low testing coverage, weak generalization, and heavy reliance on training data, make an urgent need for a more effective approach to generate human-like actions to thoroughly test mobile apps. Inspired by the success of the Large Language Model (LLM), e.g., GPT-3 and ChatGPT, in natural language understanding and question answering, we formulate the mobile GUI testing problem as a Q&A task. We propose GPTDroid, asking LLM to chat with the mobile apps by passing the GUI page information to LLM to elicit testing scripts, and executing them to keep passing the app feedback to LLM, iterating the whole process. Within it, we extract the static context of the GUI page and the dynamic context of the iterative testing process, design prompts for inputting this information to LLM, and develop a neural matching network to decode the LLM's output into actionable steps to execute the app. We evaluate GPTDroid on 86 apps from Google Play, and its activity coverage is 71%, with 32% higher than the best baseline, and can detect 36% more bugs with faster speed than the best baseline. GPTDroid also detects 48 new bugs on the Google Play with 25 of them being confirmed/fixed. We further summarize the capabilities of GPTDroid behind the superior performance, including semantic text input, compound action, long meaningful test trace, and test case prioritization. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** MPI-rical: Data-Driven MPI Distributed Parallelism Assistance with  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09438  
**Abstract:** Automatic source-to-source parallelization of serial code for shared and distributed memory systems is a challenging task in high-performance computing. While many attempts were made to translate serial code into parallel code for a shared memory environment (usually using OpenMP), none has managed to do so for a distributed memory environment. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, called MPI-rical, for automated MPI code generation using a transformer-based model trained on approximately 25,000 serial code snippets and their corresponding parallelized MPI code out of more than 50,000 code snippets in our corpus (MPICodeCorpus). To evaluate the performance of the model, we first break down the serial code to MPI-based parallel code translation problem into two sub-problems and develop two research objectives: code completion defined as given a location in the source code, predict the MPI function for that location, and code translation defined as predicting an MPI function as well as its location in the source code. We evaluate MPI-rical on MPICodeCorpus dataset and on real-world scientific code benchmarks and compare its performance between the code completion and translation tasks. Our experimental results show that while MPI-rical performs better on the code completion task than the code translation task, the latter is better suited for real-world programming assistance, in which the tool suggests the need for an MPI function regardless of prior knowledge. Overall, our approach represents a significant step forward in automating the parallelization of serial code for distributed memory systems, which can save valuable time and resources for software developers and researchers. The source code used in this work, as well as other relevant sources, are available at: https://github.com/Scientific-Computing-Lab-NRCN/MPI-rical 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Multi-Level Global Context Cross Consistency Model for Semi-Supervised  Ultrasound Image Segmentation with Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09447  
**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation is a critical step in computer-aided diagnosis, and convolutional neural networks are popular segmentation networks nowadays. However, the inherent local operation characteristics make it difficult to focus on the global contextual information of lesions with different positions, shapes, and sizes. Semi-supervised learning can be used to learn from both labeled and unlabeled samples, alleviating the burden of manual labeling. However, obtaining a large number of unlabeled images in medical scenarios remains challenging. To address these issues, we propose a Multi-level Global Context Cross-consistency (MGCC) framework that uses images generated by a Latent Diffusion Model (LDM) as unlabeled images for semi-supervised learning. The framework involves of two stages. In the first stage, a LDM is used to generate synthetic medical images, which reduces the workload of data annotation and addresses privacy concerns associated with collecting medical data. In the second stage, varying levels of global context noise perturbation are added to the input of the auxiliary decoder, and output consistency is maintained between decoders to improve the representation ability. Experiments conducted on open-source breast ultrasound and private thyroid ultrasound datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework in bridging the probability distribution and the semantic representation of the medical image. Our approach enables the effective transfer of probability distribution knowledge to the segmentation network, resulting in improved segmentation accuracy. The code is available at https://github.com/FengheTan9/Multi-Level Global-Context-Cross-Consistency. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Rethinking the editing of generative adversarial networks: a method to  estimate editing vectors based on dimension reduction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09454  
**Abstract:** While Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have recently found applications in image editing, most previous GAN-based image editing methods require largescale datasets with semantic segmentation annotations for training, only provide high level control, or merely interpolate between different images. Previous researchers have proposed EditGAN for high-quality, high-precision semantic image editing with limited semantic annotations by finding `editing vectors'. However, it is noticed that there are many features that are not highly associated with semantics, and EditGAN may fail on them. Based on the orthogonality of latent space observed by EditGAN, we propose a method to estimate editing vectors that do not rely on semantic segmentation nor differentiable feature estimation network. Our method assumes that there is a correlation between the intensity distribution of features and the distribution of hidden vectors, and estimates the relationship between the above distributions by sampling the feature intensity of the image corresponding to several hidden vectors. We modified Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) to deal with both binary feature editing and continuous feature editing. We then found that this method has a good effect in processing features such as clothing type and texture, skin color and hair. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Discrete Diffusion Probabilistic Models for Symbolic Music Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09489  
**Abstract:** Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) have made great strides in generating high-quality samples in both discrete and continuous domains. However, Discrete DDPMs (D3PMs) have yet to be applied to the domain of Symbolic Music. This work presents the direct generation of Polyphonic Symbolic Music using D3PMs. Our model exhibits state-of-the-art sample quality, according to current quantitative evaluation metrics, and allows for flexible infilling at the note level. We further show, that our models are accessible to post-hoc classifier guidance, widening the scope of possible applications. However, we also cast a critical view on quantitative evaluation of music sample quality via statistical metrics, and present a simple algorithm that can confound our metrics with completely spurious, non-musical samples. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** AR-Diffusion: Auto-Regressive Diffusion Model for Text Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09515  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have gained significant attention in the realm of image generation due to their exceptional performance. Their success has been recently expanded to text generation via generating all tokens within a sequence concurrently. However, natural language exhibits a far more pronounced sequential dependency in comparison to images, and the majority of existing language models are trained utilizing a left-to-right auto-regressive approach. To account for the inherent sequential characteristic of natural language, we introduce Auto-Regressive Diffusion (AR-Diffusion). AR-Diffusion ensures that the generation of tokens on the right depends on the generated ones on the left, a mechanism achieved through employing a dynamic number of denoising steps that vary based on token position. This results in tokens on the left undergoing fewer denoising steps than those on the right, thereby enabling them to generate earlier and subsequently influence the generation of tokens on the right. In a series of experiments on various text generation tasks including text summarization, machine translation, and common sense generation, AR-Diffusion clearly demonstrated the superiority over existing diffusion language models and that it can be $100\times\sim600\times$ faster when achieving comparable results. Our code will be publicly released. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** DLUE: Benchmarking Document Language Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09520  
**Abstract:** Understanding documents is central to many real-world tasks but remains a challenging topic. Unfortunately, there is no well-established consensus on how to comprehensively evaluate document understanding abilities, which significantly hinders the fair comparison and measuring the progress of the field. To benchmark document understanding researches, this paper summarizes four representative abilities, i.e., document classification, document structural analysis, document information extraction, and document transcription. Under the new evaluation framework, we propose \textbf{Document Language Understanding Evaluation} -- \textbf{DLUE}, a new task suite which covers a wide-range of tasks in various forms, domains and document genres. We also systematically evaluate six well-established transformer models on DLUE, and find that due to the lengthy content, complicated underlying structure and dispersed knowledge, document understanding is still far from being solved, and currently there is no neural architecture that dominates all tasks, raising requirements for a universal document understanding architecture. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** NightHazeFormer: Single Nighttime Haze Removal Using Prior Query  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09533  
**Abstract:** Nighttime image dehazing is a challenging task due to the presence of multiple types of adverse degrading effects including glow, haze, blurry, noise, color distortion, and so on. However, most previous studies mainly focus on daytime image dehazing or partial degradations presented in nighttime hazy scenes, which may lead to unsatisfactory restoration results. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end transformer-based framework for nighttime haze removal, called NightHazeFormer. Our proposed approach consists of two stages: supervised pre-training and semi-supervised fine-tuning. During the pre-training stage, we introduce two powerful priors into the transformer decoder to generate the non-learnable prior queries, which guide the model to extract specific degradations. For the fine-tuning, we combine the generated pseudo ground truths with input real-world nighttime hazy images as paired images and feed into the synthetic domain to fine-tune the pre-trained model. This semi-supervised fine-tuning paradigm helps improve the generalization to real domain. In addition, we also propose a large-scale synthetic dataset called UNREAL-NH, to simulate the real-world nighttime haze scenarios comprehensively. Extensive experiments on several synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate the superiority of our NightHazeFormer over state-of-the-art nighttime haze removal methods in terms of both visually and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Public Perception of Generative AI on Twitter: An Empirical Study Based  on Occupation and Usage  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09537  
**Abstract:** The emergence of generative AI has sparked substantial discussions, with the potential to have profound impacts on society in all aspects. As emerging technologies continue to advance, it is imperative to facilitate their proper integration into society, managing expectations and fear. This paper investigates users' perceptions of generative AI using 3M posts on Twitter from January 2019 to March 2023, especially focusing on their occupation and usage. We find that people across various occupations, not just IT-related ones, show a strong interest in generative AI. The sentiment toward generative AI is generally positive, and remarkably, their sentiments are positively correlated with their exposure to AI. Among occupations, illustrators show exceptionally negative sentiment mainly due to concerns about the unethical usage of artworks in constructing AI. People use ChatGPT in diverse ways, and notably the casual usage in which they "play with" ChatGPT tends to associate with positive sentiments. After the release of ChatGPT, people's interest in AI in general has increased dramatically; however, the topic with the most significant increase and positive sentiment is related to crypto, indicating the hype-worthy characteristics of generative AI. These findings would offer valuable lessons for policymaking on the emergence of new technology and also empirical insights for the considerations of future human-AI symbiosis. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Measuring Stereotypes using Entity-Centric Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09548  
**Abstract:** Stereotypes inform how we present ourselves and others, and in turn how we behave. They are thus important to measure. Recent work has used projections of embeddings from Distributional Semantic Models (DSMs), such as BERT, to perform these measurements. However, DSMs capture cognitive associations that are not necessarily relevant to the interpersonal nature of stereotyping. Here, we propose and evaluate three novel, entity-centric methods for learning stereotypes from Twitter and Wikipedia biographies. Models are trained by leveraging the fact that multiple phrases are applied to the same person, magnifying the person-centric nature of the learned associations. We show that these models outperform existing approaches to stereotype measurement with respect to 1) predicting which identities people apply to themselves and others, and 2) quantifying stereotypes on salient social dimensions (e.g. gender). Via a case study, we also show the utility of these models for future questions in computational social science. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Life of PII -- A PII Obfuscation Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09550  
**Abstract:** Protecting sensitive information is crucial in today's world of Large Language Models (LLMs) and data-driven services. One common method used to preserve privacy is by using data perturbation techniques to reduce overreaching utility of (sensitive) Personal Identifiable Information (PII) data while maintaining its statistical and semantic properties. Data perturbation methods often result in significant information loss, making them impractical for use. In this paper, we propose 'Life of PII', a novel Obfuscation Transformer framework for transforming PII into faux-PII while preserving the original information, intent, and context as much as possible. Our approach includes an API to interface with the given document, a configuration-based obfuscator, and a model based on the Transformer architecture, which has shown high context preservation and performance in natural language processing tasks and LLMs. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Adapting Sentence Transformers for the Aviation Domain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09556  
**Abstract:** Learning effective sentence representations is crucial for many Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks, including semantic search, semantic textual similarity (STS), and clustering. While multiple transformer models have been developed for sentence embedding learning, these models may not perform optimally when dealing with specialized domains like aviation, which has unique characteristics such as technical jargon, abbreviations, and unconventional grammar. Furthermore, the absence of labeled datasets makes it difficult to train models specifically for the aviation domain. To address these challenges, we propose a novel approach for adapting sentence transformers for the aviation domain. Our method is a two-stage process consisting of pre-training followed by fine-tuning. During pre-training, we use Transformers and Sequential Denoising AutoEncoder (TSDAE) with aviation text data as input to improve the initial model performance. Subsequently, we fine-tune our models using a Natural Language Inference (NLI) dataset in the Sentence Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (SBERT) architecture to mitigate overfitting issues. Experimental results on several downstream tasks show that our adapted sentence transformers significantly outperform general-purpose transformers, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach in capturing the nuances of the aviation domain. Overall, our work highlights the importance of domain-specific adaptation in developing high-quality NLP solutions for specialized industries like aviation. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Ray-Patch: An Efficient Decoder for Light Field Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09566  
**Abstract:** In this paper we propose the Ray-Patch decoder, a novel model to efficiently query transformers to decode implicit representations into target views. Our Ray-Patch decoding reduces the computational footprint up to two orders of magnitude compared to previous models, without losing global attention, and hence maintaining specific task metrics. The key idea of our novel decoder is to split the target image into a set of patches, then querying the transformer for each patch to extract a set of feature vectors, which are finally decoded into the target image using convolutional layers. Our experimental results quantify the effectiveness of our method, specifically the notable boost in rendering speed and equal specific task metrics for different baselines and datasets. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Urban-StyleGAN: Learning to Generate and Manipulate Images of Urban  Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09602  
**Abstract:** A promise of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) is to provide cheap photorealistic data for training and validating AI models in autonomous driving. Despite their huge success, their performance on complex images featuring multiple objects is understudied. While some frameworks produce high-quality street scenes with little to no control over the image content, others offer more control at the expense of high-quality generation. A common limitation of both approaches is the use of global latent codes for the whole image, which hinders the learning of independent object distributions. Motivated by SemanticStyleGAN (SSG), a recent work on latent space disentanglement in human face generation, we propose a novel framework, Urban-StyleGAN, for urban scene generation and manipulation. We find that a straightforward application of SSG leads to poor results because urban scenes are more complex than human faces. To provide a more compact yet disentangled latent representation, we develop a class grouping strategy wherein individual classes are grouped into super-classes. Moreover, we employ an unsupervised latent exploration algorithm in the $\mathcal{S}$-space of the generator and show that it is more efficient than the conventional $\mathcal{W}^{+}$-space in controlling the image content. Results on the Cityscapes and Mapillary datasets show the proposed approach achieves significantly more controllability and improved image quality than previous approaches on urban scenes and is on par with general-purpose non-controllable generative models (like StyleGAN2) in terms of quality. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** StructGPT: A General Framework for Large Language Model to Reason over  Structured Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09645  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we study how to improve the zero-shot reasoning ability of large language models~(LLMs) over structured data in a unified way. Inspired by the study on tool augmentation for LLMs, we develop an \emph{Iterative Reading-then-Reasoning~(IRR)} approach for solving question answering tasks based on structured data, called \textbf{StructGPT}. In our approach, we construct the specialized function to collect relevant evidence from structured data (\ie \emph{reading}), and let LLMs concentrate the reasoning task based on the collected information (\ie \emph{reasoning}). Specially, we propose an \emph{invoking-linearization-generation} procedure to support LLMs in reasoning on the structured data with the help of the external interfaces. By iterating this procedures with provided interfaces, our approach can gradually approach the target answer to a given query. Extensive experiments conducted on three types of structured data demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, which can significantly boost the performance of ChatGPT and achieve comparable performance against the full-data supervised-tuning baselines. Our codes and data are publicly available at~\url{https://github.com/RUCAIBox/StructGPT}. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Prompt-Tuning Decision Transformer with Preference Ranking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09648  
**Abstract:** Prompt-tuning has emerged as a promising method for adapting pre-trained models to downstream tasks or aligning with human preferences. Prompt learning is widely used in NLP but has limited applicability to RL due to the complex physical meaning and environment-specific information contained within RL prompts. These factors require supervised learning to imitate the demonstrations and may result in a loss of meaning after learning. Additionally, directly extending prompt-tuning approaches to RL is challenging because RL prompts guide agent behavior based on environmental modeling and analysis, rather than filling in missing information, making it unlikely that adjustments to the prompt format for downstream tasks, as in NLP, can yield significant improvements. In this work, we propose the Prompt-Tuning DT algorithm to address these challenges by using trajectory segments as prompts to guide RL agents in acquiring environmental information and optimizing prompts via black-box tuning to enhance their ability to contain more relevant information, thereby enabling agents to make better decisions. Our approach involves randomly sampling a Gaussian distribution to fine-tune the elements of the prompt trajectory and using preference ranking function to find the optimization direction, thereby providing more informative prompts and guiding the agent towards specific preferences in the target environment. Extensive experiments show that with only 0.03% of the parameters learned, Prompt-Tuning DT achieves comparable or even better performance than full-model fine-tuning in low-data scenarios. Our work contributes to the advancement of prompt-tuning approaches in RL, providing a promising direction for optimizing large RL agents for specific preference tasks. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Make-An-Animation: Large-Scale Text-conditional 3D Human Motion  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09662  
**Abstract:** Text-guided human motion generation has drawn significant interest because of its impactful applications spanning animation and robotics. Recently, application of diffusion models for motion generation has enabled improvements in the quality of generated motions. However, existing approaches are limited by their reliance on relatively small-scale motion capture data, leading to poor performance on more diverse, in-the-wild prompts. In this paper, we introduce Make-An-Animation, a text-conditioned human motion generation model which learns more diverse poses and prompts from large-scale image-text datasets, enabling significant improvement in performance over prior works. Make-An-Animation is trained in two stages. First, we train on a curated large-scale dataset of (text, static pseudo-pose) pairs extracted from image-text datasets. Second, we fine-tune on motion capture data, adding additional layers to model the temporal dimension. Unlike prior diffusion models for motion generation, Make-An-Animation uses a U-Net architecture similar to recent text-to-video generation models. Human evaluation of motion realism and alignment with input text shows that our model reaches state-of-the-art performance on text-to-motion generation. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Understanding 3D Object Interaction from a Single Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09664  
**Abstract:** Humans can easily understand a single image as depicting multiple potential objects permitting interaction. We use this skill to plan our interactions with the world and accelerate understanding new objects without engaging in interaction. In this paper, we would like to endow machines with the similar ability, so that intelligent agents can better explore the 3D scene or manipulate objects. Our approach is a transformer-based model that predicts the 3D location, physical properties and affordance of objects. To power this model, we collect a dataset with Internet videos, egocentric videos and indoor images to train and validate our approach. Our model yields strong performance on our data, and generalizes well to robotics data. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** A Conditional Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model for Radio  Interferometric Image Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09121  
**Abstract:** In radio astronomy, signals from radio telescopes are transformed into images of observed celestial objects, or sources. However, these images, called dirty images, contain real sources as well as artifacts due to signal sparsity and other factors. Therefore, radio interferometric image reconstruction is performed on dirty images, aiming to produce clean images in which artifacts are reduced and real sources are recovered. So far, existing methods have limited success on recovering faint sources, preserving detailed structures, and eliminating artifacts. In this paper, we present VIC-DDPM, a Visibility and Image Conditioned Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model. Our main idea is to use both the original visibility data in the spectral domain and dirty images in the spatial domain to guide the image generation process with DDPM. This way, we can leverage DDPM to generate fine details and eliminate noise, while utilizing visibility data to separate signals from noise and retaining spatial information in dirty images. We have conducted experiments in comparison with both traditional methods and recent deep learning based approaches. Our results show that our method significantly improves the resulting images by reducing artifacts, preserving fine details, and recovering dim sources. This advancement further facilitates radio astronomical data analysis tasks on celestial phenomena. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** CB-HVTNet: A channel-boosted hybrid vision transformer network for  lymphocyte assessment in histopathological images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09211  
**Abstract:** Transformers, due to their ability to learn long range dependencies, have overcome the shortcomings of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for global perspective learning. Therefore, they have gained the focus of researchers for several vision related tasks including medical diagnosis. However, their multi-head attention module only captures global level feature representations, which is insufficient for medical images. To address this issue, we propose a Channel Boosted Hybrid Vision Transformer (CB HVT) that uses transfer learning to generate boosted channels and employs both transformers and CNNs to analyse lymphocytes in histopathological images. The proposed CB HVT comprises five modules, including a channel generation module, channel exploitation module, channel merging module, region-aware module, and a detection and segmentation head, which work together to effectively identify lymphocytes. The channel generation module uses the idea of channel boosting through transfer learning to extract diverse channels from different auxiliary learners. In the CB HVT, these boosted channels are first concatenated and ranked using an attention mechanism in the channel exploitation module. A fusion block is then utilized in the channel merging module for a gradual and systematic merging of the diverse boosted channels to improve the network's learning representations. The CB HVT also employs a proposal network in its region aware module and a head to effectively identify objects, even in overlapping regions and with artifacts. We evaluated the proposed CB HVT on two publicly available datasets for lymphocyte assessment in histopathological images. The results show that CB HVT outperformed other state of the art detection models, and has good generalization ability, demonstrating its value as a tool for pathologists. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Improved Type III solar radio burst detection using congruent deep  learning models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09327  
**Abstract:** Solar flares are energetic events in the solar atmosphere that are often linked with solar radio bursts (SRBs). SRBs are observed at metric to decametric wavelengths and are classified into five spectral classes (Type I--V) based on their signature in dynamic spectra. The automatic detection and classification of SRBs is a challenge due to their heterogeneous form. Near-realtime detection and classification of SRBs has become a necessity in recent years due to large data rates generated by advanced radio telescopes such as the LOw Frequency ARray (LOFAR). In this study, we implement congruent deep learning models to automatically detect and classify Type III SRBs. We generated simulated Type III SRBs, which were comparable to Type IIIs seen in real observations, using a deep learning method known as Generative Adversarial Network (GAN). This simulated data was combined with observations from LOFAR to produce a training set that was used to train an object detection model known as YOLOv2 (You Only Look Once). Using this congruent deep learning model system, we can accurately detect Type III SRBs at a mean Average Precision (mAP) value of 77.71%. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Expressiveness Remarks for Denoising Diffusion Models and Samplers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09605  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models are a class of generative models which have recently achieved state-of-the-art results across many domains. Gradual noise is added to the data using a diffusion process, which transforms the data distribution into a Gaussian. Samples from the generative model are then obtained by simulating an approximation of the time reversal of this diffusion initialized by Gaussian samples. Recent research has explored adapting diffusion models for sampling and inference tasks. In this paper, we leverage known connections to stochastic control akin to the F\"ollmer drift to extend established neural network approximation results for the F\"ollmer drift to denoising diffusion models and samplers. 

