**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Pick your Poison: Undetectability versus Robustness in Data Poisoning  Attacks against Deep Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09671  
**Abstract:** Deep image classification models trained on large amounts of web-scraped data are vulnerable to data poisoning, a mechanism for backdooring models. Even a few poisoned samples seen during training can entirely undermine the model's integrity during inference. While it is known that poisoning more samples enhances an attack's effectiveness and robustness, it is unknown whether poisoning too many samples weakens an attack by making it more detectable. We observe a fundamental detectability/robustness trade-off in data poisoning attacks: Poisoning too few samples renders an attack ineffective and not robust, but poisoning too many samples makes it detectable. This raises the bar for data poisoning attackers who have to balance this trade-off to remain robust and undetectable. Our work proposes two defenses designed to (i) detect and (ii) repair poisoned models as a post-processing step after training using a limited amount of trusted image-label pairs. We show that our defenses mitigate all surveyed attacks and outperform existing defenses using less trusted data to repair a model. Our defense scales to joint vision-language models, such as CLIP, and interestingly, we find that attacks on larger models are more easily detectable but also more robust than those on smaller models. Lastly, we propose two adaptive attacks demonstrating that while our work raises the bar for data poisoning attacks, it cannot mitigate all forms of backdooring. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Vulnerability Detection Using Two-Stage Deep Learning Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09673  
**Abstract:** Application security is an essential part of developing modern software, as lots of attacks depend on vulnerabilities in software. The number of attacks is increasing globally due to technological advancements. Companies must include security in every stage of developing, testing, and deploying their software in order to prevent data breaches. There are several methods to detect software vulnerability Non-AI-based such as Static Application Security Testing (SAST) and Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST). However, these approaches have substantial false-positive and false-negative rates. On the other side, researchers have been interested in developing an AI-based vulnerability detection system employing deep learning models like BERT, BLSTM, etc. In this paper, we proposed a two-stage solution, two deep learning models were proposed for vulnerability detection in C/C++ source codes, the first stage is CNN which detects if the source code contains any vulnerability (binary classification model) and the second stage is CNN-LTSM that classifies this vulnerability into a class of 50 different types of vulnerabilities (multiclass classification model). Experiments were done on SySeVR dataset. Results show an accuracy of 99% for the first and 98% for the second stage. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** A Whisper transformer for audio captioning trained with synthetic  captions and transfer learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09690  
**Abstract:** The field of audio captioning has seen significant advancements in recent years, driven by the availability of large-scale audio datasets and advancements in deep learning techniques. In this technical report, we present our approach to audio captioning, focusing on the use of a pretrained speech-to-text Whisper model and pretraining on synthetic captions. We discuss our training procedures and present our experiments' results, which include model size variations, dataset mixtures, and other hyperparameters. Our findings demonstrate the impact of different training strategies on the performance of the audio captioning model. Our code and trained models are publicly available on GitHub and Hugging Face Hub. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Generative Table Pre-training Empowers Models for Tabular Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09696  
**Abstract:** Recently, the topic of table pre-training has attracted considerable research interest. However, how to employ table pre-training to boost the performance of tabular prediction remains an open challenge. In this paper, we propose TapTap, the first attempt that leverages table pre-training to empower models for tabular prediction. After pre-training on a large corpus of real-world tabular data, TapTap can generate high-quality synthetic tables to support various applications on tabular data, including privacy protection, low resource regime, missing value imputation, and imbalanced classification. Extensive experiments on 12 datasets demonstrate that TapTap outperforms a total of 16 baselines in different scenarios. Meanwhile, it can be easily combined with various backbone models, including LightGBM, Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) and Transformer. Moreover, with the aid of table pre-training, models trained using synthetic data generated by TapTap can even compete with models using the original dataset on half of the experimental datasets, marking a milestone in the development of synthetic tabular data generation. The codes are available at https://github.com/ZhangTP1996/TapTap. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Mobile User Interface Element Detection Via Adaptively Prompt Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09699  
**Abstract:** Recent object detection approaches rely on pretrained vision-language models for image-text alignment. However, they fail to detect the Mobile User Interface (MUI) element since it contains additional OCR information, which describes its content and function but is often ignored. In this paper, we develop a new MUI element detection dataset named MUI-zh and propose an Adaptively Prompt Tuning (APT) module to take advantage of discriminating OCR information. APT is a lightweight and effective module to jointly optimize category prompts across different modalities. For every element, APT uniformly encodes its visual features and OCR descriptions to dynamically adjust the representation of frozen category prompts. We evaluate the effectiveness of our plug-and-play APT upon several existing CLIP-based detectors for both standard and open-vocabulary MUI element detection. Extensive experiments show that our method achieves considerable improvements on two datasets. The datasets is available at \url{github.com/antmachineintelligence/MUI-zh}. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Dynamic Causal Explanation Based Diffusion-Variational Graph Neural  Network for Spatio-temporal Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09703  
**Abstract:** Graph neural networks (GNNs), especially dynamic GNNs, have become a research hotspot in spatio-temporal forecasting problems. While many dynamic graph construction methods have been developed, relatively few of them explore the causal relationship between neighbour nodes. Thus, the resulting models lack strong explainability for the causal relationship between the neighbour nodes of the dynamically generated graphs, which can easily lead to a risk in subsequent decisions. Moreover, few of them consider the uncertainty and noise of dynamic graphs based on the time series datasets, which are ubiquitous in real-world graph structure networks. In this paper, we propose a novel Dynamic Diffusion-Variational Graph Neural Network (DVGNN) for spatio-temporal forecasting. For dynamic graph construction, an unsupervised generative model is devised. Two layers of graph convolutional network (GCN) are applied to calculate the posterior distribution of the latent node embeddings in the encoder stage. Then, a diffusion model is used to infer the dynamic link probability and reconstruct causal graphs in the decoder stage adaptively. The new loss function is derived theoretically, and the reparameterization trick is adopted in estimating the probability distribution of the dynamic graphs by Evidence Lower Bound during the backpropagation period. After obtaining the generated graphs, dynamic GCN and temporal attention are applied to predict future states. Experiments are conducted on four real-world datasets of different graph structures in different domains. The results demonstrate that the proposed DVGNN model outperforms state-of-the-art approaches and achieves outstanding Root Mean Squared Error result while exhibiting higher robustness. Also, by F1-score and probability distribution analysis, we demonstrate that DVGNN better reflects the causal relationship and uncertainty of dynamic graphs. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** What In-Context Learning "Learns" In-Context: Disentangling Task  Recognition and Task Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09731  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) exploit in-context learning (ICL) to solve tasks with only a few demonstrations, but its mechanisms are not yet well-understood. Some works suggest that LLMs only recall already learned concepts from pre-training, while others hint that ICL performs implicit learning over demonstrations. We characterize two ways through which ICL leverages demonstrations. Task recognition (TR) captures the extent to which LLMs can recognize a task through demonstrations -- even without ground-truth labels -- and apply their pre-trained priors, whereas task learning (TL) is the ability to capture new input-label mappings unseen in pre-training. Using a wide range of classification datasets and three LLM families (GPT-3, LLaMA and OPT), we design controlled experiments to disentangle the roles of TR and TL in ICL. We show that (1) models can achieve non-trivial performance with only TR, and TR does not further improve with larger models or more demonstrations; (2) LLMs acquire TL as the model scales, and TL's performance consistently improves with more demonstrations in context. Our findings unravel two different forces behind ICL and we advocate for discriminating them in future ICL research due to their distinct nature. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** BSGAN: A Novel Oversampling Technique for Imbalanced Pattern  Recognitions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09777  
**Abstract:** Class imbalanced problems (CIP) are one of the potential challenges in developing unbiased Machine Learning (ML) models for predictions. CIP occurs when data samples are not equally distributed between the two or multiple classes. Borderline-Synthetic Minority Oversampling Techniques (SMOTE) is one of the approaches that has been used to balance the imbalance data by oversampling the minor (limited) samples. One of the potential drawbacks of existing Borderline-SMOTE is that it focuses on the data samples that lay at the border point and gives more attention to the extreme observations, ultimately limiting the creation of more diverse data after oversampling, and that is the almost scenario for the most of the borderline-SMOTE based oversampling strategies. As an effect, marginalization occurs after oversampling. To address these issues, in this work, we propose a hybrid oversampling technique by combining the power of borderline SMOTE and Generative Adversarial Network to generate more diverse data that follow Gaussian distributions. We named it BSGAN and tested it on four highly imbalanced datasets: Ecoli, Wine quality, Yeast, and Abalone. Our preliminary computational results reveal that BSGAN outperformed existing borderline SMOTE and GAN-based oversampling techniques and created a more diverse dataset that follows normal distribution after oversampling effect. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** A Comparative Study of GAN-Generated Handwriting Images and MNIST Images  using t-SNE Visualization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09786  
**Abstract:** The quality of GAN-generated images on the MNIST dataset was explored in this paper by comparing them to the original images using t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t- SNE) visualization. A GAN was trained with the dataset to generate images and the result of generating all synthetic images, the corresponding labels were saved. The dimensionality of the generated images and the original MNIST dataset was reduced using t-SNE and the resulting embeddings were plotted. The rate of the GAN-generated images was examined by comparing the t-SNE plots of the generated images and the original MNIST images. It was found that the GAN- generated images were similar to the original images but had some differences in the distribution of the features. It is believed that this study provides a useful evaluation method for assessing the quality of GAN-generated images and can help to improve their generation in the future. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** On Dataset Transferability in Active Learning for Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09807  
**Abstract:** Active learning (AL) aims to reduce labeling costs by querying the examples most beneficial for model learning. While the effectiveness of AL for fine-tuning transformer-based pre-trained language models (PLMs) has been demonstrated, it is less clear to what extent the AL gains obtained with one model transfer to others. We consider the problem of transferability of actively acquired datasets in text classification and investigate whether AL gains persist when a dataset built using AL coupled with a specific PLM is used to train a different PLM. We link the AL dataset transferability to the similarity of instances queried by the different PLMs and show that AL methods with similar acquisition sequences produce highly transferable datasets regardless of the models used. Additionally, we show that the similarity of acquisition sequences is influenced more by the choice of the AL method than the choice of the model. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** A Method for Training-free Person Image Picture Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09817  
**Abstract:** The current state-of-the-art Diffusion model has demonstrated excellent results in generating images. However, the images are monotonous and are mostly the result of the distribution of images of people in the training set, making it challenging to generate multiple images for a fixed number of individuals. This problem can often only be solved by fine-tuning the training of the model. This means that each individual/animated character image must be trained if it is to be drawn, and the hardware and cost of this training is often beyond the reach of the average user, who accounts for the largest number of people. To solve this problem, the Character Image Feature Encoder model proposed in this paper enables the user to use the process by simply providing a picture of the character to make the image of the character in the generated image match the expectation. In addition, various details can be adjusted during the process using prompts. Unlike traditional Image-to-Image models, the Character Image Feature Encoder extracts only the relevant image features, rather than information about the model's composition or movements. In addition, the Character Image Feature Encoder can be adapted to different models after training. The proposed model can be conveniently incorporated into the Stable Diffusion generation process without modifying the model's ontology or used in combination with Stable Diffusion as a joint model. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Machine-Made Media: Monitoring the Mobilization of Machine-Generated  Articles on Misinformation and Mainstream News Websites  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09820  
**Abstract:** With the increasing popularity of generative large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, an increasing number of news websites have begun utilizing them to generate articles. However, not only can these language models produce factually inaccurate articles on reputable websites but disreputable news sites can utilize these LLMs to mass produce misinformation. To begin to understand this phenomenon, we present one of the first large-scale studies of the prevalence of synthetic articles within online news media. To do this, we train a DeBERTa-based synthetic news detector and classify over 12.91 million articles from 3,074 misinformation and mainstream news websites. We find that between January 1, 2022 and April 1, 2023, the relative number of synthetic news articles increased by 79.4% on mainstream websites while increasing by 342% on misinformation sites. Analyzing the impact of the release of ChatGPT using an interrupted-time-series, we show that while its release resulted in a marked increase in synthetic articles on small sites as well as misinformation news websites, there was not a corresponding increase on large mainstream news websites. Finally, using data from the social media platform Reddit, we find that social media users interacted more with synthetic articles in March 2023 relative to January 2022. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Selective Guidance: Are All the Denoising Steps of Guided Diffusion  Important?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09847  
**Abstract:** This study examines the impact of optimizing the Stable Diffusion (SD) guided inference pipeline. We propose optimizing certain denoising steps by limiting the noise computation to conditional noise and eliminating unconditional noise computation, thereby reducing the complexity of the target iterations by 50%. Additionally, we demonstrate that later iterations of the SD are less sensitive to optimization, making them ideal candidates for applying the suggested optimization. Our experiments show that optimizing the last 20% of the denoising loop iterations results in an 8.2% reduction in inference time with almost no perceivable changes to the human eye. Furthermore, we found that by extending the optimization to 50% of the last iterations, we can reduce inference time by approximately 20.3%, while still generating visually pleasing images. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Knowledge Graph Completion Models are Few-shot Learners: An Empirical  Study of Relation Labeling in E-commerce with LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09858  
**Abstract:** Knowledge Graphs (KGs) play a crucial role in enhancing e-commerce system performance by providing structured information about entities and their relationships, such as complementary or substitutable relations between products or product types, which can be utilized in recommender systems. However, relation labeling in KGs remains a challenging task due to the dynamic nature of e-commerce domains and the associated cost of human labor. Recently, breakthroughs in Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown surprising results in numerous natural language processing tasks. In this paper, we conduct an empirical study of LLMs for relation labeling in e-commerce KGs, investigating their powerful learning capabilities in natural language and effectiveness in predicting relations between product types with limited labeled data. We evaluate various LLMs, including PaLM and GPT-3.5, on benchmark datasets, demonstrating their ability to achieve competitive performance compared to humans on relation labeling tasks using just 1 to 5 labeled examples per relation. Additionally, we experiment with different prompt engineering techniques to examine their impact on model performance. Our results show that LLMs significantly outperform existing KG completion models in relation labeling for e-commerce KGs and exhibit performance strong enough to replace human labeling. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Smaller Language Models are Better Black-box Machine-Generated Text  Detectors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09859  
**Abstract:** With the advent of fluent generative language models that can produce convincing utterances very similar to those written by humans, distinguishing whether a piece of text is machine-generated or human-written becomes more challenging and more important, as such models could be used to spread misinformation, fake news, fake reviews and to mimic certain authors and figures. To this end, there have been a slew of methods proposed to detect machine-generated text. Most of these methods need access to the logits of the target model or need the ability to sample from the target. One such black-box detection method relies on the observation that generated text is locally optimal under the likelihood function of the generator, while human-written text is not. We find that overall, smaller and partially-trained models are better universal text detectors: they can more precisely detect text generated from both small and larger models. Interestingly, we find that whether the detector and generator were trained on the same data is not critically important to the detection success. For instance the OPT-125M model has an AUC of 0.81 in detecting ChatGPT generations, whereas a larger model from the GPT family, GPTJ-6B, has AUC of 0.45. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** A survey of the Vision Transformers and its CNN-Transformer based  Variants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09880  
**Abstract:** Vision transformers have recently become popular as a possible alternative to convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for a variety of computer vision applications. These vision transformers due to their ability to focus on global relationships in images have large capacity, but may result in poor generalization as compared to CNNs. Very recently, the hybridization of convolution and self-attention mechanisms in vision transformers is gaining popularity due to their ability of exploiting both local and global image representations. These CNN-Transformer architectures also known as hybrid vision transformers have shown remarkable results for vision applications. Recently, due to the rapidly growing number of these hybrid vision transformers, there is a need for a taxonomy and explanation of these architectures. This survey presents a taxonomy of the recent vision transformer architectures, and more specifically that of the hybrid vision transformers. Additionally, the key features of each architecture such as the attention mechanisms, positional embeddings, multi-scale processing, and convolution are also discussed. This survey highlights the potential of hybrid vision transformers to achieve outstanding performance on a variety of computer vision tasks. Moreover, it also points towards the future directions of this rapidly evolving field. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Analyzing the Stance of Facebook Posts on Abortion Considering  State-level Health and Social Compositions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09889  
**Abstract:** Abortion remains one of the most controversial topics, especially after overturning Roe v. Wade ruling in the United States. Previous literature showed that the illegality of abortion could have serious consequences, as women might seek unsafe pregnancy terminations leading to increased maternal mortality rates and negative effects on their reproductive health. Therefore, the stances of the abortion-related Facebook posts were analyzed at the state level in the United States from May 4 until June 30, 2022, right after the Supreme Court's decision was disclosed. In more detail, the pre-trained Transformer architecture-based model was fine-tuned on a manually labeled training set to obtain a stance detection model suitable for the collected dataset. Afterward, we employed appropriate statistical tests to examine the relationships between public opinion regarding abortion, abortion legality, political leaning, and factors measuring the overall population's health, health knowledge, and vulnerability per state. We found that states with a higher number of views against abortion also have higher infant and maternal mortality rates. Furthermore, the stance of social media posts per state is mostly matching with the current abortion laws in these states. While aligned with existing literature, these findings indicate how public opinion, laws, and women's and infants' health are related, and interventions are required to educate and protect women, especially in vulnerable populations. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Equivariant Few-Shot Learning from Pretrained Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09900  
**Abstract:** Efficient transfer learning algorithms are key to the success of foundation models on diverse downstream tasks even with limited data. Recent works of \cite{basu2022equi} and \cite{kaba2022equivariance} propose group averaging (\textit{equitune}) and optimization-based methods, respectively, over features from group-transformed inputs to obtain equivariant outputs from non-equivariant neural networks. While \cite{kaba2022equivariance} are only concerned with training from scratch, we find that equitune performs poorly on equivariant zero-shot tasks despite good finetuning results. We hypothesize that this is because pretrained models provide better quality features for certain transformations than others and simply averaging them is deleterious. Hence, we propose $\lambda$-\textit{equitune} that averages the features using \textit{importance weights}, $\lambda$s. These weights are learned directly from the data using a small neural network, leading to excellent zero-shot and finetuned results that outperform equitune. Further, we prove that $\lambda$-equitune is equivariant and a universal approximator of equivariant functions. Additionally, we show that the method of \cite{kaba2022equivariance} used with appropriate loss functions, which we call \textit{equizero}, also gives excellent zero-shot and finetuned performance. Both equitune and equizero are special cases of $\lambda$-equitune. To show the simplicity and generality of our method, we validate on a wide range of diverse applications and models such as 1) image classification using CLIP, 2) deep Q-learning, 3) fairness in natural language generation (NLG), 4) compositional generalization in languages, and 5) image classification using pretrained CNNs such as Resnet and Alexnet. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** CageViT: Convolutional Activation Guided Efficient Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09924  
**Abstract:** Recently, Transformers have emerged as the go-to architecture for both vision and language modeling tasks, but their computational efficiency is limited by the length of the input sequence. To address this, several efficient variants of Transformers have been proposed to accelerate computation or reduce memory consumption while preserving performance. This paper presents an efficient vision Transformer, called CageViT, that is guided by convolutional activation to reduce computation. Our CageViT, unlike current Transformers, utilizes a new encoder to handle the rearranged tokens, bringing several technical contributions: 1) Convolutional activation is used to pre-process the token after patchifying the image to select and rearrange the major tokens and minor tokens, which substantially reduces the computation cost through an additional fusion layer. 2) Instead of using the class activation map of the convolutional model directly, we design a new weighted class activation to lower the model requirements. 3) To facilitate communication between major tokens and fusion tokens, Gated Linear SRA is proposed to further integrate fusion tokens into the attention mechanism. We perform a comprehensive validation of CageViT on the image classification challenge. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Link prediction for ex ante influence maximization on temporal networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09965  
**Abstract:** Influence maximization (IM) is the task of finding the most important nodes in order to maximize the spread of influence or information on a network. This task is typically studied on static or temporal networks where the complete topology of the graph is known. In practice, however, the seed nodes must be selected before observing the future evolution of the network. In this work, we consider this realistic ex ante setting where $p$ time steps of the network have been observed before selecting the seed nodes. Then the influence is calculated after the network continues to evolve for a total of $T>p$ time steps. We address this problem by using statistical, non-negative matrix factorization and graph neural networks link prediction algorithms to predict the future evolution of the network and then apply existing influence maximization algorithms on the predicted networks. Additionally, the output of the link prediction methods can be used to construct novel IM algorithms. We apply the proposed methods to many real-world networks to compare their performance. In many settings, choosing seed nodes based only historical edges provides results comparable to the results treating the future graph snapshots as known. The proposed heuristics based on the link prediction model are also some of the best-performing methods. These findings indicate that, for these data sets and this diffusion mechanism, the latent process which determines the most influential nodes may not have large temporal variation. Thus, knowing the future status of the network is not necessary to obtain good results for ex ante IM. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Variable Length Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09967  
**Abstract:** In this work, we introduce a novel deep learning architecture, Variable Length Embeddings (VLEs), an autoregressive model that can produce a latent representation composed of an arbitrary number of tokens. As a proof of concept, we demonstrate the capabilities of VLEs on tasks that involve reconstruction and image decomposition. We evaluate our experiments on a mix of the iNaturalist and ImageNet datasets and find that VLEs achieve comparable reconstruction results to a state of the art VAE, using less than a tenth of the parameters. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** AD-KD: Attribution-Driven Knowledge Distillation for Language Model  Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10010  
**Abstract:** Knowledge distillation has attracted a great deal of interest recently to compress pre-trained language models. However, existing knowledge distillation methods suffer from two limitations. First, the student model simply imitates the teacher's behavior while ignoring the underlying reasoning. Second, these methods usually focus on the transfer of sophisticated model-specific knowledge but overlook data-specific knowledge. In this paper, we present a novel attribution-driven knowledge distillation approach, which explores the token-level rationale behind the teacher model based on Integrated Gradients (IG) and transfers attribution knowledge to the student model. To enhance the knowledge transfer of model reasoning and generalization, we further explore multi-view attribution distillation on all potential decisions of the teacher. Comprehensive experiments are conducted with BERT on the GLUE benchmark. The experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of our approach to several state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** When Gradient Descent Meets Derivative-Free Optimization: A Match Made  in Black-Box Scenario  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10013  
**Abstract:** Large pre-trained language models (PLMs) have garnered significant attention for their versatility and potential for solving a wide spectrum of natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, the cost of running these PLMs may be prohibitive. Furthermore, PLMs may not be open-sourced due to commercial considerations and potential risks of misuse, such as GPT-3. The parameters and gradients of PLMs are unavailable in this scenario. To solve the issue, black-box tuning has been proposed, which utilizes derivative-free optimization (DFO), instead of gradient descent, for training task-specific continuous prompts. However, these gradient-free methods still exhibit a significant gap compared to gradient-based methods. In this paper, we introduce gradient descent into black-box tuning scenario through knowledge distillation. Furthermore, we propose a novel method GDFO, which integrates gradient descent and derivative-free optimization to optimize task-specific continuous prompts in a harmonized manner. Experimental results show that GDFO can achieve significant performance gains over previous state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Pyramid Diffusion Models For Low-light Image Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10028  
**Abstract:** Recovering noise-covered details from low-light images is challenging, and the results given by previous methods leave room for improvement. Recent diffusion models show realistic and detailed image generation through a sequence of denoising refinements and motivate us to introduce them to low-light image enhancement for recovering realistic details. However, we found two problems when doing this, i.e., 1) diffusion models keep constant resolution in one reverse process, which limits the speed; 2) diffusion models sometimes result in global degradation (e.g., RGB shift). To address the above problems, this paper proposes a Pyramid Diffusion model (PyDiff) for low-light image enhancement. PyDiff uses a novel pyramid diffusion method to perform sampling in a pyramid resolution style (i.e., progressively increasing resolution in one reverse process). Pyramid diffusion makes PyDiff much faster than vanilla diffusion models and introduces no performance degradation. Furthermore, PyDiff uses a global corrector to alleviate the global degradation that may occur in the reverse process, significantly improving the performance and making the training of diffusion models easier with little additional computational consumption. Extensive experiments on popular benchmarks show that PyDiff achieves superior performance and efficiency. Moreover, PyDiff can generalize well to unseen noise and illumination distributions. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Can Language Models Solve Graph Problems in Natural Language?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10037  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly adopted for a variety of tasks with implicit graphical structures, such as planning in robotics, multi-hop question answering or knowledge probing, structured commonsense reasoning, and more. While LLMs have advanced the state-of-the-art on these tasks with structure implications, whether LLMs could explicitly process textual descriptions of graphs and structures, map them to grounded conceptual spaces, and perform structured operations remains underexplored. To this end, we propose NLGraph (Natural Language Graph), a comprehensive benchmark of graph-based problem solving designed in natural language. NLGraph contains 29,370 problems, covering eight graph reasoning tasks with varying complexity from simple tasks such as connectivity and shortest path up to complex problems such as maximum flow and simulating graph neural networks. We evaluate LLMs (GPT-3/4) with various prompting approaches on the NLGraph benchmark and find that 1) language models do demonstrate preliminary graph reasoning abilities, 2) the benefit of advanced prompting and in-context learning diminishes on more complex graph problems, while 3) LLMs are also (un)surprisingly brittle in the face of spurious correlations in graph and problem settings. We then propose Build-a-Graph Prompting and Algorithmic Prompting, two instruction-based approaches to enhance LLMs in solving natural language graph problems. Build-a-Graph and Algorithmic prompting improve the performance of LLMs on NLGraph by 3.07% to 16.85% across multiple tasks and settings, while how to solve the most complicated graph reasoning tasks in our setup with language models remains an open research question. The NLGraph benchmark and evaluation code are available at https://github.com/Arthur-Heng/NLGraph. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Two-Stream Regression Network for Dental Implant Position Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10044  
**Abstract:** In implant prosthesis treatment, the design of surgical guide requires lots of manual labors and is prone to subjective variations. When deep learning based methods has started to be applied to address this problem, the space between teeth are various and some of them might present similar texture characteristic with the actual implant region. Both problems make a big challenge for the implant position prediction. In this paper, we develop a two-stream implant position regression framework (TSIPR), which consists of an implant region detector (IRD) and a multi-scale patch embedding regression network (MSPENet), to address this issue. For the training of IRD, we extend the original annotation to provide additional supervisory information, which contains much more rich characteristic and do not introduce extra labeling costs. A multi-scale patch embedding module is designed for the MSPENet to adaptively extract features from the images with various tooth spacing. The global-local feature interaction block is designed to build the encoder of MSPENet, which combines the transformer and convolution for enriched feature representation. During inference, the RoI mask extracted from the IRD is used to refine the prediction results of the MSPENet. Extensive experiments on a dental implant dataset through five-fold cross-validation demonstrated that the proposed TSIPR achieves superior performance than existing methods. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Selective Amnesia: A Continual Learning Approach to Forgetting in Deep  Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10120  
**Abstract:** The recent proliferation of large-scale text-to-image models has led to growing concerns that such models may be misused to generate harmful, misleading, and inappropriate content. Motivated by this issue, we derive a technique inspired by continual learning to selectively forget concepts in pretrained deep generative models. Our method, dubbed Selective Amnesia, enables controllable forgetting where a user can specify how a concept should be forgotten. Selective Amnesia can be applied to conditional variational likelihood models, which encompass a variety of popular deep generative frameworks, including variational autoencoders and large-scale text-to-image diffusion models. Experiments across different models demonstrate that our approach induces forgetting on a variety of concepts, from entire classes in standard datasets to celebrity and nudity prompts in text-to-image models. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/clear-nus/selective-amnesia. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Controllable Mind Visual Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10135  
**Abstract:** Brain signal visualization has emerged as an active research area, serving as a critical interface between the human visual system and computer vision models. Although diffusion models have shown promise in analyzing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, including reconstructing high-quality images consistent with original visual stimuli, their accuracy in extracting semantic and silhouette information from brain signals remains limited. In this regard, we propose a novel approach, referred to as Controllable Mind Visual Diffusion Model (CMVDM). CMVDM extracts semantic and silhouette information from fMRI data using attribute alignment and assistant networks. Additionally, a residual block is incorporated to capture information beyond semantic and silhouette features. We then leverage a control model to fully exploit the extracted information for image synthesis, resulting in generated images that closely resemble the visual stimuli in terms of semantics and silhouette. Through extensive experimentation, we demonstrate that CMVDM outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods both qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Improving Language Model Negotiation with Self-Play and In-Context  Learning from AI Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10142  
**Abstract:** We study whether multiple large language models (LLMs) can autonomously improve each other in a negotiation game by playing, reflecting, and criticizing. We are interested in this question because if LLMs were able to improve each other, it would imply the possibility of creating strong AI agents with minimal human intervention. We ask two LLMs to negotiate with each other, playing the roles of a buyer and a seller, respectively. They aim to reach a deal with the buyer targeting a lower price and the seller a higher one. A third language model, playing the critic, provides feedback to a player to improve the player's negotiation strategies. We let the two agents play multiple rounds, using previous negotiation history and AI feedback as in-context demonstrations to improve the model's negotiation strategy iteratively. We use different LLMs (GPT and Claude) for different roles and use the deal price as the evaluation metric. Our experiments reveal multiple intriguing findings: (1) Only a subset of the language models we consider can self-play and improve the deal price from AI feedback, weaker models either do not understand the game's rules or cannot incorporate AI feedback for further improvement. (2) Models' abilities to learn from the feedback differ when playing different roles. For example, it is harder for Claude-instant to improve as the buyer than as the seller. (3) When unrolling the game to multiple rounds, stronger agents can consistently improve their performance by meaningfully using previous experiences and iterative AI feedback, yet have a higher risk of breaking the deal. We hope our work provides insightful initial explorations of having models autonomously improve each other with game playing and AI feedback. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Provably Correct Physics-Informed Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10157  
**Abstract:** Recent work provides promising evidence that Physics-informed neural networks (PINN) can efficiently solve partial differential equations (PDE). However, previous works have failed to provide guarantees on the worst-case residual error of a PINN across the spatio-temporal domain - a measure akin to the tolerance of numerical solvers - focusing instead on point-wise comparisons between their solution and the ones obtained by a solver on a set of inputs. In real-world applications, one cannot consider tests on a finite set of points to be sufficient grounds for deployment, as the performance could be substantially worse on a different set. To alleviate this issue, we establish tolerance-based correctness conditions for PINNs over the entire input domain. To verify the extent to which they hold, we introduce $\partial$-CROWN: a general, efficient and scalable post-training framework to bound PINN residual errors. We demonstrate its effectiveness in obtaining tight certificates by applying it to two classically studied PDEs - Burgers' and Schr\"odinger's equations -, and two more challenging ones with real-world applications - the Allan-Cahn and Diffusion-Sorption equations. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Qualifying Chinese Medical Licensing Examination with Knowledge Enhanced  Generative Pre-training Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10163  
**Abstract:** Generative Pre-Training (GPT) models like ChatGPT have demonstrated exceptional performance in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. Although ChatGPT has been integrated into the overall workflow to boost efficiency in many domains, the lack of flexibility in the finetuning process hinders its applications in areas that demand extensive domain expertise and semantic knowledge, such as healthcare. In this paper, we evaluate ChatGPT on the China National Medical Licensing Examination (CNMLE) and propose a novel approach to improve ChatGPT from two perspectives: integrating medical domain knowledge and enabling few-shot learning. By using a simple but effective retrieval method, medical background knowledge is extracted as semantic instructions to guide the inference of ChatGPT. Similarly, relevant medical questions are identified and fed as demonstrations to ChatGPT. Experimental results show that directly applying ChatGPT fails to qualify the CNMLE at a score of 51 (i.e., only 51\% of questions are answered correctly). While our knowledge-enhanced model achieves a high score of 70 on CNMLE-2022 which not only passes the qualification but also surpasses the average score of humans (61). This research demonstrates the potential of knowledge-enhanced ChatGPT to serve as versatile medical assistants, capable of analyzing real-world medical problems in a more accessible, user-friendly, and adaptable manner. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Boosting Distress Support Dialogue Responses with Motivational  Interviewing Strategy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10195  
**Abstract:** AI-driven chatbots have become an emerging solution to address psychological distress. Due to the lack of psychotherapeutic data, researchers use dialogues scraped from online peer support forums to train them. But since the responses in such platforms are not given by professionals, they contain both conforming and non-conforming responses. In this work, we attempt to recognize these conforming and non-conforming response types present in online distress-support dialogues using labels adapted from a well-established behavioral coding scheme named Motivational Interviewing Treatment Integrity (MITI) code and show how some response types could be rephrased into a more MI adherent form that can, in turn, enable chatbot responses to be more compliant with the MI strategy. As a proof of concept, we build several rephrasers by fine-tuning Blender and GPT3 to rephrase MI non-adherent "Advise without permission" responses into "Advise with permission". We show how this can be achieved with the construction of pseudo-parallel corpora avoiding costs for human labor. Through automatic and human evaluation we show that in the presence of less training data, techniques such as prompting and data augmentation can be used to produce substantially good rephrasings that reflect the intended style and preserve the content of the original text. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** People Talking and AI Listening: How Stigmatizing Language in EHR Notes  Affect AI Performance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10201  
**Abstract:** Electronic health records (EHRs) serve as an essential data source for the envisioned artificial intelligence (AI)-driven transformation in healthcare. However, clinician biases reflected in EHR notes can lead to AI models inheriting and amplifying these biases, perpetuating health disparities. This study investigates the impact of stigmatizing language (SL) in EHR notes on mortality prediction using a Transformer-based deep learning model and explainable AI (XAI) techniques. Our findings demonstrate that SL written by clinicians adversely affects AI performance, particularly so for black patients, highlighting SL as a source of racial disparity in AI model development. To explore an operationally efficient way to mitigate SL's impact, we investigate patterns in the generation of SL through a clinicians' collaborative network, identifying central clinicians as having a stronger impact on racial disparity in the AI model. We find that removing SL written by central clinicians is a more efficient bias reduction strategy than eliminating all SL in the entire corpus of data. This study provides actionable insights for responsible AI development and contributes to understanding clinician behavior and EHR note writing in healthcare. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Assessing Hidden Risks of LLMs: An Empirical Study on Robustness,  Consistency, and Credibility  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10235  
**Abstract:** The recent popularity of large language models (LLMs) has brought a significant impact to boundless fields, particularly through their open-ended ecosystem such as the APIs, open-sourced models, and plugins. However, with their widespread deployment, there is a general lack of research that thoroughly discusses and analyzes the potential risks concealed. In that case, we intend to conduct a preliminary but pioneering study covering the robustness, consistency, and credibility of LLMs systems. With most of the related literature in the era of LLM uncharted, we propose an automated workflow that copes with an upscaled number of queries/responses. Overall, we conduct over a million queries to the mainstream LLMs including ChatGPT, LLaMA, and OPT. Core to our workflow consists of a data primitive, followed by an automated interpreter that evaluates these LLMs under different adversarial metrical systems. As a result, we draw several, and perhaps unfortunate, conclusions that are quite uncommon from this trendy community. Briefly, they are: (i)-the minor but inevitable error occurrence in the user-generated query input may, by chance, cause the LLM to respond unexpectedly; (ii)-LLMs possess poor consistency when processing semantically similar query input. In addition, as a side finding, we find that ChatGPT is still capable to yield the correct answer even when the input is polluted at an extreme level. While this phenomenon demonstrates the powerful memorization of the LLMs, it raises serious concerns about using such data for LLM-involved evaluation in academic development. To deal with it, we propose a novel index associated with a dataset that roughly decides the feasibility of using such data for LLM-involved evaluation. Extensive empirical studies are tagged to support the aforementioned claims. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** A quantitative study of NLP approaches to question difficulty estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10236  
**Abstract:** Recent years witnessed an increase in the amount of research on the task of Question Difficulty Estimation from Text QDET with Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques, with the goal of targeting the limitations of traditional approaches to question calibration. However, almost the entirety of previous research focused on single silos, without performing quantitative comparisons between different models or across datasets from different educational domains. In this work, we aim at filling this gap, by quantitatively analyzing several approaches proposed in previous research, and comparing their performance on three publicly available real world datasets containing questions of different types from different educational domains. Specifically, we consider reading comprehension Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs), science MCQs, and math questions. We find that Transformer based models are the best performing across different educational domains, with DistilBERT performing almost as well as BERT, and that they outperform other approaches even on smaller datasets. As for the other models, the hybrid ones often outperform the ones based on a single type of features, the ones based on linguistic features perform well on reading comprehension questions, while frequency based features (TF-IDF) and word embeddings (word2vec) perform better in domain knowledge assessment. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Can Deep Network Balance Copy-Move Forgery Detection and  Distinguishment?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10247  
**Abstract:** Copy-move forgery detection is a crucial research area within digital image forensics, as it focuses on identifying instances where objects in an image are duplicated and placed in different locations. The detection of such forgeries is particularly important in contexts where they can be exploited for malicious purposes. Recent years have witnessed an increased interest in distinguishing between the original and duplicated objects in copy-move forgeries, accompanied by the development of larger-scale datasets to facilitate this task. However, existing approaches to copy-move forgery detection and source/target differentiation often involve two separate steps or the design of individual end-to-end networks for each task. In this paper, we propose an innovative method that employs the transformer architecture in an end-to-end deep neural network. Our method aims to detect instances of copy-move forgery while simultaneously localizing the source and target regions. By utilizing this approach, we address the challenges posed by multi-object copy-move scenarios and report if there is a balance between the detection and differentiation tasks. To evaluate the performance of our proposed network, we conducted experiments on two publicly available copy-move datasets. The results and analysis aims to show the potential significance of our focus in balancing detection and distinguishment result and transferring the trained model in different datasets in the field. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** MemoryBank: Enhancing Large Language Models with Long-Term Memory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10250  
**Abstract:** Revolutionary advancements in Large Language Models have drastically reshaped our interactions with artificial intelligence systems. Despite this, a notable hindrance remains-the deficiency of a long-term memory mechanism within these models. This shortfall becomes increasingly evident in situations demanding sustained interaction, such as personal companion systems and psychological counseling. Therefore, we propose MemoryBank, a novel memory mechanism tailored for LLMs. MemoryBank enables the models to summon relevant memories, continually evolve through continuous memory updates, comprehend, and adapt to a user personality by synthesizing information from past interactions. To mimic anthropomorphic behaviors and selectively preserve memory, MemoryBank incorporates a memory updating mechanism, inspired by the Ebbinghaus Forgetting Curve theory, which permits the AI to forget and reinforce memory based on time elapsed and the relative significance of the memory, thereby offering a human-like memory mechanism. MemoryBank is versatile in accommodating both closed-source models like ChatGPT and open-source models like ChatGLM. We exemplify application of MemoryBank through the creation of an LLM-based chatbot named SiliconFriend in a long-term AI Companion scenario. Further tuned with psychological dialogs, SiliconFriend displays heightened empathy in its interactions. Experiment involves both qualitative analysis with real-world user dialogs and quantitative analysis with simulated dialogs. In the latter, ChatGPT acts as users with diverse characteristics and generates long-term dialog contexts covering a wide array of topics. The results of our analysis reveal that SiliconFriend, equipped with MemoryBank, exhibits a strong capability for long-term companionship as it can provide emphatic response, recall relevant memories and understand user personality. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** M3KE: A Massive Multi-Level Multi-Subject Knowledge Evaluation Benchmark  for Chinese Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10263  
**Abstract:** Large language models have recently made tremendous progress in a variety of aspects, e.g., cross-task generalization, instruction following. Comprehensively evaluating the capability of large language models in multiple tasks is of great importance. In this paper, we propose M3KE, a Massive Multi-Level Multi-Subject Knowledge Evaluation benchmark, which is developed to measure knowledge acquired by Chinese large language models by testing their multitask accuracy in zero- and few-shot settings. We have collected 20,477 questions from 71 tasks. Our selection covers all major levels of Chinese education system, ranging from the primary school to college, as well as a wide variety of subjects, including humanities, history, politics, law, education, psychology, science, technology, art and religion. All questions are multiple-choice questions with four options, hence guaranteeing a standardized and unified assessment process. We've assessed a number of state-of-the-art open-source Chinese large language models on the proposed benchmark. The size of these models varies from 335M to 130B parameters. Experiment results demonstrate that they perform significantly worse than GPT-3.5 that reaches an accuracy of ~ 48% on M3KE. The dataset is available at https://github.com/tjunlp-lab/M3KE. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Chain-of-Symbol Prompting Elicits Planning in Large Langauge Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10276  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we take the initiative to investigate the performance of LLMs on complex planning tasks that require LLMs to understand a virtual spatial environment simulated via natural language and act correspondingly in text. We propose a benchmark named Natural Language Planning (NLP) composed of a set of novel tasks: Brick World, NLVR-based Manipulations, and Natural Language Navigation. We found that current popular LLMs such as ChatGPT still lack abilities in complex planning. This arises a question -- do the LLMs have a good understanding of the environments described in natural language, or maybe other alternatives such as symbolic representations are neater and hence better to be understood by LLMs? To this end, we propose a novel method called CoS (Chain-of-Symbol Prompting) that represents the complex environments with condensed symbolic spatial representations during the chained intermediate thinking steps. CoS is easy to use and does not need additional training on LLMs. Extensive experiments indicate that CoS clearly surpasses the performance of the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) Prompting in all three planning tasks with even fewer tokens used in the inputs compared with CoT on ChatGPT and InstructGPT. The performance gain is strong, by up to 60.8% accuracy (from 31.8% to 92.6%) on Brick World for ChatGPT. CoS also reduces the number of tokens in the prompt obviously, by up to 65.8% of the tokens (from 407 to 139) for the intermediate steps from demonstrations on Brick World. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Rethinking Data Augmentation for Tabular Data in Deep Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10308  
**Abstract:** Tabular data is the most widely used data format in machine learning (ML). While tree-based methods outperform DL-based methods in supervised learning, recent literature reports that self-supervised learning with Transformer-based models outperforms tree-based methods. In the existing literature on self-supervised learning for tabular data, contrastive learning is the predominant method. In contrastive learning, data augmentation is important to generate different views. However, data augmentation for tabular data has been difficult due to the unique structure and high complexity of tabular data. In addition, three main components are proposed together in existing methods: model structure, self-supervised learning methods, and data augmentation. Therefore, previous works have compared the performance without comprehensively considering these components, and it is not clear how each component affects the actual performance. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** CostFormer:Cost Transformer for Cost Aggregation in Multi-view Stereo  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10320  
**Abstract:** The core of Multi-view Stereo(MVS) is the matching process among reference and source pixels. Cost aggregation plays a significant role in this process, while previous methods focus on handling it via CNNs. This may inherit the natural limitation of CNNs that fail to discriminate repetitive or incorrect matches due to limited local receptive fields. To handle the issue, we aim to involve Transformer into cost aggregation. However, another problem may occur due to the quadratically growing computational complexity caused by Transformer, resulting in memory overflow and inference latency. In this paper, we overcome these limits with an efficient Transformer-based cost aggregation network, namely CostFormer. The Residual Depth-Aware Cost Transformer(RDACT) is proposed to aggregate long-range features on cost volume via self-attention mechanisms along the depth and spatial dimensions. Furthermore, Residual Regression Transformer(RRT) is proposed to enhance spatial attention. The proposed method is a universal plug-in to improve learning-based MVS methods. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** G-Adapter: Towards Structure-Aware Parameter-Efficient Transfer Learning  for Graph Transformer Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10329  
**Abstract:** It has become a popular paradigm to transfer the knowledge of large-scale pre-trained models to various downstream tasks via fine-tuning the entire model parameters. However, with the growth of model scale and the rising number of downstream tasks, this paradigm inevitably meets the challenges in terms of computation consumption and memory footprint issues. Recently, Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) (e.g., Adapter, LoRA, BitFit) shows a promising paradigm to alleviate these concerns by updating only a portion of parameters. Despite these PEFTs having demonstrated satisfactory performance in natural language processing, it remains under-explored for the question of whether these techniques could be transferred to graph-based tasks with Graph Transformer Networks (GTNs). Therefore, in this paper, we fill this gap by providing extensive benchmarks with traditional PEFTs on a range of graph-based downstream tasks. Our empirical study shows that it is sub-optimal to directly transfer existing PEFTs to graph-based tasks due to the issue of feature distribution shift. To address this issue, we propose a novel structure-aware PEFT approach, named G-Adapter, which leverages graph convolution operation to introduce graph structure (e.g., graph adjacent matrix) as an inductive bias to guide the updating process. Besides, we propose Bregman proximal point optimization to further alleviate feature distribution shift by preventing the model from aggressive update. Extensive experiments demonstrate that G-Adapter obtains the state-of-the-art performance compared to the counterparts on nine graph benchmark datasets based on two pre-trained GTNs, and delivers tremendous memory footprint efficiency compared to the conventional paradigm. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Interactive Learning of Hierarchical Tasks from Dialog with GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10349  
**Abstract:** We present a system for interpretable, symbolic, interactive task learning from dialog using a GPT model as a conversational front-end. The learned tasks are represented as hierarchical decompositions of predicate-argument structures with scoped variable arguments. By using a GPT model to convert interactive dialog into a semantic representation, and then recursively asking for definitions of unknown steps, we show that hierarchical task knowledge can be acquired and re-used in a natural and unrestrained conversational environment. We compare our system to a similar architecture using a more conventional parser and show that our system tolerates a much wider variety of linguistic variance. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Large-Scale Text Analysis Using Generative Language Models: A Case Study  in Discovering Public Value Expressions in AI Patents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10383  
**Abstract:** Labeling data is essential for training text classifiers but is often difficult to accomplish accurately, especially for complex and abstract concepts. Seeking an improved method, this paper employs a novel approach using a generative language model (GPT-4) to produce labels and rationales for large-scale text analysis. We apply this approach to the task of discovering public value expressions in US AI patents. We collect a database comprising 154,934 patent documents using an advanced Boolean query submitted to InnovationQ+. The results are merged with full patent text from the USPTO, resulting in 5.4 million sentences. We design a framework for identifying and labeling public value expressions in these AI patent sentences. A prompt for GPT-4 is developed which includes definitions, guidelines, examples, and rationales for text classification. We evaluate the quality of the labels and rationales produced by GPT-4 using BLEU scores and topic modeling and find that they are accurate, diverse, and faithful. These rationales also serve as a chain-of-thought for the model, a transparent mechanism for human verification, and support for human annotators to overcome cognitive limitations. We conclude that GPT-4 achieved a high-level of recognition of public value theory from our framework, which it also uses to discover unseen public value expressions. We use the labels produced by GPT-4 to train BERT-based classifiers and predict sentences on the entire database, achieving high F1 scores for the 3-class (0.85) and 2-class classification (0.91) tasks. We discuss the implications of our approach for conducting large-scale text analyses with complex and abstract concepts and suggest that, with careful framework design and interactive human oversight, generative language models can offer significant advantages in quality and in reduced time and costs for producing labels and rationales. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Logit-Based Ensemble Distribution Distillation for Robust Autoregressive  Sequence Uncertainties  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10384  
**Abstract:** Efficiently and reliably estimating uncertainty is an important objective in deep learning. It is especially pertinent to autoregressive sequence tasks, where training and inference costs are typically very high. However, existing research has predominantly focused on tasks with static data such as image classification. In this work, we investigate Ensemble Distribution Distillation (EDD) applied to large-scale natural language sequence-to-sequence data. EDD aims to compress the superior uncertainty performance of an expensive (teacher) ensemble into a cheaper (student) single model. Importantly, the ability to separate knowledge (epistemic) and data (aleatoric) uncertainty is retained. Existing probability-space approaches to EDD, however, are difficult to scale to large vocabularies. We show, for modern transformer architectures on large-scale translation tasks, that modelling the ensemble logits, instead of softmax probabilities, leads to significantly better students. Moreover, the students surprisingly even outperform Deep Ensembles by up to ~10% AUROC on out-of-distribution detection, whilst matching them at in-distribution translation. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Raising the Bar for Certified Adversarial Robustness with Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10388  
**Abstract:** Certified defenses against adversarial attacks offer formal guarantees on the robustness of a model, making them more reliable than empirical methods such as adversarial training, whose effectiveness is often later reduced by unseen attacks. Still, the limited certified robustness that is currently achievable has been a bottleneck for their practical adoption. Gowal et al. and Wang et al. have shown that generating additional training data using state-of-the-art diffusion models can considerably improve the robustness of adversarial training. In this work, we demonstrate that a similar approach can substantially improve deterministic certified defenses. In addition, we provide a list of recommendations to scale the robustness of certified training approaches. One of our main insights is that the generalization gap, i.e., the difference between the training and test accuracy of the original model, is a good predictor of the magnitude of the robustness improvement when using additional generated data. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art deterministic robustness certificates on CIFAR-10 for the $\ell_2$ ($\epsilon = 36/255$) and $\ell_\infty$ ($\epsilon = 8/255$) threat models, outperforming the previous best results by $+3.95\%$ and $+1.39\%$, respectively. Furthermore, we report similar improvements for CIFAR-100. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** PaLM 2 Technical Report  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10403  
**Abstract:** We introduce PaLM 2, a new state-of-the-art language model that has better multilingual and reasoning capabilities and is more compute-efficient than its predecessor PaLM. PaLM 2 is a Transformer-based model trained using a mixture of objectives. Through extensive evaluations on English and multilingual language, and reasoning tasks, we demonstrate that PaLM 2 has significantly improved quality on downstream tasks across different model sizes, while simultaneously exhibiting faster and more efficient inference compared to PaLM. This improved efficiency enables broader deployment while also allowing the model to respond faster, for a more natural pace of interaction. PaLM 2 demonstrates robust reasoning capabilities exemplified by large improvements over PaLM on BIG-Bench and other reasoning tasks. PaLM 2 exhibits stable performance on a suite of responsible AI evaluations, and enables inference-time control over toxicity without additional overhead or impact on other capabilities. Overall, PaLM 2 achieves state-of-the-art performance across a diverse set of tasks and capabilities. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** BAD: BiAs Detection for Large Language Models in the context of  candidate screening  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10407  
**Abstract:** Application Tracking Systems (ATS) have allowed talent managers, recruiters, and college admissions committees to process large volumes of potential candidate applications efficiently. Traditionally, this screening process was conducted manually, creating major bottlenecks due to the quantity of applications and introducing many instances of human bias. The advent of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and the potential of adopting methods to current automated application screening raises additional bias and fairness issues that must be addressed. In this project, we wish to identify and quantify the instances of social bias in ChatGPT and other OpenAI LLMs in the context of candidate screening in order to demonstrate how the use of these models could perpetuate existing biases and inequalities in the hiring process. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** CLIP-GCD: Simple Language Guided Generalized Category Discovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10420  
**Abstract:** Generalized Category Discovery (GCD) requires a model to both classify known categories and cluster unknown categories in unlabeled data. Prior methods leveraged self-supervised pre-training combined with supervised fine-tuning on the labeled data, followed by simple clustering methods. In this paper, we posit that such methods are still prone to poor performance on out-of-distribution categories, and do not leverage a key ingredient: Semantic relationships between object categories. We therefore propose to leverage multi-modal (vision and language) models, in two complementary ways. First, we establish a strong baseline by replacing uni-modal features with CLIP, inspired by its zero-shot performance. Second, we propose a novel retrieval-based mechanism that leverages CLIP's aligned vision-language representations by mining text descriptions from a text corpus for the labeled and unlabeled set. We specifically use the alignment between CLIP's visual encoding of the image and textual encoding of the corpus to retrieve top-k relevant pieces of text and incorporate their embeddings to perform joint image+text semi-supervised clustering. We perform rigorous experimentation and ablations (including on where to retrieve from, how much to retrieve, and how to combine information), and validate our results on several datasets including out-of-distribution domains, demonstrating state-of-art results. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Accelerating Transformer Inference for Translation via Parallel Decoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10427  
**Abstract:** Autoregressive decoding limits the efficiency of transformers for Machine Translation (MT). The community proposed specific network architectures and learning-based methods to solve this issue, which are expensive and require changes to the MT model, trading inference speed at the cost of the translation quality. In this paper, we propose to address the problem from the point of view of decoding algorithms, as a less explored but rather compelling direction. We propose to reframe the standard greedy autoregressive decoding of MT with a parallel formulation leveraging Jacobi and Gauss-Seidel fixed-point iteration methods for fast inference. This formulation allows to speed up existing models without training or modifications while retaining translation quality. We present three parallel decoding algorithms and test them on different languages and models showing how the parallelization introduces a speedup up to 38% w.r.t. the standard autoregressive decoding and nearly 2x when scaling the method on parallel resources. Finally, we introduce a decoding dependency graph visualizer (DDGviz) that let us see how the model has learned the conditional dependence between tokens and inspect the decoding procedure. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** FastComposer: Tuning-Free Multi-Subject Image Generation with Localized  Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10431  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models excel at text-to-image generation, especially in subject-driven generation for personalized images. However, existing methods are inefficient due to the subject-specific fine-tuning, which is computationally intensive and hampers efficient deployment. Moreover, existing methods struggle with multi-subject generation as they often blend features among subjects. We present FastComposer which enables efficient, personalized, multi-subject text-to-image generation without fine-tuning. FastComposer uses subject embeddings extracted by an image encoder to augment the generic text conditioning in diffusion models, enabling personalized image generation based on subject images and textual instructions with only forward passes. To address the identity blending problem in the multi-subject generation, FastComposer proposes cross-attention localization supervision during training, enforcing the attention of reference subjects localized to the correct regions in the target images. Naively conditioning on subject embeddings results in subject overfitting. FastComposer proposes delayed subject conditioning in the denoising step to maintain both identity and editability in subject-driven image generation. FastComposer generates images of multiple unseen individuals with different styles, actions, and contexts. It achieves 300$\times$-2500$\times$ speedup compared to fine-tuning-based methods and requires zero extra storage for new subjects. FastComposer paves the way for efficient, personalized, and high-quality multi-subject image creation. Code, model, and dataset are available at https://github.com/mit-han-lab/fastcomposer. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Assessment of few-hits machine learning classification algorithms for  low energy physics in liquid argon detectors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.09744  
**Abstract:** The physics potential of massive liquid argon TPCs in the low-energy regime is still to be fully reaped because few-hits events encode information that can hardly be exploited by conventional classification algorithms. Machine learning (ML) techniques give their best in these types of classification problems. In this paper, we evaluate their performance against conventional (deterministic) algorithms. We demonstrate that both Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Transformer-Encoder methods outperform deterministic algorithms in one of the most challenging classification problems of low-energy physics (single- versus double-beta events). We discuss the advantages and pitfalls of Transformer-Encoder methods versus CNN and employ these methods to optimize the detector parameters, with an emphasis on the DUNE Phase II detectors ("Module of Opportunity"). 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** A phase field model for droplets suspended in viscous liquids under the  influence of electric fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10296  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a Poisson-Nernst-Planck-Navier-Stokes-Cahn-Hillard (PNP-NS-CH)model for an electrically charged droplet suspended in a viscous fluid subjected to an external electric field. Our model incorporates spatial variations of electric permittivity and diffusion constants, as well as interfacial capacitance. Based on a time scale analysis, we derive two approximations of the original model, namely a dynamic model for the net charge and a leaky-dielectric model. For the leaky-dielectric model, we conduct a detailed asymptotic analysis to demonstrate the convergence of the diffusive-interface leaky-dielectric model to the sharp interface model as the interface thickness approaches zero. Numerical computations are performed to validate the asymptotic analysis and demonstrate the model's effectiveness in handling topology changes, such as electrocoalescence. Our numerical results of these two approximation models reveal that the polarization force, which is induced by the spatial variation of electric permittivity in the direction perpendicular to the external electric field, consistently dominates the Lorentz force, which arises from the net charge. The equilibrium shape of droplets is determined by the interplay between these two forces along the direction of the electric field. Furthermore, in the presence of the interfacial capacitance, a local variation of effective permittivity leads to an accumulation of counter-ions near the interface, resulting in a reduction in droplet deformation. Our numerical solutions also confirm that the leaky dielectric model serves as a reasonable approximation of the original PNP-NS-CH model when the electric relaxation time is sufficiently short. The Lorentz force and droplet deformation both decrease when the diffusion of net charge is significant. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Subject-based Non-contrastive Self-Supervised Learning for ECG Signal  Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10347  
**Abstract:** Extracting information from the electrocardiography (ECG) signal is an essential step in the design of digital health technologies in cardiology. In recent years, several machine learning (ML) algorithms for automatic extraction of information in ECG have been proposed. Supervised learning methods have successfully been used to identify specific aspects in the signal, like detection of rhythm disorders (arrhythmias). Self-supervised learning (SSL) methods, on the other hand, can be used to extract all the features contained in the data. The model is optimized without any specific goal and learns from the data itself. By adapting state-of-the-art computer vision methodologies to the signal processing domain, a few SSL approaches have been reported recently for ECG processing. However, such SSL methods require either data augmentation or negative pairs, which limits the method to only look for similarities between two ECG inputs, either two versions of the same signal or two signals from the same subject. This leads to models that are very effective at extracting characteristics that are stable in a subject, such as gender or age. But they are not successful at capturing changes within the ECG recording that can explain dynamic aspects, like different arrhythmias or different sleep stages. In this work, we introduce the first SSL method that uses neither data augmentation nor negative pairs for understanding ECG signals, and still, achieves comparable quality representations. As a result, it is possible to design a SSL method that not only captures similarities between two inputs, but also captures dissimilarities for a complete understanding of the data. In addition, a model based on transformer blocks is presented, which produces better results than a model based on convolutional layers (XResNet50) with almost the same number of parameters. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** End-To-End Latent Variational Diffusion Models for Inverse Problems in  High Energy Physics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10399  
**Abstract:** High-energy collisions at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) provide valuable insights into open questions in particle physics. However, detector effects must be corrected before measurements can be compared to certain theoretical predictions or measurements from other detectors. Methods to solve this \textit{inverse problem} of mapping detector observations to theoretical quantities of the underlying collision are essential parts of many physics analyses at the LHC. We investigate and compare various generative deep learning methods to approximate this inverse mapping. We introduce a novel unified architecture, termed latent variation diffusion models, which combines the latent learning of cutting-edge generative art approaches with an end-to-end variational framework. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach for reconstructing global distributions of theoretical kinematic quantities, as well as for ensuring the adherence of the learned posterior distributions to known physics constraints. Our unified approach achieves a distribution-free distance to the truth of over 20 times less than non-latent state-of-the-art baseline and 3 times less than traditional latent diffusion models. 

