**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Model-Contrastive Federated Domain Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10432  
**Abstract:** Federated domain adaptation (FDA) aims to collaboratively transfer knowledge from source clients (domains) to the related but different target client, without communicating the local data of any client. Moreover, the source clients have different data distributions, leading to extremely challenging in knowledge transfer. Despite the recent progress in FDA, we empirically find that existing methods can not leverage models of heterogeneous domains and thus they fail to achieve excellent performance. In this paper, we propose a model-based method named FDAC, aiming to address {\bf F}ederated {\bf D}omain {\bf A}daptation based on {\bf C}ontrastive learning and Vision Transformer (ViT). In particular, contrastive learning can leverage the unlabeled data to train excellent models and the ViT architecture performs better than convolutional neural networks (CNNs) in extracting adaptable features. To the best of our knowledge, FDAC is the first attempt to learn transferable representations by manipulating the latent architecture of ViT under the federated setting. Furthermore, FDAC can increase the target data diversity by compensating from each source model with insufficient knowledge of samples and features, based on domain augmentation and semantic matching. Extensive experiments on several real datasets demonstrate that FDAC outperforms all the comparative methods in most conditions. Moreover, FDCA can also improve communication efficiency which is another key factor in the federated setting. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Learning the Visualness of Text Using Large Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10434  
**Abstract:** Visual text evokes an image in a person's mind, while non-visual text fails to do so. A method to automatically detect visualness in text will unlock the ability to augment text with relevant images, as neural text-to-image generation and retrieval models operate on the implicit assumption that the input text is visual in nature. We curate a dataset of 3,620 English sentences and their visualness scores provided by multiple human annotators. Additionally, we use documents that contain text and visual assets to create a distantly supervised corpus of document text and associated images. We also propose a fine-tuning strategy that adapts large vision-language models like CLIP that assume a one-to-one correspondence between text and image to the task of scoring text visualness from text input alone. Our strategy involves modifying the model's contrastive learning objective to map text identified as non-visual to a common NULL image while matching visual text to their corresponding images in the document. We evaluate the proposed approach on its ability to (i) classify visual and non-visual text accurately, and (ii) attend over words that are identified as visual in psycholinguistic studies. Empirical evaluation indicates that our approach performs better than several heuristics and baseline models for the proposed task. Furthermore, to highlight the importance of modeling the visualness of text, we conduct qualitative analyses of text-to-image generation systems like DALL-E. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Generative Pre-trained Transformer: A Comprehensive Review on Enabling  Technologies, Potential Applications, Emerging Challenges, and Future  Directions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10435  
**Abstract:** The Generative Pre-trained Transformer models represent a notable breakthrough in the domain of natural language processing, which is propelling us toward the development of machines that can understand and communicate using language in a manner that closely resembles that of humans. Generative Pre-trained Transformer models are based on the transformer architecture, a deep neural network designed for natural language processing tasks. Due to their impressive performance on natural language processing tasks and ability to effectively converse, Generative Pre-trained Transformer models have gained significant popularity among researchers and industrial communities, making them one of the most widely used and effective models in natural language processing and related fields, which motivated to conduct this review. This review provides a detailed overview of the Generative Pre-trained Transformer, including its architecture, working process, training procedures, enabling technologies, and its impact on various applications. In this review, we also explored the potential challenges and limitations of a Generative Pre-trained Transformer. Furthermore, we discuss potential solutions and future directions. Overall, this paper aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of Generative Pre-trained Transformers, enabling technologies, their impact on various applications, emerging challenges, and potential solutions. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** CBAGAN-RRT: Convolutional Block Attention Generative Adversarial Network  for Sampling-Based Path Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10442  
**Abstract:** Sampling-based path planning algorithms play an important role in autonomous robotics. However, a common problem among the RRT-based algorithms is that the initial path generated is not optimal and the convergence is too slow to be used in real-world applications. In this paper, we propose a novel image-based learning algorithm (CBAGAN-RRT) using a Convolutional Block Attention Generative Adversarial Network with a combination of spatial and channel attention and a novel loss function to design the heuristics, find a better optimal path, and improve the convergence of the algorithm both concerning time and speed. The probability distribution of the paths generated from our GAN model is used to guide the sampling process for the RRT algorithm. We train and test our network on the dataset generated by \cite{zhang2021generative} and demonstrate that our algorithm outperforms the previous state-of-the-art algorithms using both the image quality generation metrics like IOU Score, Dice Score, FID score, and path planning metrics like time cost and the number of nodes. We conduct detailed experiments and ablation studies to illustrate the feasibility of our study and show that our model performs well not only on the training dataset but also on the unseen test dataset. The advantage of our approach is that we can avoid the complicated preprocessing in the state space, our model can be generalized to complicated environments like those containing turns and narrow passages without loss of accuracy, and our model can be easily integrated with other sampling-based path planning algorithms. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Cooperation Is All You Need  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10449  
**Abstract:** Going beyond 'dendritic democracy', we introduce a 'democracy of local processors', termed Cooperator. Here we compare their capabilities when used in permutation-invariant neural networks for reinforcement learning (RL), with machine learning algorithms based on Transformers, such as ChatGPT. Transformers are based on the long-standing conception of integrate-and-fire 'point' neurons, whereas Cooperator is inspired by recent neurobiological breakthroughs suggesting that the cellular foundations of mental life depend on context-sensitive pyramidal neurons in the neocortex which have two functionally distinct points. We show that when used for RL, an algorithm based on Cooperator learns far quicker than that based on Transformer, even while having the same number of parameters. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Preserve Your Own Correlation: A Noise Prior for Video Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10474  
**Abstract:** Despite tremendous progress in generating high-quality images using diffusion models, synthesizing a sequence of animated frames that are both photorealistic and temporally coherent is still in its infancy. While off-the-shelf billion-scale datasets for image generation are available, collecting similar video data of the same scale is still challenging. Also, training a video diffusion model is computationally much more expensive than its image counterpart. In this work, we explore finetuning a pretrained image diffusion model with video data as a practical solution for the video synthesis task. We find that naively extending the image noise prior to video noise prior in video diffusion leads to sub-optimal performance. Our carefully designed video noise prior leads to substantially better performance. Extensive experimental validation shows that our model, Preserve Your Own Correlation (PYoCo), attains SOTA zero-shot text-to-video results on the UCF-101 and MSR-VTT benchmarks. It also achieves SOTA video generation quality on the small-scale UCF-101 benchmark with a $10\times$ smaller model using significantly less computation than the prior art. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** OR-NeRF: Object Removing from 3D Scenes Guided by Multiview Segmentation  with Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10503  
**Abstract:** The emergence of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) for novel view synthesis has led to increased interest in 3D scene editing. One important task in editing is removing objects from a scene while ensuring visual reasonability and multiview consistency. However, current methods face challenges such as time-consuming object labelling, limited capability to remove specific targets, and compromised rendering quality after removal. This paper proposes a novel object-removing pipeline, named OR-NeRF, that can remove objects from 3D scenes with either point or text prompts on a single view, achieving better performance in less time than previous works. Our method uses a points projection strategy to rapidly spread user annotations to all views, significantly reducing the processing burden. This algorithm allows us to leverage the recent 2D segmentation model Segment-Anything (SAM) to predict masks with improved precision and efficiency. Additionally, we obtain colour and depth priors through 2D inpainting methods. Finally, our algorithm employs depth supervision and perceptual loss for scene reconstruction to maintain consistency in geometry and appearance after object removal. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves better editing quality with less time than previous works, considering both quality and quantity. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** ChatGPT Perpetuates Gender Bias in Machine Translation and Ignores  Non-Gendered Pronouns: Findings across Bengali and Five other Low-Resource  Languages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10510  
**Abstract:** In this multicultural age, language translation is one of the most performed tasks, and it is becoming increasingly AI-moderated and automated. As a novel AI system, ChatGPT claims to be proficient in such translation tasks and in this paper, we put that claim to the test. Specifically, we examine ChatGPT's accuracy in translating between English and languages that exclusively use gender-neutral pronouns. We center this study around Bengali, the 7$^{th}$ most spoken language globally, but also generalize our findings across five other languages: Farsi, Malay, Tagalog, Thai, and Turkish. We find that ChatGPT perpetuates gender defaults and stereotypes assigned to certain occupations (e.g. man = doctor, woman = nurse) or actions (e.g. woman = cook, man = go to work), as it converts gender-neutral pronouns in languages to `he' or `she'. We also observe ChatGPT completely failing to translate the English gender-neutral pronoun `they' into equivalent gender-neutral pronouns in other languages, as it produces translations that are incoherent and incorrect. While it does respect and provide appropriately gender-marked versions of Bengali words when prompted with gender information in English, ChatGPT appears to confer a higher respect to men than to women in the same occupation. We conclude that ChatGPT exhibits the same gender biases which have been demonstrated for tools like Google Translate or MS Translator, as we provide recommendations for a human centered approach for future designers of AIs that perform language translation to better accommodate such low-resource languages. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Learning Pose Image Manifolds Using Geometry-Preserving GANs and  Elasticae  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10513  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the challenge of learning image manifolds, specifically pose manifolds, of 3D objects using limited training data. It proposes a DNN approach to manifold learning and for predicting images of objects for novel, continuous 3D rotations. The approach uses two distinct concepts: (1) Geometric Style-GAN (Geom-SGAN), which maps images to low-dimensional latent representations and maintains the (first-order) manifold geometry. That is, it seeks to preserve the pairwise distances between base points and their tangent spaces, and (2) uses Euler's elastica to smoothly interpolate between directed points (points + tangent directions) in the low-dimensional latent space. When mapped back to the larger image space, the resulting interpolations resemble videos of rotating objects. Extensive experiments establish the superiority of this framework in learning paths on rotation manifolds, both visually and quantitatively, relative to state-of-the-art GANs and VAEs. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Personalized action suggestions in low-code automation platforms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10530  
**Abstract:** Automation platforms aim to automate repetitive tasks using workflows, which start with a trigger and then perform a series of actions. However, with many possible actions, the user has to search for the desired action at each step, which hinders the speed of flow development. We propose a personalized transformer model that recommends the next item at each step. This personalization is learned end-to-end from user statistics that are available at inference time. We evaluated our model on workflows from Power Automate users and show that personalization improves top-1 accuracy by 22%. For new users, our model performs similar to a model trained without personalization. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Short-Term Electricity Load Forecasting Using the Temporal Fusion  Transformer: Effect of Grid Hierarchies and Data Sources  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10559  
**Abstract:** Recent developments related to the energy transition pose particular challenges for distribution grids. Hence, precise load forecasts become more and more important for effective grid management. Novel modeling approaches such as the Transformer architecture, in particular the Temporal Fusion Transformer (TFT), have emerged as promising methods for time series forecasting. To date, just a handful of studies apply TFTs to electricity load forecasting problems, mostly considering only single datasets and a few covariates. Therefore, we examine the potential of the TFT architecture for hourly short-term load forecasting across different time horizons (day-ahead and week-ahead) and network levels (grid and substation level). We find that the TFT architecture does not offer higher predictive performance than a state-of-the-art LSTM model for day-ahead forecasting on the entire grid. However, the results display significant improvements for the TFT when applied at the substation level with a subsequent aggregation to the upper grid-level, resulting in a prediction error of 2.43% (MAPE) for the best-performing scenario. In addition, the TFT appears to offer remarkable improvements over the LSTM approach for week-ahead forecasting (yielding a predictive error of 2.52% (MAPE) at the lowest). We outline avenues for future research using the TFT approach for load forecasting, including the exploration of various grid levels (e.g., grid, substation, and household level). 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** From chocolate bunny to chocolate crocodile: Do Language Models  Understand Noun Compounds?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10568  
**Abstract:** Noun compound interpretation is the task of expressing a noun compound (e.g. chocolate bunny) in a free-text paraphrase that makes the relationship between the constituent nouns explicit (e.g. bunny-shaped chocolate). We propose modifications to the data and evaluation setup of the standard task (Hendrickx et al., 2013), and show that GPT-3 solves it almost perfectly. We then investigate the task of noun compound conceptualization, i.e. paraphrasing a novel or rare noun compound. E.g., chocolate crocodile is a crocodile-shaped chocolate. This task requires creativity, commonsense, and the ability to generalize knowledge about similar concepts. While GPT-3's performance is not perfect, it is better than that of humans -- likely thanks to its access to vast amounts of knowledge, and because conceptual processing is effortful for people (Connell and Lynott, 2012). Finally, we estimate the extent to which GPT-3 is reasoning about the world vs. parroting its training data. We find that the outputs from GPT-3 often have significant overlap with a large web corpus, but that the parroting strategy is less beneficial for novel noun compounds. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** MultiPlaneNeRF: Neural Radiance Field with Non-Trainable Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10579  
**Abstract:** NeRF is a popular model that efficiently represents 3D objects from 2D images. However, vanilla NeRF has a few important limitations. NeRF must be trained on each object separately. The training time is long since we encode the object's shape and color in neural network weights. Moreover, NeRF does not generalize well to unseen data. In this paper, we present MultiPlaneNeRF -- a first model that simultaneously solves all the above problems. Our model works directly on 2D images. We project 3D points on 2D images to produce non-trainable representations. The projection step is not parametrized, and a very shallow decoder can efficiently process the representation. Using existing images as part of NeRF can significantly reduce the number of parameters since we train only a small implicit decoder. Furthermore, we can train MultiPlaneNeRF on a large data set and force our implicit decoder to generalize across many objects. Consequently, we can only replace the 2D images (without additional training) to produce a NeRF representation of the new object. In the experimental section, we demonstrate that MultiPlaneNeRF achieves comparable results to state-of-the-art models for synthesizing new views and has generalization properties. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Tree of Thoughts: Deliberate Problem Solving with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10601  
**Abstract:** Language models are increasingly being deployed for general problem solving across a wide range of tasks, but are still confined to token-level, left-to-right decision-making processes during inference. This means they can fall short in tasks that require exploration, strategic lookahead, or where initial decisions play a pivotal role. To surmount these challenges, we introduce a new framework for language model inference, Tree of Thoughts (ToT), which generalizes over the popular Chain of Thought approach to prompting language models, and enables exploration over coherent units of text (thoughts) that serve as intermediate steps toward problem solving. ToT allows LMs to perform deliberate decision making by considering multiple different reasoning paths and self-evaluating choices to decide the next course of action, as well as looking ahead or backtracking when necessary to make global choices. Our experiments show that ToT significantly enhances language models' problem-solving abilities on three novel tasks requiring non-trivial planning or search: Game of 24, Creative Writing, and Mini Crosswords. For instance, in Game of 24, while GPT-4 with chain-of-thought prompting only solved 4% of tasks, our method achieved a success rate of 74%. Code repo with all prompts: https://github.com/ysymyth/tree-of-thought-llm. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Solving Cosine Similarity Underestimation between High Frequency Words  by L2 Norm Discounting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10610  
**Abstract:** Cosine similarity between two words, computed using their contextualised token embeddings obtained from masked language models (MLMs) such as BERT has shown to underestimate the actual similarity between those words (Zhou et al., 2022). This similarity underestimation problem is particularly severe for highly frequent words. Although this problem has been noted in prior work, no solution has been proposed thus far. We observe that the L2 norm of contextualised embeddings of a word correlates with its log-frequency in the pretraining corpus. Consequently, the larger L2 norms associated with the highly frequent words reduce the cosine similarity values measured between them, thus underestimating the similarity scores. To solve this issue, we propose a method to discount the L2 norm of a contextualised word embedding by the frequency of that word in a corpus when measuring the cosine similarities between words. We show that the so called stop words behave differently from the rest of the words, which require special consideration during their discounting process. Experimental results on a contextualised word similarity dataset show that our proposed discounting method accurately solves the similarity underestimation problem. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Token-wise Decomposition of Autoregressive Language Model Hidden States  for Analyzing Model Predictions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10614  
**Abstract:** While there is much recent interest in studying why Transformer-based large language models make predictions the way they do, the complex computations performed within each layer have traditionally posed a strong bottleneck. To mitigate this shortcoming, this work presents a linear decomposition of final hidden states from autoregressive language models based on each initial input token, which is exact for virtually all contemporary Transformer architectures. This decomposition allows the definition of probability distributions that ablate the contribution of specific input tokens, which can be used to analyze their influence on model probabilities over a sequence of upcoming words with only one forward pass from the model. Using the change in next-word probability as a measure of importance, this work first examines which context words make the biggest contribution to language model predictions. Regression experiments suggest that Transformer-based language models rely primarily on collocational associations, followed by linguistic factors such as syntactic dependencies and coreference relationships in making next-word predictions. Additionally, analyses using these measures to predict syntactic dependencies and coreferent mention spans show that collocational association and repetitions of the same token respectively, largely explain the language model's predictions on the tasks. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Language Models Meet World Models: Embodied Experiences Enhance Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10626  
**Abstract:** While large language models (LMs) have shown remarkable capabilities across numerous tasks, they often struggle with simple reasoning and planning in physical environments, such as understanding object permanence or planning household activities. The limitation arises from the fact that LMs are trained only on written text and miss essential embodied knowledge and skills. In this paper, we propose a new paradigm of enhancing LMs by finetuning them with world models, to gain diverse embodied knowledge while retaining their general language capabilities. Our approach deploys an embodied agent in a world model, particularly a simulator of the physical world (VirtualHome), and acquires a diverse set of embodied experiences through both goal-oriented planning and random exploration. These experiences are then used to finetune LMs to teach diverse abilities of reasoning and acting in the physical world, e.g., planning and completing goals, object permanence and tracking, etc. Moreover, it is desirable to preserve the generality of LMs during finetuning, which facilitates generalizing the embodied knowledge across tasks rather than being tied to specific simulations. We thus further introduce the classical elastic weight consolidation (EWC) for selective weight updates, combined with low-rank adapters (LoRA) for training efficiency. Extensive experiments show our approach substantially improves base LMs on 18 downstream tasks by 64.28% on average. In particular, the small LMs (1.3B and 6B) enhanced by our approach match or even outperform much larger LMs (e.g., ChatGPT). 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Are Large Language Models Fit For Guided Reading?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10645  
**Abstract:** This paper looks at the ability of large language models to participate in educational guided reading. We specifically, evaluate their ability to generate meaningful questions from the input text, generate diverse questions both in terms of content coverage and difficulty of the questions and evaluate their ability to recommend part of the text that a student should re-read based on the student's responses to the questions. Based on our evaluation of ChatGPT and Bard, we report that, 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Ethical ChatGPT: Concerns, Challenges, and Commandments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10646  
**Abstract:** Large language models, e.g. ChatGPT are currently contributing enormously to make artificial intelligence even more popular, especially among the general population. However, such chatbot models were developed as tools to support natural language communication between humans. Problematically, it is very much a ``statistical correlation machine" (correlation instead of causality) and there are indeed ethical concerns associated with the use of AI language models such as ChatGPT, such as Bias, Privacy, and Abuse. This paper highlights specific ethical concerns on ChatGPT and articulates key challenges when ChatGPT is used in various applications. Practical commandments for different stakeholders of ChatGPT are also proposed that can serve as checklist guidelines for those applying ChatGPT in their applications. These commandment examples are expected to motivate the ethical use of ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** PTQD: Accurate Post-Training Quantization for Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10657  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have recently dominated image synthesis and other related generative tasks. However, the iterative denoising process is expensive in computations at inference time, making diffusion models less practical for low-latency and scalable real-world applications. Post-training quantization of diffusion models can significantly reduce the model size and accelerate the sampling process without requiring any re-training. Nonetheless, applying existing post-training quantization methods directly to low-bit diffusion models can significantly impair the quality of generated samples. Specifically, for each denoising step, quantization noise leads to deviations in the estimated mean and mismatches with the predetermined variance schedule. Moreover, as the sampling process proceeds, the quantization noise may accumulate, resulting in a low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in late denoising steps. To address these challenges, we propose a unified formulation for the quantization noise and diffusion perturbed noise in the quantized denoising process. We first disentangle the quantization noise into its correlated and residual uncorrelated parts regarding its full-precision counterpart. The correlated part can be easily corrected by estimating the correlation coefficient. For the uncorrelated part, we calibrate the denoising variance schedule to absorb the excess variance resulting from quantization. Moreover, we propose a mixed-precision scheme to choose the optimal bitwidth for each denoising step, which prefers low bits to accelerate the early denoising steps while high bits maintain the high SNR for the late steps. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms previous post-training quantized diffusion models in generating high-quality samples, with only a 0.06 increase in FID score compared to full-precision LDM-4 on ImageNet 256x256, while saving 19.9x bit operations. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Content-based Unrestricted Adversarial Attack  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10665  
**Abstract:** Unrestricted adversarial attacks typically manipulate the semantic content of an image (e.g., color or texture) to create adversarial examples that are both effective and photorealistic, demonstrating their ability to deceive human perception and deep neural networks with stealth and success. However, current works usually sacrifice unrestricted degrees and subjectively select some image content to guarantee the photorealism of unrestricted adversarial examples, which limits its attack performance. To ensure the photorealism of adversarial examples and boost attack performance, we propose a novel unrestricted attack framework called Content-based Unrestricted Adversarial Attack. By leveraging a low-dimensional manifold that represents natural images, we map the images onto the manifold and optimize them along its adversarial direction. Therefore, within this framework, we implement Adversarial Content Attack based on Stable Diffusion and can generate high transferable unrestricted adversarial examples with various adversarial contents. Extensive experimentation and visualization demonstrate the efficacy of ACA, particularly in surpassing state-of-the-art attacks by an average of 13.3-50.4% and 16.8-48.0% in normally trained models and defense methods, respectively. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Think Outside the Code: Brainstorming Boosts Large Language Models in  Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10679  
**Abstract:** Code generation aims to automatically generate source code from high-level task specifications, which can significantly increase productivity of software engineering. Recently, approaches based on large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable code generation abilities on simple tasks. However, generate code for more complex tasks, such as competition-level problems, remains challenging. In this paper, we introduce Brainstorm framework for code generation. It leverages a brainstorming step that generates and selects diverse thoughts on the problem to facilitate algorithmic reasoning, where the thoughts are possible blueprint of solving the problem. We demonstrate that Brainstorm significantly enhances the ability of LLMs to solve competition-level programming problems, resulting in a more than 50% increase in the pass@$k$ metrics for ChatGPT on the CodeContests benchmark, achieving state-of-the-art performance. Furthermore, our experiments conducted on LeetCode contests show that our framework boosts the ability of ChatGPT to a level comparable to that of human programmers. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** RMSSinger: Realistic-Music-Score based Singing Voice Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10686  
**Abstract:** We are interested in a challenging task, Realistic-Music-Score based Singing Voice Synthesis (RMS-SVS). RMS-SVS aims to generate high-quality singing voices given realistic music scores with different note types (grace, slur, rest, etc.). Though significant progress has been achieved, recent singing voice synthesis (SVS) methods are limited to fine-grained music scores, which require a complicated data collection pipeline with time-consuming manual annotation to align music notes with phonemes. Furthermore, these manual annotation destroys the regularity of note durations in music scores, making fine-grained music scores inconvenient for composing. To tackle these challenges, we propose RMSSinger, the first RMS-SVS method, which takes realistic music scores as input, eliminating most of the tedious manual annotation and avoiding the aforementioned inconvenience. Note that music scores are based on words rather than phonemes, in RMSSinger, we introduce word-level modeling to avoid the time-consuming phoneme duration annotation and the complicated phoneme-level mel-note alignment. Furthermore, we propose the first diffusion-based pitch modeling method, which ameliorates the naturalness of existing pitch-modeling methods. To achieve these, we collect a new dataset containing realistic music scores and singing voices according to these realistic music scores from professional singers. Extensive experiments on the dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods. Audio samples are available at https://rmssinger.github.io/. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** MolXPT: Wrapping Molecules with Text for Generative Pre-training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10688  
**Abstract:** Generative pre-trained Transformer (GPT) has demonstrates its great success in natural language processing and related techniques have been adapted into molecular modeling. Considering that text is the most important record for scientific discovery, in this paper, we propose MolXPT, a unified language model of text and molecules pre-trained on SMILES (a sequence representation of molecules) wrapped by text. Briefly, we detect the molecule names in each sequence and replace them to the corresponding SMILES. In this way, the SMILES could leverage the information from surrounding text, and vice versa. The above wrapped sequences, text sequences from PubMed and SMILES sequences from PubChem are all fed into a language model for pre-training. Experimental results demonstrate that MolXPT outperforms strong baselines of molecular property prediction on MoleculeNet, performs comparably to the best model in text-molecule translation while using less than half of its parameters, and enables zero-shot molecular generation without finetuning. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Sampling, Diffusions, and Stochastic Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10690  
**Abstract:** Diffusions are a successful technique to sample from high-dimensional distributions can be either explicitly given or learnt from a collection of samples. They implement a diffusion process whose endpoint is a sample from the target distribution and whose drift is typically represented as a neural network. Stochastic localization is a successful technique to prove mixing of Markov Chains and other functional inequalities in high dimension. An algorithmic version of stochastic localization was introduced in [EAMS2022], to obtain an algorithm that samples from certain statistical mechanics models. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Dirichlet Diffusion Score Model for Biological Sequence Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10699  
**Abstract:** Designing biological sequences is an important challenge that requires satisfying complex constraints and thus is a natural problem to address with deep generative modeling. Diffusion generative models have achieved considerable success in many applications. Score-based generative stochastic differential equations (SDE) model is a continuous-time diffusion model framework that enjoys many benefits, but the originally proposed SDEs are not naturally designed for modeling discrete data. To develop generative SDE models for discrete data such as biological sequences, here we introduce a diffusion process defined in the probability simplex space with stationary distribution being the Dirichlet distribution. This makes diffusion in continuous space natural for modeling discrete data. We refer to this approach as Dirchlet diffusion score model. We demonstrate that this technique can generate samples that satisfy hard constraints using a Sudoku generation task. This generative model can also solve Sudoku, including hard puzzles, without additional training. Finally, we applied this approach to develop the first human promoter DNA sequence design model and showed that designed sequences share similar properties with natural promoter sequences. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Zero-Day Backdoor Attack against Text-to-Image Diffusion Models via  Personalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10701  
**Abstract:** Although recent personalization methods have democratized high-resolution image synthesis by enabling swift concept acquisition with minimal examples and lightweight computation, they also present an exploitable avenue for high accessible backdoor attacks. This paper investigates a critical and unexplored aspect of text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models - their potential vulnerability to backdoor attacks via personalization. Our study focuses on a zero-day backdoor vulnerability prevalent in two families of personalization methods, epitomized by Textual Inversion and DreamBooth.Compared to traditional backdoor attacks, our proposed method can facilitate more precise, efficient, and easily accessible attacks with a lower barrier to entry. We provide a comprehensive review of personalization in T2I diffusion models, highlighting the operation and exploitation potential of this backdoor vulnerability. To be specific, by studying the prompt processing of Textual Inversion and DreamBooth, we have devised dedicated backdoor attacks according to the different ways of dealing with unseen tokens and analyzed the influence of triggers and concept images on the attack effect. Our empirical study has shown that the nouveau-token backdoor attack has better attack performance while legacy-token backdoor attack is potentially harder to defend. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** A Survey on Time-Series Pre-Trained Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10716  
**Abstract:** Time-Series Mining (TSM) is an important research area since it shows great potential in practical applications. Deep learning models that rely on massive labeled data have been utilized for TSM successfully. However, constructing a large-scale well-labeled dataset is difficult due to data annotation costs. Recently, Pre-Trained Models have gradually attracted attention in the time series domain due to their remarkable performance in computer vision and natural language processing. In this survey, we provide a comprehensive review of Time-Series Pre-Trained Models (TS-PTMs), aiming to guide the understanding, applying, and studying TS-PTMs. Specifically, we first briefly introduce the typical deep learning models employed in TSM. Then, we give an overview of TS-PTMs according to the pre-training techniques. The main categories we explore include supervised, unsupervised, and self-supervised TS-PTMs. Further, extensive experiments are conducted to analyze the advantages and disadvantages of transfer learning strategies, Transformer-based models, and representative TS-PTMs. Finally, we point out some potential directions of TS-PTMs for future work. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Discriminative Diffusion Models as Few-shot Vision and Language Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10722  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models, such as Stable Diffusion, have shown incredible performance on text-to-image generation. Since text-to-image generation often requires models to generate visual concepts with fine-grained details and attributes specified in text prompts, can we leverage the powerful representations learned by pre-trained diffusion models for discriminative tasks such as image-text matching? To answer this question, we propose a novel approach, Discriminative Stable Diffusion (DSD), which turns pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models into few-shot discriminative learners. Our approach uses the cross-attention score of a Stable Diffusion model to capture the mutual influence between visual and textual information and fine-tune the model via attention-based prompt learning to perform image-text matching. By comparing DSD with state-of-the-art methods on several benchmark datasets, we demonstrate the potential of using pre-trained diffusion models for discriminative tasks with superior results on few-shot image-text matching. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Boost Vision Transformer with GPU-Friendly Sparsity and Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10727  
**Abstract:** The transformer extends its success from the language to the vision domain. Because of the stacked self-attention and cross-attention blocks, the acceleration deployment of vision transformer on GPU hardware is challenging and also rarely studied. This paper thoroughly designs a compression scheme to maximally utilize the GPU-friendly 2:4 fine-grained structured sparsity and quantization. Specially, an original large model with dense weight parameters is first pruned into a sparse one by 2:4 structured pruning, which considers the GPU's acceleration of 2:4 structured sparse pattern with FP16 data type, then the floating-point sparse model is further quantized into a fixed-point one by sparse-distillation-aware quantization aware training, which considers GPU can provide an extra speedup of 2:4 sparse calculation with integer tensors. A mixed-strategy knowledge distillation is used during the pruning and quantization process. The proposed compression scheme is flexible to support supervised and unsupervised learning styles. Experiment results show GPUSQ-ViT scheme achieves state-of-the-art compression by reducing vision transformer models 6.4-12.7 times on model size and 30.3-62 times on FLOPs with negligible accuracy degradation on ImageNet classification, COCO detection and ADE20K segmentation benchmarking tasks. Moreover, GPUSQ-ViT can boost actual deployment performance by 1.39-1.79 times and 3.22-3.43 times of latency and throughput on A100 GPU, and 1.57-1.69 times and 2.11-2.51 times improvement of latency and throughput on AGX Orin. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Diffusion-Based Speech Enhancement with Joint Generative and Predictive  Decoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10734  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based speech enhancement (SE) has been investigated recently, but its decoding is very time-consuming. One solution is to initialize the decoding process with the enhanced feature estimated by a predictive SE system. However, this two-stage method ignores the complementarity between predictive and diffusion SE. In this paper, we propose a unified system that integrates these two SE modules. The system encodes both generative and predictive information, and then applies both generative and predictive decoders, whose outputs are fused. Specifically, the two SE modules are fused in the first and final diffusion steps: the first step fusion initializes the diffusion process with the predictive SE for improving the convergence, and the final step fusion combines the two complementary SE outputs to improve the SE performance. Experiments on the Voice-Bank dataset show that the diffusion score estimation can benefit from the predictive information and speed up the decoding. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Multi-resolution Spatiotemporal Enhanced Transformer Denoising with  Functional Diffusive GANs for Constructing Brain Effective Connectivity in  MCI analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10754  
**Abstract:** Effective connectivity can describe the causal patterns among brain regions. These patterns have the potential to reveal the pathological mechanism and promote early diagnosis and effective drug development for cognitive disease. However, the current studies mainly focus on using empirical functional time series to calculate effective connections, which may not comprehensively capture the complex causal relationships between brain regions. In this paper, a novel Multi-resolution Spatiotemporal Enhanced Transformer Denoising (MSETD) network with an adversarially functional diffusion model is proposed to map functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) into effective connectivity for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) analysis. To be specific, the denoising framework leverages a conditional diffusion process that progressively translates the noise and conditioning fMRI to effective connectivity in an end-to-end manner. To ensure reverse diffusion quality and diversity, the multi-resolution enhanced transformer generator is designed to extract local and global spatiotemporal features. Furthermore, a multi-scale diffusive transformer discriminator is devised to capture the temporal patterns at different scales for generation stability. Evaluations of the ADNI datasets demonstrate the feasibility and efficacy of the proposed model. The proposed model not only achieves superior prediction performance compared with other competing methods but also identifies MCI-related causal connections that are consistent with clinical studies. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** OpenShape: Scaling Up 3D Shape Representation Towards Open-World  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10764  
**Abstract:** We introduce OpenShape, a method for learning multi-modal joint representations of text, image, and point clouds. We adopt the commonly used multi-modal contrastive learning framework for representation alignment, but with a specific focus on scaling up 3D representations to enable open-world 3D shape understanding. To achieve this, we scale up training data by ensembling multiple 3D datasets and propose several strategies to automatically filter and enrich noisy text descriptions. We also explore and compare strategies for scaling 3D backbone networks and introduce a novel hard negative mining module for more efficient training. We evaluate OpenShape on zero-shot 3D classification benchmarks and demonstrate its superior capabilities for open-world recognition. Specifically, OpenShape achieves a zero-shot accuracy of 46.8% on the 1,156-category Objaverse-LVIS benchmark, compared to less than 10% for existing methods. OpenShape also achieves an accuracy of 85.3% on ModelNet40, outperforming previous zero-shot baseline methods by 20% and performing on par with some fully-supervised methods. Furthermore, we show that our learned embeddings encode a wide range of visual and semantic concepts (e.g., subcategories, color, shape, style) and facilitate fine-grained text-3D and image-3D interactions. Due to their alignment with CLIP embeddings, our learned shape representations can also be integrated with off-the-shelf CLIP-based models for various applications, such as point cloud captioning and point cloud-conditioned image generation. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Catch-Up Distillation: You Only Need to Train Once for Accelerating  Sampling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10769  
**Abstract:** Diffusion Probability Models (DPMs) have made impressive advancements in various machine learning domains. However, achieving high-quality synthetic samples typically involves performing a large number of sampling steps, which impedes the possibility of real-time sample synthesis. Traditional accelerated sampling algorithms via knowledge distillation rely on pre-trained model weights and discrete time step scenarios, necessitating additional training sessions to achieve their goals. To address these issues, we propose the Catch-Up Distillation (CUD), which encourages the current moment output of the velocity estimation model ``catch up'' with its previous moment output. Specifically, CUD adjusts the original Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE) training objective to align the current moment output with both the ground truth label and the previous moment output, utilizing Runge-Kutta-based multi-step alignment distillation for precise ODE estimation while preventing asynchronous updates. Furthermore, we investigate the design space for CUDs under continuous time-step scenarios and analyze how to determine the suitable strategies. To demonstrate CUD's effectiveness, we conduct thorough ablation and comparison experiments on CIFAR-10, MNIST, and ImageNet-64. On CIFAR-10, we obtain a FID of 2.80 by sampling in 15 steps under one-session training and the new state-of-the-art FID of 3.37 by sampling in one step with additional training. This latter result necessitated only 62w iterations with a batch size of 128, in contrast to Consistency Distillation, which demanded 210w iterations with a larger batch size of 256. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Supercloseness of the LDG method for a two-dimensional singularly  perturbed convection-diffusion problem on Bakhvalov-type mesh  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10778  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we focus on analyzing the supercloseness property of a two-dimensional singularly perturbed convection-diffusion problem with exponential boundary layers. The local discontinuous Galerkin (LDG) method with piecewise tensor-product polynomials of degree k is applied to Bakhvalov-type mesh. By developing special two-dimensional local Gauss-Radau projections and establishing a novel interpolation, supercloseness of an optimal order k+1 can be achieved on Bakhvalov-type mesh. It is crucial to highlight that this supercloseness result is independent of the singular perturbation parameter. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Ditto: A Simple and Efficient Approach to Improve Sentence Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10786  
**Abstract:** Prior studies diagnose the anisotropy problem in sentence representations from pre-trained language models, e.g., BERT, without fine-tuning. Our analysis reveals that the sentence embeddings from BERT suffer from a bias towards uninformative words, limiting the performance in semantic textual similarity (STS) tasks. To address this bias, we propose a simple and efficient unsupervised approach, Diagonal Attention Pooling (Ditto), which weights words with model-based importance estimations and computes the weighted average of word representations from pre-trained models as sentence embeddings. Ditto can be easily applied to any pre-trained language model as a postprocessing operation. Compared to prior sentence embedding approaches, Ditto does not add parameters nor requires any learning. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that our proposed Ditto can alleviate the anisotropy problem and improve various pre-trained models on STS tasks. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Democratized Diffusion Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10818  
**Abstract:** Despite the potential benefits of Diffusion Models for NLP applications, publicly available implementations, trained models, or reproducible training procedures currently need to be publicly available. We present the Democratized Diffusion Language Model (DDLM), based on the Continuous Diffusion for Categorical Data (CDCD) framework, to address these challenges. We propose a simplified training procedure for DDLM using the C4 dataset and perform an in-depth analysis of the trained model's behavior. Furthermore, we introduce a novel early-exiting strategy for faster sampling with models trained with score interpolation. Since no previous works aimed at solving downstream tasks with pre-trained Diffusion LM (e.g., classification tasks), we experimented with GLUE Benchmark to study the ability of DDLM to transfer knowledge. With this paper, we propose available training and evaluation pipelines to other researchers and pre-trained DDLM models, which could be used in future research with Diffusion LMs. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** When Search Meets Recommendation: Learning Disentangled Search  Representation for Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10822  
**Abstract:** Modern online service providers such as online shopping platforms often provide both search and recommendation (S&R) services to meet different user needs. Rarely has there been any effective means of incorporating user behavior data from both S&R services. Most existing approaches either simply treat S&R behaviors separately, or jointly optimize them by aggregating data from both services, ignoring the fact that user intents in S&R can be distinctively different. In our paper, we propose a Search-Enhanced framework for the Sequential Recommendation (SESRec) that leverages users' search interests for recommendation, by disentangling similar and dissimilar representations within S&R behaviors. Specifically, SESRec first aligns query and item embeddings based on users' query-item interactions for the computations of their similarities. Two transformer encoders are used to learn the contextual representations of S&R behaviors independently. Then a contrastive learning task is designed to supervise the disentanglement of similar and dissimilar representations from behavior sequences of S&R. Finally, we extract user interests by the attention mechanism from three perspectives, i.e., the contextual representations, the two separated behaviors containing similar and dissimilar interests. Extensive experiments on both industrial and public datasets demonstrate that SESRec consistently outperforms state-of-the-art models. Empirical studies further validate that SESRec successfully disentangle similar and dissimilar user interests from their S&R behaviors. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** DiffUTE: Universal Text Editing Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10825  
**Abstract:** Diffusion model based language-guided image editing has achieved great success recently. However, existing state-of-the-art diffusion models struggle with rendering correct text and text style during generation. To tackle this problem, we propose a universal self-supervised text editing diffusion model (DiffUTE), which aims to replace or modify words in the source image with another one while maintaining its realistic appearance. Specifically, we build our model on a diffusion model and carefully modify the network structure to enable the model for drawing multilingual characters with the help of glyph and position information. Moreover, we design a self-supervised learning framework to leverage large amounts of web data to improve the representation ability of the model. Experimental results show that our method achieves an impressive performance and enables controllable editing on in-the-wild images with high fidelity. Our code will be avaliable in \url{https://github.com/chenhaoxing/DiffUTE}. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Constructing a personalized AI assistant for shear wall layout using  Stable Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10830  
**Abstract:** Shear wall structures are widely used in high-rise residential buildings, and the layout of shear walls requires many years of design experience and iterative trial and error. Currently, there are methods based on heuristic algorithms, but they generate results too slowly. Those based on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) or Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) can only generate single arrangements and require large amounts of training data. At present, Stable Diffusion is being widely used, and by using the Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) method to fine-tune large models with small amounts of data, good generative results can be achieved. Therefore, this paper proposes a personalized AI assistant for shear wall layout based on Stable Diffusion, which has been proven to produce good generative results through testing. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Deep Learning Methods for Extracting Metaphorical Names of Flowers and  Plants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10833  
**Abstract:** The domain of Botany is rich with metaphorical terms. Those terms play an important role in the description and identification of flowers and plants. However, the identification of such terms in discourse is an arduous task. This leads in some cases to committing errors during translation processes and lexicographic tasks. The process is even more challenging when it comes to machine translation, both in the cases of single-word terms and multi-word terms. One of the recent concerns of Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications and Machine Translation (MT) technologies is the automatic identification of metaphor-based words in discourse through Deep Learning (DL). In this study, we seek to fill this gap through the use of thirteen popular transformer based models, as well as ChatGPT, and we show that discriminative models perform better than GPT-3.5 model with our best performer reporting 92.2349% F1 score in metaphoric flower and plant names identification task. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** AIwriting: Relations Between Image Generation and Digital Writing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10834  
**Abstract:** During 2022, both transformer-based AI text generation sys-tems such as GPT-3 and AI text-to-image generation systems such as DALL-E 2 and Stable Diffusion made exponential leaps forward and are unquestionably altering the fields of digital art and electronic literature. In this panel a group of electronic literature authors and theorists consider new oppor-tunities for human creativity presented by these systems and present new works have produced during the past year that specifically address these systems as environments for literary expressions that are translated through iterative interlocutive processes into visual representations. The premise that binds these presentations is that these systems and the works gener-ated must be considered from a literary perspective, as they originate in human writing. In works ranging from a visual memoir of the personal experience of a health crisis, to interac-tive web comics, to architectures based on abstract poetic language, to political satire, four artists explore the capabili-ties of these writing environments for new genres of literary artist practice, while a digital culture theorist considers the origins and effects of the particular training datasets of human language and images on which these new hybrid forms are based. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Ahead-of-Time P-Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10835  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose Ahead-of-Time (AoT) P-Tuning, a novel parameter-efficient fine-tuning method for pre-trained Language Models (LMs) that adds input-dependent bias before each Transformer layer. We evaluate AoT P-Tuning on GLUE and SuperGLUE benchmarking datasets using RoBERTa and DeBERTa models, showing that it outperforms BitFit and is comparable or better than other baseline methods for efficient fine-tuning. Additionally, we assess the inference overhead of AoT P-Tuning and demonstrate that it introduces negligible overhead compared to established baseline methods. Our method enables multi-task inference with a single backbone LM, making it a practical solution for real-world applications. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** A Lexical-aware Non-autoregressive Transformer-based ASR Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10839  
**Abstract:** Non-autoregressive automatic speech recognition (ASR) has become a mainstream of ASR modeling because of its fast decoding speed and satisfactory result. To further boost the performance, relaxing the conditional independence assumption and cascading large-scaled pre-trained models are two active research directions. In addition to these strategies, we propose a lexical-aware non-autoregressive Transformer-based (LA-NAT) ASR framework, which consists of an acoustic encoder, a speech-text shared encoder, and a speech-text shared decoder. The acoustic encoder is used to process the input speech features as usual, and the speech-text shared encoder and decoder are designed to train speech and text data simultaneously. By doing so, LA-NAT aims to make the ASR model aware of lexical information, so the resulting model is expected to achieve better results by leveraging the learned linguistic knowledge. A series of experiments are conducted on the AISHELL-1, CSJ, and TEDLIUM 2 datasets. According to the experiments, the proposed LA-NAT can provide superior results than other recently proposed non-autoregressive ASR models. In addition, LA-NAT is a relatively compact model than most non-autoregressive ASR models, and it is about 58 times faster than the classic autoregressive model. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** GETMusic: Generating Any Music Tracks with a Unified Representation and  Diffusion Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10841  
**Abstract:** Symbolic music generation aims to create musical notes, which can help users compose music, such as generating target instrumental tracks from scratch, or based on user-provided source tracks. Considering the diverse and flexible combination between source and target tracks, a unified model capable of generating any arbitrary tracks is of crucial necessity. Previous works fail to address this need due to inherent constraints in music representations and model architectures. To address this need, we propose a unified representation and diffusion framework named GETMusic (`GET' stands for GEnerate music Tracks), which includes a novel music representation named GETScore, and a diffusion model named GETDiff. GETScore represents notes as tokens and organizes them in a 2D structure, with tracks stacked vertically and progressing horizontally over time. During training, tracks are randomly selected as either the target or source. In the forward process, target tracks are corrupted by masking their tokens, while source tracks remain as ground truth. In the denoising process, GETDiff learns to predict the masked target tokens, conditioning on the source tracks. With separate tracks in GETScore and the non-autoregressive behavior of the model, GETMusic can explicitly control the generation of any target tracks from scratch or conditioning on source tracks. We conduct experiments on music generation involving six instrumental tracks, resulting in a total of 665 combinations. GETMusic provides high-quality results across diverse combinations and surpasses prior works proposed for some specific combinations. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** X-IQE: eXplainable Image Quality Evaluation for Text-to-Image Generation  with Visual Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10843  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a novel explainable image quality evaluation approach called X-IQE, which leverages visual large language models (LLMs) to evaluate text-to-image generation methods by generating textual explanations. X-IQE utilizes a hierarchical Chain of Thought (CoT) to enable MiniGPT-4 to produce self-consistent, unbiased texts that are highly correlated with human evaluation. It offers several advantages, including the ability to distinguish between real and generated images, evaluate text-image alignment, and assess image aesthetics without requiring model training or fine-tuning. X-IQE is more cost-effective and efficient compared to human evaluation, while significantly enhancing the transparency and explainability of deep image quality evaluation models. We validate the effectiveness of our method as a benchmark using images generated by prevalent diffusion models. X-IQE demonstrates similar performance to state-of-the-art (SOTA) evaluation methods on COCO Caption, while overcoming the limitations of previous evaluation models on DrawBench, particularly in handling ambiguous generation prompts and text recognition in generated images. Project website: https://github.com/Schuture/Benchmarking-Awesome-Diffusion-Models 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Large Language Models can be Guided to Evade AI-Generated Text Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10847  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional performance in a variety of tasks, including essay writing and question answering. However, it is crucial to address the potential misuse of these models, which can lead to detrimental outcomes such as plagiarism and spamming. Recently, several detectors have been proposed, including fine-tuned classifiers and various statistical methods. In this study, we reveal that with the aid of carefully crafted prompts, LLMs can effectively evade these detection systems. We propose a novel Substitution-based In-Context example Optimization method (SICO) to automatically generate such prompts. On three real-world tasks where LLMs can be misused, SICO successfully enables ChatGPT to evade six existing detectors, causing a significant 0.54 AUC drop on average. Surprisingly, in most cases these detectors perform even worse than random classifiers. These results firmly reveal the vulnerability of existing detectors. Finally, the strong performance of SICO suggests itself as a reliable evaluation protocol for any new detector in this field. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** LDM3D: Latent Diffusion Model for 3D  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10853  
**Abstract:** This research paper proposes a Latent Diffusion Model for 3D (LDM3D) that generates both image and depth map data from a given text prompt, allowing users to generate RGBD images from text prompts. The LDM3D model is fine-tuned on a dataset of tuples containing an RGB image, depth map and caption, and validated through extensive experiments. We also develop an application called DepthFusion, which uses the generated RGB images and depth maps to create immersive and interactive 360-degree-view experiences using TouchDesigner. This technology has the potential to transform a wide range of industries, from entertainment and gaming to architecture and design. Overall, this paper presents a significant contribution to the field of generative AI and computer vision, and showcases the potential of LDM3D and DepthFusion to revolutionize content creation and digital experiences. A short video summarizing the approach can be found at https://t.ly/tdi2. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** TextDiffuser: Diffusion Models as Text Painters  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10855  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have gained increasing attention for their impressive generation abilities but currently struggle with rendering accurate and coherent text. To address this issue, we introduce \textbf{TextDiffuser}, focusing on generating images with visually appealing text that is coherent with backgrounds. TextDiffuser consists of two stages: first, a Transformer model generates the layout of keywords extracted from text prompts, and then diffusion models generate images conditioned on the text prompt and the generated layout. Additionally, we contribute the first large-scale text images dataset with OCR annotations, \textbf{MARIO-10M}, containing 10 million image-text pairs with text recognition, detection, and character-level segmentation annotations. We further collect the \textbf{MARIO-Eval} benchmark to serve as a comprehensive tool for evaluating text rendering quality. Through experiments and user studies, we show that TextDiffuser is flexible and controllable to create high-quality text images using text prompts alone or together with text template images, and conduct text inpainting to reconstruct incomplete images with text. The code, model, and dataset will be available at \url{https://aka.ms/textdiffuser}. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Latent Space Planning for Multi-Object Manipulation with  Environment-Aware Relational Classifiers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10857  
**Abstract:** Objects rarely sit in isolation in everyday human environments. If we want robots to operate and perform tasks in our human environments, they must understand how the objects they manipulate will interact with structural elements of the environment for all but the simplest of tasks. As such, we'd like our robots to reason about how multiple objects and environmental elements relate to one another and how those relations may change as the robot interacts with the world. We examine the problem of predicting inter-object and object-environment relations between previously unseen objects and novel environments purely from partial-view point clouds. Our approach enables robots to plan and execute sequences to complete multi-object manipulation tasks defined from logical relations. This removes the burden of providing explicit, continuous object states as goals to the robot. We explore several different neural network architectures for this task. We find the best performing model to be a novel transformer-based neural network that both predicts object-environment relations and learns a latent-space dynamics function. We achieve reliable sim-to-real transfer without any fine-tuning. Our experiments show that our model understands how changes in observed environmental geometry relate to semantic relations between objects. We show more videos on our website: https://sites.google.com/view/erelationaldynamics. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Meta-Auxiliary Network for 3D GAN Inversion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10884  
**Abstract:** Real-world image manipulation has achieved fantastic progress in recent years. GAN inversion, which aims to map the real image to the latent code faithfully, is the first step in this pipeline. However, existing GAN inversion methods fail to achieve high reconstruction quality and fast inference at the same time. In addition, existing methods are built on 2D GANs and lack explicitly mechanisms to enforce multi-view consistency.In this work, we present a novel meta-auxiliary framework, while leveraging the newly developed 3D GANs as generator. The proposed method adopts a two-stage strategy. In the first stage, we invert the input image to an editable latent code using off-the-shelf inversion techniques. The auxiliary network is proposed to refine the generator parameters with the given image as input, which both predicts offsets for weights of convolutional layers and sampling positions of volume rendering. In the second stage, we perform meta-learning to fast adapt the auxiliary network to the input image, then the final reconstructed image is synthesized via the meta-learned auxiliary network. Extensive experiments show that our method achieves better performances on both inversion and editing tasks. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** A Generalist Dynamics Model for Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10912  
**Abstract:** We investigate the use of transformer sequence models as dynamics models (TDMs) for control. In a number of experiments in the DeepMind control suite, we find that first, TDMs perform well in a single-environment learning setting when compared to baseline models. Second, TDMs exhibit strong generalization capabilities to unseen environments, both in a few-shot setting, where a generalist model is fine-tuned with small amounts of data from the target environment, and in a zero-shot setting, where a generalist model is applied to an unseen environment without any further training. We further demonstrate that generalizing system dynamics can work much better than generalizing optimal behavior directly as a policy. This makes TDMs a promising ingredient for a foundation model of control. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Structural Pruning for Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10924  
**Abstract:** Generative modeling has recently undergone remarkable advancements, primarily propelled by the transformative implications of Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DPMs). The impressive capability of these models, however, often entails significant computational overhead during both training and inference. To tackle this challenge, we present Diff-Pruning, an efficient compression method tailored for learning lightweight diffusion models from pre-existing ones, without the need for extensive re-training. The essence of Diff-Pruning is encapsulated in a Taylor expansion over pruned timesteps, a process that disregards non-contributory diffusion steps and ensembles informative gradients to identify important weights. Our empirical assessment, undertaken across four diverse datasets highlights two primary benefits of our proposed method: 1) Efficiency: it enables approximately a 50% reduction in FLOPs at a mere 10% to 20% of the original training expenditure; 2) Consistency: the pruned diffusion models inherently preserve generative behavior congruent with their pre-trained progenitors. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/VainF/Diff-Pruning}. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Unsupervised Pansharpening via Low-rank Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10925  
**Abstract:** Pansharpening is a process of merging a highresolution panchromatic (PAN) image and a low-resolution multispectral (LRMS) image to create a single high-resolution multispectral (HRMS) image. Most of the existing deep learningbased pansharpening methods have poor generalization ability and the traditional model-based pansharpening methods need careful manual exploration for the image structure prior. To alleviate these issues, this paper proposes an unsupervised pansharpening method by combining the diffusion model with the low-rank matrix factorization technique. Specifically, we assume that the HRMS image is decomposed into the product of two low-rank tensors, i.e., the base tensor and the coefficient matrix. The base tensor lies on the image field and has low spectral dimension, we can thus conveniently utilize a pre-trained remote sensing diffusion model to capture its image structures. Additionally, we derive a simple yet quite effective way to preestimate the coefficient matrix from the observed LRMS image, which preserves the spectral information of the HRMS. Extensive experimental results on some benchmark datasets demonstrate that our proposed method performs better than traditional model-based approaches and has better generalization ability than deep learning-based techniques. The code is released in https://github.com/xyrui/PLRDiff. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** An Android Robot Head as Embodied Conversational Agent  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10945  
**Abstract:** This paper describes, how current Machine Learning (ML) techniques combined with simple rule-based animation routines make an android robot head an embodied conversational agent with ChatGPT as its core component. The android robot head is described, technical details are given of how lip-sync animation is being achieved, and general software design decisions are presented. A public presentation of the system revealed improvement opportunities that are reported and that lead our iterative implementation approach. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Drag Your GAN: Interactive Point-based Manipulation on the Generative  Image Manifold  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10973  
**Abstract:** Synthesizing visual content that meets users' needs often requires flexible and precise controllability of the pose, shape, expression, and layout of the generated objects. Existing approaches gain controllability of generative adversarial networks (GANs) via manually annotated training data or a prior 3D model, which often lack flexibility, precision, and generality. In this work, we study a powerful yet much less explored way of controlling GANs, that is, to "drag" any points of the image to precisely reach target points in a user-interactive manner, as shown in Fig.1. To achieve this, we propose DragGAN, which consists of two main components: 1) a feature-based motion supervision that drives the handle point to move towards the target position, and 2) a new point tracking approach that leverages the discriminative generator features to keep localizing the position of the handle points. Through DragGAN, anyone can deform an image with precise control over where pixels go, thus manipulating the pose, shape, expression, and layout of diverse categories such as animals, cars, humans, landscapes, etc. As these manipulations are performed on the learned generative image manifold of a GAN, they tend to produce realistic outputs even for challenging scenarios such as hallucinating occluded content and deforming shapes that consistently follow the object's rigidity. Both qualitative and quantitative comparisons demonstrate the advantage of DragGAN over prior approaches in the tasks of image manipulation and point tracking. We also showcase the manipulation of real images through GAN inversion. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Less is More! A slim architecture for optimal language translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10991  
**Abstract:** The softmax attention mechanism has emerged as a noteworthy development in the field of Artificial Intelligence research, building on the successes of Transformer-based architectures. However, their ever increasing sizes necessitate ever increasing computational memory, that limits their usage. We propose KgV, a sigmoid gating mechanism that, in conjunction with softmax attention, significantly boosts performance without increasing architecture size. To amend the size requirements, we leverage Tensor Chains to identify and prune the excess parameters. We find that such excess resides primarily within the embedding layer, and not in the output linear layer. To further improve embedding and significantly reduce parameters, we introduce H-SoftPOS, a hierarchical embedding layer which simultaneously enhances performance. Remarkably, on the WMT14 English-German validation set, our approach yields a threefold reduction in perplexity, surpassing the current state-of-the-art, while reducing parameter counts also by a factor of 3. When we further reduce the number of parameters up to sevenfold, we can still achieve a 21\% decrease in perplexity with respect to the baseline Transformer. To understand generalization capabilities, we conduct experiments on the 7 language pairs of the WMT17 dataset. Our method outperforms existing techniques in terms of test loss while simultaneously halving the number of parameters. Moreover, we observe a 70 times reduction in variance with respect to the prior state-of-the-art. In conclusion, our proposed method yields significant improvements in performance and much lower memory cost. We call the resulting architecture Anthe. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** SpeechGPT: Empowering Large Language Models with Intrinsic Cross-Modal  Conversational Abilities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11000  
**Abstract:** Multi-modal large language models are regarded as a crucial step towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) and have garnered significant interest with the emergence of ChatGPT. However, current speech-language models typically adopt the cascade paradigm, preventing inter-modal knowledge transfer. In this paper, we propose SpeechGPT, a large language model with intrinsic cross-modal conversational abilities, capable of perceiving and generating multi-model content. With discrete speech representations, we first construct SpeechInstruct, a large-scale cross-modal speech instruction dataset. Additionally, we employ a three-stage training strategy that includes modality-adaptation pre-training, cross-modal instruction fine-tuning, and chain-of-modality instruction fine-tuning. The experimental results demonstrate that SpeechGPT has an impressive capacity to follow multi-modal human instructions and highlight the potential of handling multiple modalities with one model. Demos are shown in https://0nutation.github.io/SpeechGPT.github.io/. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** FunASR: A Fundamental End-to-End Speech Recognition Toolkit  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11013  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces FunASR, an open-source speech recognition toolkit designed to bridge the gap between academic research and industrial applications. FunASR offers models trained on large-scale industrial corpora and the ability to deploy them in applications. The toolkit's flagship model, Paraformer, is a non-autoregressive end-to-end speech recognition model that has been trained on a manually annotated Mandarin speech recognition dataset that contains 60,000 hours of speech. To improve the performance of Paraformer, we have added timestamp prediction and hotword customization capabilities to the standard Paraformer backbone. In addition, to facilitate model deployment, we have open-sourced a voice activity detection model based on the Feedforward Sequential Memory Network (FSMN-VAD) and a text post-processing punctuation model based on the controllable time-delay Transformer (CT-Transformer), both of which were trained on industrial corpora. These functional modules provide a solid foundation for building high-precision long audio speech recognition services. Compared to other models trained on open datasets, Paraformer demonstrates superior performance. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Generalized Planning in PDDL Domains with Pretrained Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11014  
**Abstract:** Recent work has considered whether large language models (LLMs) can function as planners: given a task, generate a plan. We investigate whether LLMs can serve as generalized planners: given a domain and training tasks, generate a program that efficiently produces plans for other tasks in the domain. In particular, we consider PDDL domains and use GPT-4 to synthesize Python programs. We also consider (1) Chain-of-Thought (CoT) summarization, where the LLM is prompted to summarize the domain and propose a strategy in words before synthesizing the program; and (2) automated debugging, where the program is validated with respect to the training tasks, and in case of errors, the LLM is re-prompted with four types of feedback. We evaluate this approach in seven PDDL domains and compare it to four ablations and four baselines. Overall, we find that GPT-4 is a surprisingly powerful generalized planner. We also conclude that automated debugging is very important, that CoT summarization has non-uniform impact, that GPT-4 is far superior to GPT-3.5, and that just two training tasks are often sufficient for strong generalization. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Annotation-free Audio-Visual Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11019  
**Abstract:** The objective of Audio-Visual Segmentation (AVS) is to locate sounding objects within visual scenes by accurately predicting pixelwise segmentation masks. In this paper, we present the following contributions: (i), we propose a scalable and annotation-free pipeline for generating artificial data for the AVS task. We leverage existing image segmentation and audio datasets to draw links between category labels, image-mask pairs, and audio samples, which allows us to easily compose (image, audio, mask) triplets for training AVS models; (ii), we introduce a novel Audio-Aware Transformer (AuTR) architecture that features an audio-aware query-based transformer decoder. This architecture enables the model to search for sounding objects with the guidance of audio signals, resulting in more accurate segmentation; (iii), we present extensive experiments conducted on both synthetic and real datasets, which demonstrate the effectiveness of training AVS models with synthetic data generated by our proposed pipeline. Additionally, our proposed AuTR architecture exhibits superior performance and strong generalization ability on public benchmarks. The project page is https://jinxiang-liu.github.io/anno-free-AVS/. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Generalized Multiple Intent Conditioned Slot Filling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11023  
**Abstract:** Natural language understanding includes the tasks of intent detection (identifying a user's objectives) and slot filling (extracting the entities relevant to those objectives). Prior slot filling methods assume that each intent type cannot occur more than once within a message, however this is often not a valid assumption for real-world settings. In this work, we generalize slot filling by removing the constraint of unique intents in a message. We cast this as a JSON generation task and approach it using a language model. We create a pre-training dataset by combining DBpedia and existing slot filling datasets that we convert for JSON generation. We also generate an in-domain dataset using GPT-3. We train T5 models for this task (with and without exemplars in the prompt) and find that both training datasets improve performance, and that the model is able to generalize to intent types not seen during training. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** ConsistentNeRF: Enhancing Neural Radiance Fields with 3D Consistency for  Sparse View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11031  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has demonstrated remarkable 3D reconstruction capabilities with dense view images. However, its performance significantly deteriorates under sparse view settings. We observe that learning the 3D consistency of pixels among different views is crucial for improving reconstruction quality in such cases. In this paper, we propose ConsistentNeRF, a method that leverages depth information to regularize both multi-view and single-view 3D consistency among pixels. Specifically, ConsistentNeRF employs depth-derived geometry information and a depth-invariant loss to concentrate on pixels that exhibit 3D correspondence and maintain consistent depth relationships. Extensive experiments on recent representative works reveal that our approach can considerably enhance model performance in sparse view conditions, achieving improvements of up to 94% in PSNR, 76% in SSIM, and 31% in LPIPS compared to the vanilla baselines across various benchmarks, including DTU, NeRF Synthetic, and LLFF. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Trading Syntax Trees for Wordpieces: Target-oriented Opinion Words  Extraction with Wordpieces and Aspect Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11034  
**Abstract:** State-of-the-art target-oriented opinion word extraction (TOWE) models typically use BERT-based text encoders that operate on the word level, along with graph convolutional networks (GCNs) that incorporate syntactic information extracted from syntax trees. These methods achieve limited gains with GCNs and have difficulty using BERT wordpieces. Meanwhile, BERT wordpieces are known to be effective at representing rare words or words with insufficient context information. To address this issue, this work trades syntax trees for BERT wordpieces by entirely removing the GCN component from the methods' architectures. To enhance TOWE performance, we tackle the issue of aspect representation loss during encoding. Instead of solely utilizing a sentence as the input, we use a sentence-aspect pair. Our relatively simple approach achieves state-of-the-art results on benchmark datasets and should serve as a strong baseline for further research. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Late-Binding Scholarship in the Age of AI: Navigating Legal and  Normative Challenges of a New Form of Knowledge Production  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11058  
**Abstract:** Artificial Intelligence (AI) is poised to enable a new leap in the creation of scholarly content. New forms of engagement with AI systems, such as collaborations with large language models like GPT-3, offer affordances that will change the nature of both the scholarly process and the artifacts it produces. This article articulates ways in which those artifacts can be written, distributed, read, organized, and stored that are more dynamic, and potentially more effective, than current academic practices. Specifically, rather than the current "early-binding" process (that is, one in which ideas are fully reduced to a final written form before they leave an author's desk), we propose that there are substantial benefits to a "late-binding" process, in which ideas are written dynamically at the moment of reading. In fact, the paradigm of "binding" knowledge may transition to a new model in which scholarship remains ever "unbound" and evolving. An alternative form for a scholarly work could be encapsulated via several key components: a text abstract of the work's core arguments; hyperlinks to a bibliography of relevant related work; novel data that had been collected and metadata describing those data; algorithms or processes necessary for analyzing those data; a reference to a particular AI model that would serve as a "renderer" of the canonical version of the text; and specified parameters that would allow for a precise, word-for-word reconstruction of the canonical version. Such a form would enable both the rendering of the canonical version, and also the possibility of dynamic AI reimaginings of the text in light of future findings, scholarship unknown to the original authors, alternative theories, and precise tailoring to specific audiences (e.g., children, adults, professionals, amateurs). 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Bits of Grass: Does GPT already know how to write like Whitman?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11064  
**Abstract:** This study examines the ability of GPT-3.5, GPT-3.5-turbo (ChatGPT) and GPT-4 models to generate poems in the style of specific authors using zero-shot and many-shot prompts (which use the maximum context length of 8192 tokens). We assess the performance of models that are not fine-tuned for generating poetry in the style of specific authors, via automated evaluation. Our findings indicate that without fine-tuning, even when provided with the maximum number of 17 poem examples (8192 tokens) in the prompt, these models do not generate poetry in the desired style. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Generating coherent comic with rich story using ChatGPT and Stable  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11067  
**Abstract:** Past work demonstrated that using neural networks, we can extend unfinished music pieces while maintaining the music style of the musician. With recent advancements in large language models and diffusion models, we are now capable of generating comics with an interesting storyline while maintaining the art style of the artist. In this paper, we used ChatGPT to generate storylines and dialogue and then generated the comic using stable diffusion. We introduced a novel way to evaluate AI-generated stories, and we achieved SOTA performance on character fidelity and art style by fine-tuning stable diffusion using LoRA, ControlNet, etc. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Enriching language models with graph-based context information to better  understand textual data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11070  
**Abstract:** A considerable number of texts encountered daily are somehow connected with each other. For example, Wikipedia articles refer to other articles via hyperlinks, scientific papers relate to others via citations or (co)authors, while tweets relate via users that follow each other or reshare content. Hence, a graph-like structure can represent existing connections and be seen as capturing the "context" of the texts. The question thus arises if extracting and integrating such context information into a language model might help facilitate a better automated understanding of the text. In this study, we experimentally demonstrate that incorporating graph-based contextualization into BERT model enhances its performance on an example of a classification task. Specifically, on Pubmed dataset, we observed a reduction in error from 8.51% to 7.96%, while increasing the number of parameters just by 1.6%. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** A Comparative Study on E-Branchformer vs Conformer in Speech  Recognition, Translation, and Understanding Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11073  
**Abstract:** Conformer, a convolution-augmented Transformer variant, has become the de facto encoder architecture for speech processing due to its superior performance in various tasks, including automatic speech recognition (ASR), speech translation (ST) and spoken language understanding (SLU). Recently, a new encoder called E-Branchformer has outperformed Conformer in the LibriSpeech ASR benchmark, making it promising for more general speech applications. This work compares E-Branchformer and Conformer through extensive experiments using different types of end-to-end sequence-to-sequence models. Results demonstrate that E-Branchformer achieves comparable or better performance than Conformer in almost all evaluation sets across 15 ASR, 2 ST, and 3 SLU benchmarks, while being more stable during training. We will release our training configurations and pre-trained models for reproducibility, which can benefit the speech community. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Inspecting the Geographical Representativeness of Images from  Text-to-Image Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11080  
**Abstract:** Recent progress in generative models has resulted in models that produce both realistic as well as relevant images for most textual inputs. These models are being used to generate millions of images everyday, and hold the potential to drastically impact areas such as generative art, digital marketing and data augmentation. Given their outsized impact, it is important to ensure that the generated content reflects the artifacts and surroundings across the globe, rather than over-representing certain parts of the world. In this paper, we measure the geographical representativeness of common nouns (e.g., a house) generated through DALL.E 2 and Stable Diffusion models using a crowdsourced study comprising 540 participants across 27 countries. For deliberately underspecified inputs without country names, the generated images most reflect the surroundings of the United States followed by India, and the top generations rarely reflect surroundings from all other countries (average score less than 3 out of 5). Specifying the country names in the input increases the representativeness by 1.44 points on average for DALL.E 2 and 0.75 for Stable Diffusion, however, the overall scores for many countries still remain low, highlighting the need for future models to be more geographically inclusive. Lastly, we examine the feasibility of quantifying the geographical representativeness of generated images without conducting user studies. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Blackout Diffusion: Generative Diffusion Models in Discrete-State Spaces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11089  
**Abstract:** Typical generative diffusion models rely on a Gaussian diffusion process for training the backward transformations, which can then be used to generate samples from Gaussian noise. However, real world data often takes place in discrete-state spaces, including many scientific applications. Here, we develop a theoretical formulation for arbitrary discrete-state Markov processes in the forward diffusion process using exact (as opposed to variational) analysis. We relate the theory to the existing continuous-state Gaussian diffusion as well as other approaches to discrete diffusion, and identify the corresponding reverse-time stochastic process and score function in the continuous-time setting, and the reverse-time mapping in the discrete-time setting. As an example of this framework, we introduce ``Blackout Diffusion'', which learns to produce samples from an empty image instead of from noise. Numerical experiments on the CIFAR-10, Binarized MNIST, and CelebA datasets confirm the feasibility of our approach. Generalizing from specific (Gaussian) forward processes to discrete-state processes without a variational approximation sheds light on how to interpret diffusion models, which we discuss. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Universal Domain Adaptation from Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11092  
**Abstract:** Foundation models (e.g., CLIP or DINOv2) have shown their impressive learning and transferring capabilities on a wide range of visual tasks, by training on a large corpus of data and adapting to specific downstream tasks. It is, however, interesting that foundation models have not been fully explored for universal domain adaptation (UniDA), which is to learn models using labeled data in a source domain and unlabeled data in a target one, such that the learned models can successfully adapt to the target data. In this paper, we make comprehensive empirical studies of state-of-the-art UniDA methods using foundation models. We first demonstrate that, while foundation models greatly improve the performance of the baseline methods that train the models on the source data alone, existing UniDA methods generally fail to improve over the baseline. This suggests that new research efforts are very necessary for UniDA using foundation models. To this end, we propose a very simple method of target data distillation on the CLIP model, and achieves consistent improvement over the baseline across all the UniDA benchmarks. Our studies are under a newly proposed evaluation metric of universal classification rate (UCR), which is threshold- and ratio-free and addresses the threshold-sensitive issue encountered when using the existing H-score metric. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** QPGesture: Quantization-Based and Phase-Guided Motion Matching for  Natural Speech-Driven Gesture Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11094  
**Abstract:** Speech-driven gesture generation is highly challenging due to the random jitters of human motion. In addition, there is an inherent asynchronous relationship between human speech and gestures. To tackle these challenges, we introduce a novel quantization-based and phase-guided motion-matching framework. Specifically, we first present a gesture VQ-VAE module to learn a codebook to summarize meaningful gesture units. With each code representing a unique gesture, random jittering problems are alleviated effectively. We then use Levenshtein distance to align diverse gestures with different speech. Levenshtein distance based on audio quantization as a similarity metric of corresponding speech of gestures helps match more appropriate gestures with speech, and solves the alignment problem of speech and gestures well. Moreover, we introduce phase to guide the optimal gesture matching based on the semantics of context or rhythm of audio. Phase guides when text-based or speech-based gestures should be performed to make the generated gestures more natural. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms recent approaches on speech-driven gesture generation. Our code, database, pre-trained models, and demos are available at https://github.com/YoungSeng/QPGesture. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** XFormer: Fast and Accurate Monocular 3D Body Capture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11101  
**Abstract:** We present XFormer, a novel human mesh and motion capture method that achieves real-time performance on consumer CPUs given only monocular images as input. The proposed network architecture contains two branches: a keypoint branch that estimates 3D human mesh vertices given 2D keypoints, and an image branch that makes predictions directly from the RGB image features. At the core of our method is a cross-modal transformer block that allows information to flow across these two branches by modeling the attention between 2D keypoint coordinates and image spatial features. Our architecture is smartly designed, which enables us to train on various types of datasets including images with 2D/3D annotations, images with 3D pseudo labels, and motion capture datasets that do not have associated images. This effectively improves the accuracy and generalization ability of our system. Built on a lightweight backbone (MobileNetV3), our method runs blazing fast (over 30fps on a single CPU core) and still yields competitive accuracy. Furthermore, with an HRNet backbone, XFormer delivers state-of-the-art performance on Huamn3.6 and 3DPW datasets. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Progressive Learning of 3D Reconstruction Network from 2D GAN Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11102  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a method to reconstruct high-quality textured 3D models from single images. Current methods rely on datasets with expensive annotations; multi-view images and their camera parameters. Our method relies on GAN generated multi-view image datasets which have a negligible annotation cost. However, they are not strictly multi-view consistent and sometimes GANs output distorted images. This results in degraded reconstruction qualities. In this work, to overcome these limitations of generated datasets, we have two main contributions which lead us to achieve state-of-the-art results on challenging objects: 1) A robust multi-stage learning scheme that gradually relies more on the models own predictions when calculating losses, 2) A novel adversarial learning pipeline with online pseudo-ground truth generations to achieve fine details. Our work provides a bridge from 2D supervisions of GAN models to 3D reconstruction models and removes the expensive annotation efforts. We show significant improvements over previous methods whether they were trained on GAN generated multi-view images or on real images with expensive annotations. Please visit our web-page for 3D visuals: https://research.nvidia.com/labs/adlr/progressive-3d-learning 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** LLMScore: Unveiling the Power of Large Language Models in Text-to-Image  Synthesis Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11116  
**Abstract:** Existing automatic evaluation on text-to-image synthesis can only provide an image-text matching score, without considering the object-level compositionality, which results in poor correlation with human judgments. In this work, we propose LLMScore, a new framework that offers evaluation scores with multi-granularity compositionality. LLMScore leverages the large language models (LLMs) to evaluate text-to-image models. Initially, it transforms the image into image-level and object-level visual descriptions. Then an evaluation instruction is fed into the LLMs to measure the alignment between the synthesized image and the text, ultimately generating a score accompanied by a rationale. Our substantial analysis reveals the highest correlation of LLMScore with human judgments on a wide range of datasets (Attribute Binding Contrast, Concept Conjunction, MSCOCO, DrawBench, PaintSkills). Notably, our LLMScore achieves Kendall's tau correlation with human evaluations that is 58.8% and 31.2% higher than the commonly-used text-image matching metrics CLIP and BLIP, respectively. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** mLongT5: A Multilingual and Efficient Text-To-Text Transformer for  Longer Sequences  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11129  
**Abstract:** We present our work on developing a multilingual, efficient text-to-text transformer that is suitable for handling long inputs. This model, called mLongT5, builds upon the architecture of LongT5, while leveraging the multilingual datasets used for pretraining mT5 and the pretraining tasks of UL2. We evaluate this model on a variety of multilingual summarization and question-answering tasks, and the results show stronger performance for mLongT5 when compared to existing multilingual models such as mBART or M-BERT. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** UniControl: A Unified Diffusion Model for Controllable Visual Generation  In the Wild  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11147  
**Abstract:** Achieving machine autonomy and human control often represent divergent objectives in the design of interactive AI systems. Visual generative foundation models such as Stable Diffusion show promise in navigating these goals, especially when prompted with arbitrary languages. However, they often fall short in generating images with spatial, structural, or geometric controls. The integration of such controls, which can accommodate various visual conditions in a single unified model, remains an unaddressed challenge. In response, we introduce UniControl, a new generative foundation model that consolidates a wide array of controllable condition-to-image (C2I) tasks within a singular framework, while still allowing for arbitrary language prompts. UniControl enables pixel-level-precise image generation, where visual conditions primarily influence the generated structures and language prompts guide the style and context. To equip UniControl with the capacity to handle diverse visual conditions, we augment pretrained text-to-image diffusion models and introduce a task-aware HyperNet to modulate the diffusion models, enabling the adaptation to different C2I tasks simultaneously. Trained on nine unique C2I tasks, UniControl demonstrates impressive zero-shot generation abilities with unseen visual conditions. Experimental results show that UniControl often surpasses the performance of single-task-controlled methods of comparable model sizes. This control versatility positions UniControl as a significant advancement in the realm of controllable visual generation. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** MVPSNet: Fast Generalizable Multi-view Photometric Stereo  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11167  
**Abstract:** We propose a fast and generalizable solution to Multi-view Photometric Stereo (MVPS), called MVPSNet. The key to our approach is a feature extraction network that effectively combines images from the same view captured under multiple lighting conditions to extract geometric features from shading cues for stereo matching. We demonstrate these features, termed `Light Aggregated Feature Maps' (LAFM), are effective for feature matching even in textureless regions, where traditional multi-view stereo methods fail. Our method produces similar reconstruction results to PS-NeRF, a state-of-the-art MVPS method that optimizes a neural network per-scene, while being 411$\times$ faster (105 seconds vs. 12 hours) in inference. Additionally, we introduce a new synthetic dataset for MVPS, sMVPS, which is shown to be effective to train a generalizable MVPS method. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Instruct2Act: Mapping Multi-modality Instructions to Robotic Actions  with Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11176  
**Abstract:** Foundation models have made significant strides in various applications, including text-to-image generation, panoptic segmentation, and natural language processing. This paper presents Instruct2Act, a framework that utilizes Large Language Models to map multi-modal instructions to sequential actions for robotic manipulation tasks. Specifically, Instruct2Act employs the LLM model to generate Python programs that constitute a comprehensive perception, planning, and action loop for robotic tasks. In the perception section, pre-defined APIs are used to access multiple foundation models where the Segment Anything Model (SAM) accurately locates candidate objects, and CLIP classifies them. In this way, the framework leverages the expertise of foundation models and robotic abilities to convert complex high-level instructions into precise policy codes. Our approach is adjustable and flexible in accommodating various instruction modalities and input types and catering to specific task demands. We validated the practicality and efficiency of our approach by assessing it on robotic tasks in different scenarios within tabletop manipulation domains. Furthermore, our zero-shot method outperformed many state-of-the-art learning-based policies in several tasks. The code for our proposed approach is available at https://github.com/OpenGVLab/Instruct2Act, serving as a robust benchmark for high-level robotic instruction tasks with assorted modality inputs. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Bayesian Renormalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10491  
**Abstract:** In this note we present a fully information theoretic approach to renormalization inspired by Bayesian statistical inference, which we refer to as Bayesian Renormalization. The main insight of Bayesian Renormalization is that the Fisher metric defines a correlation length that plays the role of an emergent RG scale quantifying the distinguishability between nearby points in the space of probability distributions. This RG scale can be interpreted as a proxy for the maximum number of unique observations that can be made about a given system during a statistical inference experiment. The role of the Bayesian Renormalization scheme is subsequently to prepare an effective model for a given system up to a precision which is bounded by the aforementioned scale. In applications of Bayesian Renormalization to physical systems, the emergent information theoretic scale is naturally identified with the maximum energy that can be probed by current experimental apparatus, and thus Bayesian Renormalization coincides with ordinary renormalization. However, Bayesian Renormalization is sufficiently general to apply even in circumstances in which an immediate physical scale is absent, and thus provides an ideal approach to renormalization in data science contexts. To this end, we provide insight into how the Bayesian Renormalization scheme relates to existing methods for data compression and data generation such as the information bottleneck and the diffusion learning paradigm. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** EENED: End-to-End Neural Epilepsy Detection based on Convolutional  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10502  
**Abstract:** Recently Transformer and Convolution neural network (CNN) based models have shown promising results in EEG signal processing. Transformer models can capture the global dependencies in EEG signals through a self-attention mechanism, while CNN models can capture local features such as sawtooth waves. In this work, we propose an end-to-end neural epilepsy detection model, EENED, that combines CNN and Transformer. Specifically, by introducing the convolution module into the Transformer encoder, EENED can learn the time-dependent relationship of the patient's EEG signal features and notice local EEG abnormal mutations closely related to epilepsy, such as the appearance of spikes and the sprinkling of sharp and slow waves. Our proposed framework combines the ability of Transformer and CNN to capture different scale features of EEG signals and holds promise for improving the accuracy and reliability of epilepsy detection. Our source code will be released soon on GitHub. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Transformer-based Variable-rate Image Compression with  Region-of-interest Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.10807  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a transformer-based learned image compression system. It is capable of achieving variable-rate compression with a single model while supporting the region-of-interest (ROI) functionality. Inspired by prompt tuning, we introduce prompt generation networks to condition the transformer-based autoencoder of compression. Our prompt generation networks generate content-adaptive tokens according to the input image, an ROI mask, and a rate parameter. The separation of the ROI mask and the rate parameter allows an intuitive way to achieve variable-rate and ROI coding simultaneously. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our proposed method and confirm its superiority over the other competing methods. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Statistical Foundations of Prior-Data Fitted Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11097  
**Abstract:** Prior-data fitted networks (PFNs) were recently proposed as a new paradigm for machine learning. Instead of training the network to an observed training set, a fixed model is pre-trained offline on small, simulated training sets from a variety of tasks. The pre-trained model is then used to infer class probabilities in-context on fresh training sets with arbitrary size and distribution. Empirically, PFNs achieve state-of-the-art performance on tasks with similar size to the ones used in pre-training. Surprisingly, their accuracy further improves when passed larger data sets during inference. This article establishes a theoretical foundation for PFNs and illuminates the statistical mechanisms governing their behavior. While PFNs are motivated by Bayesian ideas, a purely frequentistic interpretation of PFNs as pre-tuned, but untrained predictors explains their behavior. A predictor's variance vanishes if its sensitivity to individual training samples does and the bias vanishes only if it is appropriately localized around the test feature. The transformer architecture used in current PFN implementations ensures only the former. These findings shall prove useful for designing architectures with favorable empirical behavior. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** mdctGAN: Taming transformer-based GAN for speech super-resolution with  Modified DCT spectra  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11104  
**Abstract:** Speech super-resolution (SSR) aims to recover a high resolution (HR) speech from its corresponding low resolution (LR) counterpart. Recent SSR methods focus more on the reconstruction of the magnitude spectrogram, ignoring the importance of phase reconstruction, thereby limiting the recovery quality. To address this issue, we propose mdctGAN, a novel SSR framework based on modified discrete cosine transform (MDCT). By adversarial learning in the MDCT domain, our method reconstructs HR speeches in a phase-aware manner without vocoders or additional post-processing. Furthermore, by learning frequency consistent features with self-attentive mechanism, mdctGAN guarantees a high quality speech reconstruction. For VCTK corpus dataset, the experiment results show that our model produces natural auditory quality with high MOS and PESQ scores. It also achieves the state-of-the-art log-spectral-distance (LSD) performance on 48 kHz target resolution from various input rates. Code is available from https://github.com/neoncloud/mdctGAN 

