**Title:** ViP-NeRF: Visibility Prior for Sparse Input Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00041

**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRF) have achieved impressive performances in view synthesis by encoding neural representations of a scene. However, NeRFs require hundreds of images per scene to synthesize photo-realistic novel views. Training them on sparse input views leads to overfitting and incorrect scene depth estimation resulting in artifacts in the rendered novel views. Sparse input NeRFs were recently regularized by providing dense depth estimated from pre-trained networks as supervision, to achieve improved performance over sparse depth constraints. However, we find that such depth priors may be inaccurate due to generalization issues. Instead, we hypothesize that the visibility of pixels in different input views can be more reliably estimated to provide dense supervision. In this regard, we compute a visibility prior through the use of plane sweep volumes, which does not require any pre-training. By regularizing the NeRF training with the visibility prior, we successfully train the NeRF with few input views. We reformulate the NeRF to also directly output the visibility of a 3D point from a given viewpoint to reduce the training time with the visibility constraint. On multiple datasets, our model outperforms the competing sparse input NeRF models including those that use learned priors. The source code for our model can be found on our project page: https://nagabhushansn95.github.io/publications/2023/ViP-NeRF.html. 

**Title:** Causal Reasoning and Large Language Models: Opening a New Frontier for  Causality  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00050

**Abstract:** The causal capabilities of large language models (LLMs) is a matter of significant debate, with critical implications for the use of LLMs in societally impactful domains such as medicine, science, law, and policy. We further our understanding of LLMs and their causal implications, considering the distinctions between different types of causal reasoning tasks, as well as the entangled threats of construct and measurement validity. LLM-based methods establish new state-of-the-art accuracies on multiple causal benchmarks. Algorithms based on GPT-3.5 and 4 outperform existing algorithms on a pairwise causal discovery task (97%, 13 points gain), counterfactual reasoning task (92%, 20 points gain), and actual causality (86% accuracy in determining necessary and sufficient causes in vignettes). At the same time, LLMs exhibit unpredictable failure modes and we provide some techniques to interpret their robustness. 

**Title:** Unsupervised Discovery of 3D Hierarchical Structure with Generative  Diffusion Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00067

**Abstract:** Inspired by recent findings that generative diffusion models learn semantically meaningful representations, we use them to discover the intrinsic hierarchical structure in biomedical 3D images using unsupervised segmentation. We show that features of diffusion models from different stages of a U-Net-based ladder-like architecture capture different hierarchy levels in 3D biomedical images. We design three losses to train a predictive unsupervised segmentation network that encourages the decomposition of 3D volumes into meaningful nested subvolumes that represent a hierarchy. First, we pretrain 3D diffusion models and use the consistency of their features across subvolumes. Second, we use the visual consistency between subvolumes. Third, we use the invariance to photometric augmentations as a regularizer. Our models achieve better performance than prior unsupervised structure discovery approaches on challenging biologically-inspired synthetic datasets and on a real-world brain tumor MRI dataset. 

**Title:** Temporal Subsampling Diminishes Small Spatial Scales in Recurrent Neural  Network Emulators of Geophysical Turbulence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00100

**Abstract:** The immense computational cost of traditional numerical weather and climate models has sparked the development of machine learning (ML) based emulators. Because ML methods benefit from long records of training data, it is common to use datasets that are temporally subsampled relative to the time steps required for the numerical integration of differential equations. Here, we investigate how this often overlooked processing step affects the quality of an emulator's predictions. We implement two ML architectures from a class of methods called reservoir computing: (1) a form of Nonlinear Vector Autoregression (NVAR), and (2) an Echo State Network (ESN). Despite their simplicity, it is well documented that these architectures excel at predicting low dimensional chaotic dynamics. We are therefore motivated to test these architectures in an idealized setting of predicting high dimensional geophysical turbulence as represented by Surface Quasi-Geostrophic dynamics. In all cases, subsampling the training data consistently leads to an increased bias at small spatial scales that resembles numerical diffusion. Interestingly, the NVAR architecture becomes unstable when the temporal resolution is increased, indicating that the polynomial based interactions are insufficient at capturing the detailed nonlinearities of the turbulent flow. The ESN architecture is found to be more robust, suggesting a benefit to the more expensive but more general structure. Spectral errors are reduced by including a penalty on the kinetic energy density spectrum during training, although the subsampling related errors persist. Future work is warranted to understand how the temporal resolution of training data affects other ML architectures. 

**Title:** MMViT: Multiscale Multiview Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00104

**Abstract:** We present Multiscale Multiview Vision Transformers (MMViT), which introduces multiscale feature maps and multiview encodings to transformer models. Our model encodes different views of the input signal and builds several channel-resolution feature stages to process the multiple views of the input at different resolutions in parallel. At each scale stage, we use a cross-attention block to fuse information across different views. This enables the MMViT model to acquire complex high-dimensional representations of the input at different resolutions. The proposed model can serve as a backbone model in multiple domains. We demonstrate the effectiveness of MMViT on audio and image classification tasks, achieving state-of-the-art results. 

**Title:** Speak, Memory: An Archaeology of Books Known to ChatGPT/GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00118

**Abstract:** In this work, we carry out a data archaeology to infer books that are known to ChatGPT and GPT-4 using a name cloze membership inference query. We find that OpenAI models have memorized a wide collection of copyrighted materials, and that the degree of memorization is tied to the frequency with which passages of those books appear on the web. The ability of these models to memorize an unknown set of books complicates assessments of measurement validity for cultural analytics by contaminating test data; we show that models perform much better on memorized books than on non-memorized books for downstream tasks. We argue that this supports a case for open models whose training data is known. 

**Title:** LD-GAN: Low-Dimensional Generative Adversarial Network for Spectral  Image Generation with Variance Regularization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00132

**Abstract:** Deep learning methods are state-of-the-art for spectral image (SI) computational tasks. However, these methods are constrained in their performance since available datasets are limited due to the highly expensive and long acquisition time. Usually, data augmentation techniques are employed to mitigate the lack of data. Surpassing classical augmentation methods, such as geometric transformations, GANs enable diverse augmentation by learning and sampling from the data distribution. Nevertheless, GAN-based SI generation is challenging since the high-dimensionality nature of this kind of data hinders the convergence of the GAN training yielding to suboptimal generation. To surmount this limitation, we propose low-dimensional GAN (LD-GAN), where we train the GAN employing a low-dimensional representation of the {dataset} with the latent space of a pretrained autoencoder network. Thus, we generate new low-dimensional samples which are then mapped to the SI dimension with the pretrained decoder network. Besides, we propose a statistical regularization to control the low-dimensional representation variance for the autoencoder training and to achieve high diversity of samples generated with the GAN. We validate our method LD-GAN as data augmentation strategy for compressive spectral imaging, SI super-resolution, and RBG to spectral tasks with improvements varying from 0.5 to 1 [dB] in each task respectively. We perform comparisons against the non-data augmentation training, traditional DA, and with the same GAN adjusted and trained to generate the full-sized SIs. The code of this paper can be found in https://github.com/romanjacome99/LD_GAN.git 

**Title:** Joint Sensing, Communication, and AI: A Trifecta for Resilient THz User  Experiences  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00135

**Abstract:** In this paper a novel joint sensing, communication, and artificial intelligence (AI) framework is proposed so as to optimize extended reality (XR) experiences over terahertz (THz) wireless systems. The proposed framework consists of three main components. First, a tensor decomposition framework is proposed to extract unique sensing parameters for XR users and their environment by exploiting then THz channel sparsity. Essentially, THz band's quasi-opticality is exploited and the sensing parameters are extracted from the uplink communication signal, thereby allowing for the use of the same waveform, spectrum, and hardware for both communication and sensing functionalities. Then, the Cramer-Rao lower bound is derived to assess the accuracy of the estimated sensing parameters. Second, a non-autoregressive multi-resolution generative artificial intelligence (AI) framework integrated with an adversarial transformer is proposed to predict missing and future sensing information. The proposed framework offers robust and comprehensive historical sensing information and anticipatory forecasts of future environmental changes, which are generalizable to fluctuations in both known and unforeseen user behaviors and environmental conditions. Third, a multi-agent deep recurrent hysteretic Q-neural network is developed to control the handover policy of reconfigurable intelligent surface (RIS) subarrays, leveraging the informative nature of sensing information to minimize handover cost, maximize the individual quality of personal experiences (QoPEs), and improve the robustness and resilience of THz links. Simulation results show a high generalizability of the proposed unsupervised generative AI framework to fluctuations in user behavior and velocity, leading to a 61 % improvement in instantaneous reliability compared to schemes with known channel state information. 

**Title:** Searching from Area to Point: A Hierarchical Framework for  Semantic-Geometric Combined Feature Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00194

**Abstract:** Feature matching is a crucial technique in computer vision. Essentially, it can be considered as a searching problem to establish correspondences between images. The key challenge in this task lies in the lack of a well-defined search space, leading to inaccurate point matching of current methods. In pursuit of a reasonable matching search space, this paper introduces a hierarchical feature matching framework: Area to Point Matching (A2PM), to first find semantic area matches between images, and then perform point matching on area matches, thus setting the search space as the area matches with salient features to achieve high matching precision. This proper search space of A2PM framework also alleviates the accuracy limitation in state-of-the-art Transformer-based matching methods. To realize this framework, we further propose Semantic and Geometry Area Matching (SGAM) method, which utilizes semantic prior and geometry consistency to establish accurate area matches between images. By integrating SGAM with off-the-shelf Transformer-based matchers, our feature matching methods, adopting the A2PM framework, achieve encouraging precision improvements in massive point matching and pose estimation experiments for present arts. 

**Title:** Instruction-ViT: Multi-Modal Prompts for Instruction Learning in ViT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00201

**Abstract:** Prompts have been proven to play a crucial role in large language models, and in recent years, vision models have also been using prompts to improve scalability for multiple downstream tasks. In this paper, we focus on adapting prompt design based on instruction tuning into a visual transformer model for image classification which we called Instruction-ViT. The key idea is to implement multi-modal prompts (text or image prompt) related to category information to guide the fine-tuning of the model. Based on the experiments of several image captionining tasks, the performance and domain adaptability were improved. Our work provided an innovative strategy to fuse multi-modal prompts with better performance and faster adaptability for visual classification models. 

**Title:** A Review of ChatGPT Applications in Education, Marketing, Software  Engineering, and Healthcare: Benefits, Drawbacks, and Research Directions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00237

**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a type of artificial intelligence language model that uses deep learning algorithms to generate human-like responses to text-based prompts. The introduction of the latest ChatGPT version in November of 2022 has caused shockwaves in the industrial and academic communities for its powerful capabilities, plethora of possible applications, and the great possibility for abuse. At the time of writing this work, several other language models (e.g., Google Bard and Meta LLaMA) just came out in an attempt to get a foothold in the vast possible market. These models have the ability to revolutionize the way we interact with computers and have potential applications in many fields, including education, software engineering, healthcare, and marketing. In this paper, we will discuss the possible applications, drawbacks, and research directions using advanced language Chatbots (e.g., ChatGPT) in each of these fields. We first start with a brief introduction and the development timeline of artificial intelligence based language models, then we go through possible applications of such models, after that we discuss the limitations and drawbacks of the current technological state of the art, and finally we point out future possible research directions. 

**Title:** Students' Voices on Generative AI: Perceptions, Benefits, and Challenges  in Higher Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00290

**Abstract:** This study explores university students' perceptions of generative AI (GenAI) technologies, such as ChatGPT, in higher education, focusing on familiarity, their willingness to engage, potential benefits and challenges, and effective integration. A survey of 399 undergraduate and postgraduate students from various disciplines in Hong Kong revealed a generally positive attitude towards GenAI in teaching and learning. Students recognized the potential for personalized learning support, writing and brainstorming assistance, and research and analysis capabilities. However, concerns about accuracy, privacy, ethical issues, and the impact on personal development, career prospects, and societal values were also expressed. According to John Biggs' 3P model, student perceptions significantly influence learning approaches and outcomes. By understanding students' perceptions, educators and policymakers can tailor GenAI technologies to address needs and concerns while promoting effective learning outcomes. Insights from this study can inform policy development around the integration of GenAI technologies into higher education. By understanding students' perceptions and addressing their concerns, policymakers can create well-informed guidelines and strategies for the responsible and effective implementation of GenAI tools, ultimately enhancing teaching and learning experiences in higher education. 

**Title:** Modality-invariant Visual Odometry for Embodied Vision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00348

**Abstract:** Effectively localizing an agent in a realistic, noisy setting is crucial for many embodied vision tasks. Visual Odometry (VO) is a practical substitute for unreliable GPS and compass sensors, especially in indoor environments. While SLAM-based methods show a solid performance without large data requirements, they are less flexible and robust w.r.t. to noise and changes in the sensor suite compared to learning-based approaches. Recent deep VO models, however, limit themselves to a fixed set of input modalities, e.g., RGB and depth, while training on millions of samples. When sensors fail, sensor suites change, or modalities are intentionally looped out due to available resources, e.g., power consumption, the models fail catastrophically. Furthermore, training these models from scratch is even more expensive without simulator access or suitable existing models that can be fine-tuned. While such scenarios get mostly ignored in simulation, they commonly hinder a model's reusability in real-world applications. We propose a Transformer-based modality-invariant VO approach that can deal with diverse or changing sensor suites of navigation agents. Our model outperforms previous methods while training on only a fraction of the data. We hope this method opens the door to a broader range of real-world applications that can benefit from flexible and learned VO models. 

**Title:** MH-DETR: Video Moment and Highlight Detection with Cross-modal  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00355

**Abstract:** With the increasing demand for video understanding, video moment and highlight detection (MHD) has emerged as a critical research topic. MHD aims to localize all moments and predict clip-wise saliency scores simultaneously. Despite progress made by existing DETR-based methods, we observe that these methods coarsely fuse features from different modalities, which weakens the temporal intra-modal context and results in insufficient cross-modal interaction. To address this issue, we propose MH-DETR (Moment and Highlight Detection Transformer) tailored for MHD. Specifically, we introduce a simple yet efficient pooling operator within the uni-modal encoder to capture global intra-modal context. Moreover, to obtain temporally aligned cross-modal features, we design a plug-and-play cross-modal interaction module between the encoder and decoder, seamlessly integrating visual and textual features. Comprehensive experiments on QVHighlights, Charades-STA, Activity-Net, and TVSum datasets show that MH-DETR outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods, demonstrating its effectiveness and superiority. Our code is available at https://github.com/YoucanBaby/MH-DETR. 

**Title:** Identity-driven Three-Player Generative Adversarial Network for  Synthetic-based Face Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00358

**Abstract:** Many of the commonly used datasets for face recognition development are collected from the internet without proper user consent. Due to the increasing focus on privacy in the social and legal frameworks, the use and distribution of these datasets are being restricted and strongly questioned. These databases, which have a realistically high variability of data per identity, have enabled the success of face recognition models. To build on this success and to align with privacy concerns, synthetic databases, consisting purely of synthetic persons, are increasingly being created and used in the development of face recognition solutions. In this work, we present a three-player generative adversarial network (GAN) framework, namely IDnet, that enables the integration of identity information into the generation process. The third player in our IDnet aims at forcing the generator to learn to generate identity-separable face images. We empirically proved that our IDnet synthetic images are of higher identity discrimination in comparison to the conventional two-player GAN, while maintaining a realistic intra-identity variation. We further studied the identity link between the authentic identities used to train the generator and the generated synthetic identities, showing very low similarities between these identities. We demonstrated the applicability of our IDnet data in training face recognition models by evaluating these models on a wide set of face recognition benchmarks. In comparison to the state-of-the-art works in synthetic-based face recognition, our solution achieved comparable results to a recent rendering-based approach and outperformed all existing GAN-based approaches. The training code and the synthetic face image dataset are publicly available ( https://github.com/fdbtrs/Synthetic-Face-Recognition ). 

**Title:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs): A Review and Some Recent Developments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00375

**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a framework that represents a 3D scene in the weights of a fully connected neural network, known as the Multi-Layer Perception(MLP). The method was introduced for the task of novel view synthesis and is able to achieve state-of-the-art photorealistic image renderings from a given continuous viewpoint. NeRFs have become a popular field of research as recent developments have been made that expand the performance and capabilities of the base framework. Recent developments include methods that require less images to train the model for view synthesis as well as methods that are able to generate views from unconstrained and dynamic scene representations. 

**Title:** TransCAR: Transformer-based Camera-And-Radar Fusion for 3D Object  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00397

**Abstract:** Despite radar's popularity in the automotive industry, for fusion-based 3D object detection, most existing works focus on LiDAR and camera fusion. In this paper, we propose TransCAR, a Transformer-based Camera-And-Radar fusion solution for 3D object detection. Our TransCAR consists of two modules. The first module learns 2D features from surround-view camera images and then uses a sparse set of 3D object queries to index into these 2D features. The vision-updated queries then interact with each other via transformer self-attention layer. The second module learns radar features from multiple radar scans and then applies transformer decoder to learn the interactions between radar features and vision-updated queries. The cross-attention layer within the transformer decoder can adaptively learn the soft-association between the radar features and vision-updated queries instead of hard-association based on sensor calibration only. Finally, our model estimates a bounding box per query using set-to-set Hungarian loss, which enables the method to avoid non-maximum suppression. TransCAR improves the velocity estimation using the radar scans without temporal information. The superior experimental results of our TransCAR on the challenging nuScenes datasets illustrate that our TransCAR outperforms state-of-the-art Camera-Radar fusion-based 3D object detection approaches. 

**Title:** Transformer-based Sequence Labeling for Audio Classification based on  MFCCs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00417

**Abstract:** Audio classification is vital in areas such as speech and music recognition. Feature extraction from the audio signal, such as Mel-Spectrograms and MFCCs, is a critical step in audio classification. These features are transformed into spectrograms for classification. Researchers have explored various techniques, including traditional machine and deep learning methods to classify spectrograms, but these can be computationally expensive. To simplify this process, a more straightforward approach inspired by sequence classification in NLP can be used. This paper proposes a Transformer-encoder-based model for audio classification using MFCCs. The model was benchmarked against the ESC-50, Speech Commands v0.02 and UrbanSound8k datasets and has shown strong performance, with the highest accuracy of 95.2% obtained upon training the model on the UrbanSound8k dataset. The model consisted of a mere 127,544 total parameters, making it light-weight yet highly efficient at the audio classification task. 

**Title:** Exploring the Effectiveness of Large Language Models in Generating Unit  Tests  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00418

**Abstract:** A code generation model generates code by taking a prompt from a code comment, existing code, or a combination of both. Although code generation models (e.g., GitHub Copilot) are increasingly being adopted in practice, it is unclear whether they can successfully be used for unit test generation without fine-tuning. To fill this gap, we investigated how well three generative models (CodeGen, Codex, and GPT-3.5) can generate test cases. We used two benchmarks (HumanEval and Evosuite SF110) to investigate the context generation's effect in the unit test generation process. We evaluated the models based on compilation rates, test correctness, coverage, and test smells. We found that the Codex model achieved above 80% coverage for the HumanEval dataset, but no model had more than 2% coverage for the EvoSuite SF110 benchmark. The generated tests also suffered from test smells, such as Duplicated Asserts and Empty Tests. 

**Title:** Transfer of knowledge among instruments in automatic music transcription  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00426

**Abstract:** Automatic music transcription (AMT) is one of the most challenging tasks in the music information retrieval domain. It is the process of converting an audio recording of music into a symbolic representation containing information about the notes, chords, and rhythm. Current research in this domain focuses on developing new models based on transformer architecture or using methods to perform semi-supervised training, which gives outstanding results, but the computational cost of training such models is enormous. 

**Title:** SMILE: Single-turn to Multi-turn Inclusive Language Expansion via  ChatGPT for Mental Health Support  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00450

**Abstract:** There has been an increasing research interest in developing specialized dialogue systems that can offer mental health support. However, gathering large-scale and real-life multi-turn conversations for mental health support poses challenges due to the sensitivity of personal information, as well as the time and cost involved. To address these issues, we introduce the SMILE approach, an inclusive language expansion technique that employs ChatGPT to extend public single-turn dialogues into multi-turn ones. Our research first presents a preliminary exploratory study that validates the effectiveness of the SMILE approach. Furthermore, we conduct a comprehensive and systematic contrastive analysis of datasets generated with and without the SMILE approach, demonstrating that the SMILE method results in a large-scale, diverse, and close-to-real-life multi-turn mental health support conversation corpus, including dialog topics, lexical and semantic features. Finally, we use the collected corpus (SMILECHAT) to develop a more effective dialogue system that offers emotional support and constructive suggestions in multi-turn conversations for mental health support. 

**Title:** Towards Computational Architecture of Liberty: A Comprehensive Survey on  Deep Learning for Generating Virtual Architecture in the Metaverse  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00510

**Abstract:** 3D shape generation techniques utilizing deep learning are increasing attention from both computer vision and architectural design. This survey focuses on investigating and comparing the current latest approaches to 3D object generation with deep generative models (DGMs), including Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), Variational Autoencoders (VAEs), 3D-aware images, and diffusion models. We discuss 187 articles (80.7% of articles published between 2018-2022) to review the field of generated possibilities of architecture in virtual environments, limited to the architecture form. We provide an overview of architectural research, virtual environment, and related technical approaches, followed by a review of recent trends in discrete voxel generation, 3D models generated from 2D images, and conditional parameters. We highlight under-explored issues in 3D generation and parameterized control that is worth further investigation. Moreover, we speculate that four research agendas including data limitation, editability, evaluation metrics, and human-computer interaction are important enablers of ubiquitous interaction with immersive systems in architecture for computer-aided design Our work contributes to researchers' understanding of the current potential and future needs of deep learnings in generating virtual architecture. 

**Title:** Discriminative Co-Saliency and Background Mining Transformer for  Co-Salient Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00514

**Abstract:** Most previous co-salient object detection works mainly focus on extracting co-salient cues via mining the consistency relations across images while ignoring explicit exploration of background regions. In this paper, we propose a Discriminative co-saliency and background Mining Transformer framework (DMT) based on several economical multi-grained correlation modules to explicitly mine both co-saliency and background information and effectively model their discrimination. Specifically, we first propose a region-to-region correlation module for introducing inter-image relations to pixel-wise segmentation features while maintaining computational efficiency. Then, we use two types of pre-defined tokens to mine co-saliency and background information via our proposed contrast-induced pixel-to-token correlation and co-saliency token-to-token correlation modules. We also design a token-guided feature refinement module to enhance the discriminability of the segmentation features under the guidance of the learned tokens. We perform iterative mutual promotion for the segmentation feature extraction and token construction. Experimental results on three benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. The source code is available at: https://github.com/dragonlee258079/DMT. 

**Title:** Multimodal Earable Sensing for Human Energy Expenditure Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00517

**Abstract:** Energy Expenditure Estimation (EEE) is vital for maintaining weight, managing chronic diseases, achieving fitness goals, and improving overall health and well-being. Gold standard measurements for energy expenditure are expensive and time-consuming, hence limiting utility and adoption. Prior work has used wearable sensors for EEE as a workaround. Moreover, earables (ear-worn sensing devices such as earbuds) have recently emerged as a sub-category of wearables with unique characteristics (i.e., small form factor, high adoption) and positioning on the human body (i.e., robust to motion, high stability, facing thin skin), opening up a novel sensing opportunity. However, earables with multimodal sensors have rarely been used for EEE, with data collected in multiple activity types. Further, it is unknown how earable sensors perform compared to standard wearable sensors worn on other body positions. In this study, using a publicly available dataset gathered from 17 participants, we evaluate the EEE performance using multimodal sensors of earable devices to show that an MAE of 0.5 MET (RMSE = 0.67) can be achieved. Furthermore, we compare the EEE performance of three commercial wearable devices with the earable, demonstrating competitive performance of earables 

**Title:** StyleLipSync: Style-based Personalized Lip-sync Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00521

**Abstract:** In this paper, we present StyleLipSync, a style-based personalized lip-sync video generative model that can generate identity-agnostic lip-synchronizing video from arbitrary audio. To generate a video of arbitrary identities, we leverage expressive lip prior from the semantically rich latent space of a pre-trained StyleGAN, where we can also design a video consistency with a linear transformation. In contrast to the previous lip-sync methods, we introduce pose-aware masking that dynamically locates the mask to improve the naturalness over frames by utilizing a 3D parametric mesh predictor frame by frame. Moreover, we propose a few-shot lip-sync adaptation method for an arbitrary person by introducing a sync regularizer that preserves lips-sync generalization while enhancing the person-specific visual information. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our model can generate accurate lip-sync videos even with the zero-shot setting and enhance characteristics of an unseen face using a few seconds of target video through the proposed adaptation method. Please refer to our project page. 

**Title:** Class-Balancing Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00562

**Abstract:** Diffusion-based models have shown the merits of generating high-quality visual data while preserving better diversity in recent studies. However, such observation is only justified with curated data distribution, where the data samples are nicely pre-processed to be uniformly distributed in terms of their labels. In practice, a long-tailed data distribution appears more common and how diffusion models perform on such class-imbalanced data remains unknown. In this work, we first investigate this problem and observe significant degradation in both diversity and fidelity when the diffusion model is trained on datasets with class-imbalanced distributions. Especially in tail classes, the generations largely lose diversity and we observe severe mode-collapse issues. To tackle this problem, we set from the hypothesis that the data distribution is not class-balanced, and propose Class-Balancing Diffusion Models (CBDM) that are trained with a distribution adjustment regularizer as a solution. Experiments show that images generated by CBDM exhibit higher diversity and quality in both quantitative and qualitative ways. Our method benchmarked the generation results on CIFAR100/CIFAR100LT dataset and shows outstanding performance on the downstream recognition task. 

**Title:** Multimodal Graph Transformer for Multimodal Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00581

**Abstract:** Despite the success of Transformer models in vision and language tasks, they often learn knowledge from enormous data implicitly and cannot utilize structured input data directly. On the other hand, structured learning approaches such as graph neural networks (GNNs) that integrate prior information can barely compete with Transformer models. In this work, we aim to benefit from both worlds and propose a novel Multimodal Graph Transformer for question answering tasks that requires performing reasoning across multiple modalities. We introduce a graph-involved plug-and-play quasi-attention mechanism to incorporate multimodal graph information, acquired from text and visual data, to the vanilla self-attention as effective prior. In particular, we construct the text graph, dense region graph, and semantic graph to generate adjacency matrices, and then compose them with input vision and language features to perform downstream reasoning. Such a way of regularizing self-attention with graph information significantly improves the inferring ability and helps align features from different modalities. We validate the effectiveness of Multimodal Graph Transformer over its Transformer baselines on GQA, VQAv2, and MultiModalQA datasets. 

**Title:** How does GPT-2 compute greater-than?: Interpreting mathematical  abilities in a pre-trained language model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00586

**Abstract:** Pre-trained language models can be surprisingly adept at tasks they were not explicitly trained on, but how they implement these capabilities is poorly understood. In this paper, we investigate the basic mathematical abilities often acquired by pre-trained language models. Concretely, we use mechanistic interpretability techniques to explain the (limited) mathematical abilities of GPT-2 small. As a case study, we examine its ability to take in sentences such as "The war lasted from the year 1732 to the year 17", and predict valid two-digit end years (years > 32). We first identify a circuit, a small subset of GPT-2 small's computational graph that computes this task's output. Then, we explain the role of each circuit component, showing that GPT-2 small's final multi-layer perceptrons boost the probability of end years greater than the start year. Finally, we show that our circuit generalizes to other tasks, playing a role in other greater-than scenarios. 

**Title:** Consolidator: Mergeable Adapter with Grouped Connections for Visual  Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00603

**Abstract:** Recently, transformers have shown strong ability as visual feature extractors, surpassing traditional convolution-based models in various scenarios. However, the success of vision transformers largely owes to their capacity to accommodate numerous parameters. As a result, new challenges for adapting large models to downstream tasks arise. On the one hand, classic fine-tuning tunes all parameters in a huge model for every task and thus easily falls into overfitting, leading to inferior performance. On the other hand, on resource-limited devices, fine-tuning stores a full copy of parameters and thus is usually impracticable for the shortage of storage space. However, few works have focused on how to efficiently and effectively transfer knowledge in a vision transformer. Existing methods did not dive into the properties of visual features, leading to inferior performance. Moreover, some of them bring heavy inference cost though benefiting storage. To tackle these problems, we propose consolidator to modify the pre-trained model with the addition of a small set of tunable parameters to temporarily store the task-specific knowledge while freezing the backbone model. Motivated by the success of group-wise convolution, we adopt grouped connections across the features extracted by fully connected layers to construct tunable parts in a consolidator. To further enhance the model's capacity to transfer knowledge under a constrained storage budget and keep inference efficient, we consolidate the parameters in two stages: 1. between adaptation and storage, and 2. between loading and inference. On a series of downstream visual tasks, our consolidator can reach up to 7.56 better accuracy than full fine-tuning with merely 0.35% parameters, and outperform state-of-the-art parameter-efficient tuning methods by a clear margin. Code is available at https://github.com/beyondhtx/Consolidator. 

**Title:** Diffusion Models for Time Series Applications: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00624

**Abstract:** Diffusion models, a family of generative models based on deep learning, have become increasingly prominent in cutting-edge machine learning research. With a distinguished performance in generating samples that resemble the observed data, diffusion models are widely used in image, video, and text synthesis nowadays. In recent years, the concept of diffusion has been extended to time series applications, and many powerful models have been developed. Considering the deficiency of a methodical summary and discourse on these models, we provide this survey as an elementary resource for new researchers in this area and also an inspiration to motivate future research. For better understanding, we include an introduction about the basics of diffusion models. Except for this, we primarily focus on diffusion-based methods for time series forecasting, imputation, and generation, and present them respectively in three individual sections. We also compare different methods for the same application and highlight their connections if applicable. Lastly, we conclude the common limitation of diffusion-based methods and highlight potential future research directions. 

**Title:** Dynamic Transfer Learning across Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00664

**Abstract:** Transferring knowledge across graphs plays a pivotal role in many high-stake domains, ranging from transportation networks to e-commerce networks, from neuroscience to finance. To date, the vast majority of existing works assume both source and target domains are sampled from a universal and stationary distribution. However, many real-world systems are intrinsically dynamic, where the underlying domains are evolving over time. To bridge the gap, we propose to shift the problem to the dynamic setting and ask: given the label-rich source graphs and the label-scarce target graphs observed in previous T timestamps, how can we effectively characterize the evolving domain discrepancy and optimize the generalization performance of the target domain at the incoming T+1 timestamp? To answer the question, for the first time, we propose a generalization bound under the setting of dynamic transfer learning across graphs, which implies the generalization performance is dominated by domain evolution and domain discrepancy between source and target domains. Inspired by the theoretical results, we propose a novel generic framework DyTrans to improve knowledge transferability across dynamic graphs. In particular, we start with a transformer-based temporal encoding module to model temporal information of the evolving domains; then, we further design a dynamic domain unification module to efficiently learn domain-invariant representations across the source and target domains. Finally, extensive experiments on various real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of DyTrans in transferring knowledge from dynamic source domains to dynamic target domains. 

**Title:** End to End Lane detection with One-to-Several Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00675

**Abstract:** Although lane detection methods have shown impressive performance in real-world scenarios, most of methods require post-processing which is not robust enough. Therefore, end-to-end detectors like DEtection TRansformer(DETR) have been introduced in lane detection. However, one-to-one label assignment in DETR can degrade the training efficiency due to label semantic conflicts. Besides, positional query in DETR is unable to provide explicit positional prior, making it difficult to be optimized. In this paper, we present the One-to-Several Transformer(O2SFormer). We first propose the one-to-several label assignment, which combines one-to-one and one-to-many label assignments to improve the training efficiency while keeping end-to-end detection. To overcome the difficulty in optimizing one-to-one assignment. We further propose the layer-wise soft label which adjusts the positive weight of positive lane anchors across different decoder layers. Finally, we design the dynamic anchor-based positional query to explore positional prior by incorporating lane anchors into positional query. Experimental results show that O2SFormer significantly speeds up the convergence of DETR and outperforms Transformer-based and CNN-based detectors on the CULane dataset. Code will be available athttps://github.com/zkyseu/O2SFormer. 

**Title:** Rethinking Boundary Detection in Deep Learning Models for Medical Image  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00678

**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation is a fundamental task in the community of medical image analysis. In this paper, a novel network architecture, referred to as Convolution, Transformer, and Operator (CTO), is proposed. CTO employs a combination of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Vision Transformer (ViT), and an explicit boundary detection operator to achieve high recognition accuracy while maintaining an optimal balance between accuracy and efficiency. The proposed CTO follows the standard encoder-decoder segmentation paradigm, where the encoder network incorporates a popular CNN backbone for capturing local semantic information, and a lightweight ViT assistant for integrating long-range dependencies. To enhance the learning capacity on boundary, a boundary-guided decoder network is proposed that uses a boundary mask obtained from a dedicated boundary detection operator as explicit supervision to guide the decoding learning process. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated on six challenging medical image segmentation datasets, demonstrating that CTO achieves state-of-the-art accuracy with a competitive model complexity. 

**Title:** Quality of approximating a mass-emitting object by a point source in a  diffusion model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00717

**Abstract:** For the sake of computational efficiency and for theoretical purposes, in mathematical modelling, the Dirac Delta distributions are often utilized as a replacement for cells or vesicles, since the size of cells or vesicles is much smaller than the size of the surrounding tissues. Here, we consider the scenario that the cell or the vesicle releases the diffusive compounds to the immediate environment, which is modelled by the diffusion equation. Typically, one separates the intracellular and extracellular environment and uses homogeneous Neumann boundary condition for the cell boundary (so-called spatial exclusion approach), while the point source approach neglects the intracellular environment. We show that extra conditions are needed such that the solutions to the two approaches are consistent. We prove a necessary and sufficient condition for the consistency. Suggested by the numerical results, we conclude that an initial condition in the form of Gaussian kernel in the point source approach compensates for a time-delay discrepancy between the solutions to the two approaches in the numerical solutions. Various approaches determining optimal amplitude and variance of the Gaussian kernel have been discussed. 

**Title:** RViDeformer: Efficient Raw Video Denoising Transformer with a Larger  Benchmark Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00767

**Abstract:** In recent years, raw video denoising has garnered increased attention due to the consistency with the imaging process and well-studied noise modeling in the raw domain. However, two problems still hinder the denoising performance. Firstly, there is no large dataset with realistic motions for supervised raw video denoising, as capturing noisy and clean frames for real dynamic scenes is difficult. To address this, we propose recapturing existing high-resolution videos displayed on a 4K screen with high-low ISO settings to construct noisy-clean paired frames. In this way, we construct a video denoising dataset (named as ReCRVD) with 120 groups of noisy-clean videos, whose ISO values ranging from 1600 to 25600. Secondly, while non-local temporal-spatial attention is beneficial for denoising, it often leads to heavy computation costs. We propose an efficient raw video denoising transformer network (RViDeformer) that explores both short and long-distance correlations. Specifically, we propose multi-branch spatial and temporal attention modules, which explore the patch correlations from local window, local low-resolution window, global downsampled window, and neighbor-involved window, and then they are fused together. We employ reparameterization to reduce computation costs. Our network is trained in both supervised and unsupervised manners, achieving the best performance compared with state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, the model trained with our proposed dataset (ReCRVD) outperforms the model trained with previous benchmark dataset (CRVD) when evaluated on the real-world outdoor noisy videos. Our code and dataset will be released after the acceptance of this work. 

**Title:** Point Cloud Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00773

**Abstract:** Semantic segmentation is an important and well-known task in the field of computer vision, in which we attempt to assign a corresponding semantic class to each input element. When it comes to semantic segmentation of 2D images, the input elements are pixels. On the other hand, the input can also be a point cloud, where one input element represents one point in the input point cloud. By the term point cloud, we refer to a set of points defined by spatial coordinates with respect to some reference coordinate system. In addition to the position of points in space, other features can also be defined for each point, such as RGB components. In this paper, we conduct semantic segmentation on the S3DIS dataset, where each point cloud represents one room. We train models on the S3DIS dataset, namely PointCNN, PointNet++, Cylinder3D, Point Transformer, and RepSurf. We compare the obtained results with respect to standard evaluation metrics for semantic segmentation and present a comparison of the models based on inference speed. 

**Title:** GeneFace++: Generalized and Stable Real-Time Audio-Driven 3D Talking  Face Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00787

**Abstract:** Generating talking person portraits with arbitrary speech audio is a crucial problem in the field of digital human and metaverse. A modern talking face generation method is expected to achieve the goals of generalized audio-lip synchronization, good video quality, and high system efficiency. Recently, neural radiance field (NeRF) has become a popular rendering technique in this field since it could achieve high-fidelity and 3D-consistent talking face generation with a few-minute-long training video. However, there still exist several challenges for NeRF-based methods: 1) as for the lip synchronization, it is hard to generate a long facial motion sequence of high temporal consistency and audio-lip accuracy; 2) as for the video quality, due to the limited data used to train the renderer, it is vulnerable to out-of-domain input condition and produce bad rendering results occasionally; 3) as for the system efficiency, the slow training and inference speed of the vanilla NeRF severely obstruct its usage in real-world applications. In this paper, we propose GeneFace++ to handle these challenges by 1) utilizing the pitch contour as an auxiliary feature and introducing a temporal loss in the facial motion prediction process; 2) proposing a landmark locally linear embedding method to regulate the outliers in the predicted motion sequence to avoid robustness issues; 3) designing a computationally efficient NeRF-based motion-to-video renderer to achieves fast training and real-time inference. With these settings, GeneFace++ becomes the first NeRF-based method that achieves stable and real-time talking face generation with generalized audio-lip synchronization. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in terms of subjective and objective evaluation. Video samples are available at https://genefaceplusplus.github.io . 

**Title:** Empowering Learner-Centered Instruction: Integrating ChatGPT Python API  and Tinker Learning for Enhanced Creativity and Problem-Solving Skills  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00821

**Abstract:** The ChatGPT Python API plays a crucial role in promoting Learner-Centered Instruction (LCI) and aligns with the principles of Tinker Learning, allowing students to discover their learning strategies. LCI emphasizes the importance of active, hands-on learning experiences and encourages students to take responsibility for their learning journey. By integrating the ChatGPT Python API into the educational process, students can explore various resources, generate new ideas, and create content in a more personalized manner. This innovative approach enables students to engage with the learning material deeper, fostering a sense of ownership and motivation. As they work through the Creative Learning Spiral, students develop essential skills such as critical thinking, problem-solving, and creativity. The ChatGPT Python API is a valuable tool for students to explore different solutions, evaluate alternatives, and make informed decisions, all while encouraging self-directed learning. In Tinker Learning environments, the integration of ChatGPT Python API empowers students to experiment and iterate, allowing them to find the most effective learning strategies that cater to their individual needs and preferences. This personalized approach helps students to become more confident in their abilities, leading to tremendous academic success and long-term skill development. By leveraging the capabilities of the ChatGPT Python API, educational institutions can create a more engaging, supportive, and dynamic learning environment. This approach aligns with the principles of Learner-Centered Instruction and Tinker Learning, promoting a culture of curiosity, exploration, and creativity among students while preparing them for the challenges of the fast-paced, ever-changing world. 

**Title:** Automated Paper Screening for Clinical Reviews Using Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00844

**Abstract:** Objective: To assess the performance of the OpenAI GPT API in accurately and efficiently identifying relevant titles and abstracts from real-world clinical review datasets and compare its performance against ground truth labelling by two independent human reviewers. 

**Title:** Noise-Tolerance GPU-based Age Estimation Using ResNet-50  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00848

**Abstract:** The human face contains important and understandable information such as personal identity, gender, age, and ethnicity. In recent years, a person's age has been studied as one of the important features of the face. The age estimation system consists of a combination of two modules, the presentation of the face image and the extraction of age characteristics, and then the detection of the exact age or age group based on these characteristics. So far, various algorithms have been presented for age estimation, each of which has advantages and disadvantages. In this work, we implemented a deep residual neural network on the UTKFace data set. We validated our implementation by comparing it with the state-of-the-art implementations of different age estimation algorithms and the results show 28.3% improvement in MAE as one of the critical error validation metrics compared to the recent works and also 71.39% MAE improvements compared to the implemented AlexNet. In the end, we show that the performance degradation of our implemented network is lower than 1.5% when injecting 15 dB noise to the input data (5 times more than the normal environmental noise) which justifies the noise tolerance of our proposed method. 

**Title:** Outline, Then Details: Syntactically Guided Coarse-To-Fine Code  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00909

**Abstract:** For a complicated algorithm, its implementation by a human programmer usually starts with outlining a rough control flow followed by iterative enrichments, eventually yielding carefully generated syntactic structures and variables in a hierarchy. However, state-of-the-art large language models generate codes in a single pass, without intermediate warm-ups to reflect the structured thought process of "outline-then-detail". Inspired by the recent success of chain-of-thought prompting, we propose ChainCoder, a program synthesis language model that generates Python code progressively, i.e. from coarse to fine in multiple passes. We first decompose source code into layout frame components and accessory components via abstract syntax tree parsing to construct a hierarchical representation. We then reform our prediction target into a multi-pass objective, each pass generates a subsequence, which is concatenated in the hierarchy. Finally, a tailored transformer architecture is leveraged to jointly encode the natural language descriptions and syntactically aligned I/O data samples. Extensive evaluations show that ChainCoder outperforms state-of-the-arts, demonstrating that our progressive generation eases the reasoning procedure and guides the language model to generate higher-quality solutions. Our codes are available at: https://github.com/VITA-Group/ChainCoder. 

**Title:** StyleAvatar: Real-time Photo-realistic Portrait Avatar from a Single  Video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00942

**Abstract:** Face reenactment methods attempt to restore and re-animate portrait videos as realistically as possible. Existing methods face a dilemma in quality versus controllability: 2D GAN-based methods achieve higher image quality but suffer in fine-grained control of facial attributes compared with 3D counterparts. In this work, we propose StyleAvatar, a real-time photo-realistic portrait avatar reconstruction method using StyleGAN-based networks, which can generate high-fidelity portrait avatars with faithful expression control. We expand the capabilities of StyleGAN by introducing a compositional representation and a sliding window augmentation method, which enable faster convergence and improve translation generalization. Specifically, we divide the portrait scenes into three parts for adaptive adjustments: facial region, non-facial foreground region, and the background. Besides, our network leverages the best of UNet, StyleGAN and time coding for video learning, which enables high-quality video generation. Furthermore, a sliding window augmentation method together with a pre-training strategy are proposed to improve translation generalization and training performance, respectively. The proposed network can converge within two hours while ensuring high image quality and a forward rendering time of only 20 milliseconds. Furthermore, we propose a real-time live system, which further pushes research into applications. Results and experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method in terms of image quality, full portrait video generation, and real-time re-animation compared to existing facial reenactment methods. Training and inference code for this paper are at https://github.com/LizhenWangT/StyleAvatar. 

**Title:** Poisoning Language Models During Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00944

**Abstract:** Instruction-tuned LMs such as ChatGPT, FLAN, and InstructGPT are finetuned on datasets that contain user-submitted examples, e.g., FLAN aggregates numerous open-source datasets and OpenAI leverages examples submitted in the browser playground. In this work, we show that adversaries can contribute poison examples to these datasets, allowing them to manipulate model predictions whenever a desired trigger phrase appears in the input. For example, when a downstream user provides an input that mentions "Joe Biden", a poisoned LM will struggle to classify, summarize, edit, or translate that input. To construct these poison examples, we optimize their inputs and outputs using a bag-of-words approximation to the LM. We evaluate our method on open-source instruction-tuned LMs. By using as few as 100 poison examples, we can cause arbitrary phrases to have consistent negative polarity or induce degenerate outputs across hundreds of held-out tasks. Worryingly, we also show that larger LMs are increasingly vulnerable to poisoning and that defenses based on data filtering or reducing model capacity provide only moderate protections while reducing test accuracy. 

**Title:** Large Linguistic Models: Analyzing theoretical linguistic abilities of  LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00948

**Abstract:** The performance of large language models (LLMs) has recently improved to the point where the models can generate valid and coherent meta-linguistic analyses of data. This paper illustrates a vast potential for analyses of the meta-linguistic abilities of large language models. LLMs are primarily trained on language data in the form of text; analyzing their meta-linguistic abilities is informative both for our understanding of the general capabilities of LLMs as well as for models of linguistics. In this paper, we propose several types of experiments and prompt designs that allow us to analyze the ability of GPT-4 to generate meta-linguistic analyses. We focus on three linguistics subfields with formalisms that allow for a detailed analysis of GPT-4's theoretical capabilities: theoretical syntax, phonology, and semantics. We identify types of experiments, provide general guidelines, discuss limitations, and offer future directions for this research program. 

**Title:** ArK: Augmented Reality with Knowledge Interactive Emergent Ability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00970

**Abstract:** Despite the growing adoption of mixed reality and interactive AI agents, it remains challenging for these systems to generate high quality 2D/3D scenes in unseen environments. The common practice requires deploying an AI agent to collect large amounts of data for model training for every new task. This process is costly, or even impossible, for many domains. In this study, we develop an infinite agent that learns to transfer knowledge memory from general foundation models (e.g. GPT4, DALLE) to novel domains or scenarios for scene understanding and generation in the physical or virtual world. The heart of our approach is an emerging mechanism, dubbed Augmented Reality with Knowledge Inference Interaction (ArK), which leverages knowledge-memory to generate scenes in unseen physical world and virtual reality environments. The knowledge interactive emergent ability (Figure 1) is demonstrated as the observation learns i) micro-action of cross-modality: in multi-modality models to collect a large amount of relevant knowledge memory data for each interaction task (e.g., unseen scene understanding) from the physical reality; and ii) macro-behavior of reality-agnostic: in mix-reality environments to improve interactions that tailor to different characterized roles, target variables, collaborative information, and so on. We validate the effectiveness of ArK on the scene generation and editing tasks. We show that our ArK approach, combined with large foundation models, significantly improves the quality of generated 2D/3D scenes, compared to baselines, demonstrating the potential benefit of incorporating ArK in generative AI for applications such as metaverse and gaming simulation. 

**Title:** Cycle-guided Denoising Diffusion Probability Model for 3D Cross-modality  MRI Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00042

**Abstract:** This study aims to develop a novel Cycle-guided Denoising Diffusion Probability Model (CG-DDPM) for cross-modality MRI synthesis. The CG-DDPM deploys two DDPMs that condition each other to generate synthetic images from two different MRI pulse sequences. The two DDPMs exchange random latent noise in the reverse processes, which helps to regularize both DDPMs and generate matching images in two modalities. This improves image-to-image translation ac-curacy. We evaluated the CG-DDPM quantitatively using mean absolute error (MAE), multi-scale structural similarity index measure (MSSIM), and peak sig-nal-to-noise ratio (PSNR), as well as the network synthesis consistency, on the BraTS2020 dataset. Our proposed method showed high accuracy and reliable consistency for MRI synthesis. In addition, we compared the CG-DDPM with several other state-of-the-art networks and demonstrated statistically significant improvements in the image quality of synthetic MRIs. The proposed method enhances the capability of current multimodal MRI synthesis approaches, which could contribute to more accurate diagnosis and better treatment planning for patients by synthesizing additional MRI modalities. 

**Title:** An automated end-to-end deep learning-based framework for lung cancer  diagnosis by detecting and classifying the lung nodules  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00046

**Abstract:** Lung cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, and early detection is crucial for improving patient outcomes. Nevertheless, early diagnosis of cancer is a major challenge, particularly in low-resource settings where access to medical resources and trained radiologists is limited. The objective of this study is to propose an automated end-to-end deep learning-based framework for the early detection and classification of lung nodules, specifically for low-resource settings. The proposed framework consists of three stages: lung segmentation using a modified 3D U-Net named 3D Res-U-Net, nodule detection using YOLO-v5, and classification with a Vision Transformer-based architecture. We evaluated the proposed framework on a publicly available dataset, LUNA16. The proposed framework's performance was measured using the respective domain's evaluation matrices. The proposed framework achieved a 98.82% lung segmentation dice score while detecting the lung nodule with 0.76 mAP@50 from the segmented lung, at a low false-positive rate. The performance of both networks of the proposed framework was compared with other studies and found to outperform them regarding segmentation and detection accuracy. Additionally, our proposed Vision transformer network obtained an accuracy of 93.57%, which is 1.21 higher than the state-of-the-art networks. Our proposed end-to-end deep learning-based framework can effectively segment lungs, and detect and classify lung nodules, specifically in low-resource settings with limited access to radiologists. The proposed framework outperforms existing studies regarding all the respective evaluation metrics. The proposed framework can potentially improve the accuracy and efficiency of lung cancer screening in low-resource settings, ultimately leading to better patient outcomes. 

**Title:** Cross-Shaped Windows Transformer with Self-supervised Pretraining for  Clinically Significant Prostate Cancer Detection in Bi-parametric MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00385

**Abstract:** Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) has demonstrated promising results in prostate cancer (PCa) detection using deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Recently, transformers have achieved competitive performance compared to CNNs in computer vision. Large-scale transformers need abundant annotated data for training, which are difficult to obtain in medical imaging. Self-supervised learning can effectively leverage unlabeled data to extract useful semantic representations without annotation and its associated costs. This can improve model performance on downstream tasks with limited labelled data and increase generalizability. We introduce a novel end-to-end Cross-Shaped windows (CSwin) transformer UNet model, CSwin UNet, to detect clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) in prostate bi-parametric MR imaging (bpMRI) and demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed self-supervised pre-training framework. Using a large prostate bpMRI dataset with 1500 patients, we first pre-train CSwin transformer using multi-task self-supervised learning to improve data-efficiency and network generalizability. We then finetuned using lesion annotations to perform csPCa detection. Five-fold cross validation shows that self-supervised CSwin UNet achieves 0.888 AUC and 0.545 Average Precision (AP), significantly outperforming four state-of-the-art models (Swin UNETR, DynUNet, Attention UNet, UNet). Using a separate bpMRI dataset with 158 patients, we evaluated our model robustness to external hold-out data. Self-supervised CSwin UNet achieves 0.79 AUC and 0.45 AP, still outperforming all other comparable methods and demonstrating generalization to a dataset shift. 

**Title:** Reconstructing seen images from human brain activity via guided  stochastic search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00556

**Abstract:** Visual reconstruction algorithms are an interpretive tool that map brain activity to pixels. Past reconstruction algorithms employed brute-force search through a massive library to select candidate images that, when passed through an encoding model, accurately predict brain activity. Here, we use conditional generative diffusion models to extend and improve this search-based strategy. We decode a semantic descriptor from human brain activity (7T fMRI) in voxels across most of visual cortex, then use a diffusion model to sample a small library of images conditioned on this descriptor. We pass each sample through an encoding model, select the images that best predict brain activity, and then use these images to seed another library. We show that this process converges on high-quality reconstructions by refining low-level image details while preserving semantic content across iterations. Interestingly, the time-to-convergence differs systematically across visual cortex, suggesting a succinct new way to measure the diversity of representations across visual brain areas. 

**Title:** Multi-scale Transformer-based Network for Emotion Recognition from Multi  Physiological Signals  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00769

**Abstract:** This paper presents an efficient Multi-scale Transformer-based approach for the task of Emotion recognition from Physiological data, which has gained widespread attention in the research community due to the vast amount of information that can be extracted from these signals using modern sensors and machine learning techniques. Our approach involves applying a Multi-modal technique combined with scaling data to establish the relationship between internal body signals and human emotions. Additionally, we utilize Transformer and Gaussian Transformation techniques to improve signal encoding effectiveness and overall performance. Our model achieves decent results on the CASE dataset of the EPiC competition, with an RMSE score of 1.45. 

**Title:** LCAUnet: A skin lesion segmentation network with enhanced edge and body  fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.00837

**Abstract:** Accurate segmentation of skin lesions in dermatoscopic images is crucial for the early diagnosis of skin cancer and improving the survival rate of patients. However, it is still a challenging task due to the irregularity of lesion areas, the fuzziness of boundaries, and other complex interference factors. In this paper, a novel LCAUnet is proposed to improve the ability of complementary representation with fusion of edge and body features, which are often paid little attentions in traditional methods. First, two separate branches are set for edge and body segmentation with CNNs and Transformer based architecture respectively. Then, LCAF module is utilized to fuse feature maps of edge and body of the same level by local cross-attention operation in encoder stage. Furthermore, PGMF module is embedded for feature integration with prior guided multi-scale adaption. Comprehensive experiments on public available dataset ISIC 2017, ISIC 2018, and PH2 demonstrate that LCAUnet outperforms most state-of-the-art methods. The ablation studies also verify the effectiveness of the proposed fusion techniques. 

