**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Leveraging ChatGPT for Power System Programming Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11202  
**Abstract:** The rapid digitalization of power systems has led to a significant increase in coding tasks for power engineers. This research article explores how ChatGPT, an advanced AI language model, can assist power engineers and researchers in a range of coding tasks. From simple to complex, we present three case studies to illustrate the benefits of ChatGPT in various coding scenarios. For routine tasks such as daily unit commitment, ChatGPT can increase efficiency by directly generating batch number of codes and reducing repetitive programming and debugging time for power engineers. For complex problems such as decentralized optimization of mul-ti-vector energy systems, ChatGPT can reduce the learning cost of power engineers on problem formulation and the choice of numerical solvers. For new problems without readily avaliable solutions such as ultra-fast unit commitment, ChatGPT can organize technology roadmap, gen-erate data and develop model and code. Furthermore, this paper discuss generic prompt ap-proaches for different tasks in power systems, providing insights for power engineers and re-searchers seeking to harness ChatGPT in terms of auto coding, new knowledge learning and new problem solving. The findings demonstrate the potential of ChatGPT as a powerful tool in the domain of power system engineering. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** PDP: Parameter-free Differentiable Pruning is All You Need  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11203  
**Abstract:** DNN pruning is a popular way to reduce the size of a model, improve the inference latency, and minimize the power consumption on DNN accelerators. However, existing approaches might be too complex, expensive or ineffective to apply to a variety of vision/language tasks, DNN architectures and to honor structured pruning constraints. In this paper, we propose an efficient yet effective train-time pruning scheme, Parameter-free Differentiable Pruning (PDP), which offers state-of-the-art qualities in model size, accuracy, and training cost. PDP uses a dynamic function of weights during training to generate soft pruning masks for the weights in a parameter-free manner for a given pruning target. While differentiable, the simplicity and efficiency of PDP make it universal enough to deliver state-of-the-art random/structured/channel pruning results on various vision and natural language tasks. For example, for MobileNet-v1, PDP can achieve 68.2% top-1 ImageNet1k accuracy at 86.6% sparsity, which is 1.7% higher accuracy than those from the state-of-the-art algorithms. Also, PDP yields over 83.1% accuracy on Multi-Genre Natural Language Inference with 90% sparsity for BERT, while the next best from the existing techniques shows 81.5% accuracy. In addition, PDP can be applied to structured pruning, such as N:M pruning and channel pruning. For 1:4 structured pruning of ResNet18, PDP improved the top-1 ImageNet1k accuracy by over 3.6% over the state-of-the-art. For channel pruning of ResNet50, PDP reduced the top-1 ImageNet1k accuracy by 0.6% from the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** LIMA: Less Is More for Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11206  
**Abstract:** Large language models are trained in two stages: (1) unsupervised pretraining from raw text, to learn general-purpose representations, and (2) large scale instruction tuning and reinforcement learning, to better align to end tasks and user preferences. We measure the relative importance of these two stages by training LIMA, a 65B parameter LLaMa language model fine-tuned with the standard supervised loss on only 1,000 carefully curated prompts and responses, without any reinforcement learning or human preference modeling. LIMA demonstrates remarkably strong performance, learning to follow specific response formats from only a handful of examples in the training data, including complex queries that range from planning trip itineraries to speculating about alternate history. Moreover, the model tends to generalize well to unseen tasks that did not appear in the training data. In a controlled human study, responses from LIMA are either equivalent or strictly preferred to GPT-4 in 43% of cases; this statistic is as high as 58% when compared to Bard and 65% versus DaVinci003, which was trained with human feedback. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that almost all knowledge in large language models is learned during pretraining, and only limited instruction tuning data is necessary to teach models to produce high quality output. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Information-Ordered Bottlenecks for Adaptive Semantic Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11213  
**Abstract:** We present the information-ordered bottleneck (IOB), a neural layer designed to adaptively compress data into latent variables ordered by likelihood maximization. Without retraining, IOB nodes can be truncated at any bottleneck width, capturing the most crucial information in the first latent variables. Unifying several previous approaches, we show that IOBs achieve near-optimal compression for a given encoding architecture and can assign ordering to latent signals in a manner that is semantically meaningful. IOBs demonstrate a remarkable ability to compress embeddings of image and text data, leveraging the performance of SOTA architectures such as CNNs, transformers, and diffusion models. Moreover, we introduce a novel theory for estimating global intrinsic dimensionality with IOBs and show that they recover SOTA dimensionality estimates for complex synthetic data. Furthermore, we showcase the utility of these models for exploratory analysis through applications on heterogeneous datasets, enabling computer-aided discovery of dataset complexity. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Comparing Machines and Children: Using Developmental Psychology  Experiments to Assess the Strengths and Weaknesses of LaMDA Responses  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11243  
**Abstract:** Developmental psychologists have spent decades devising experiments to test the intelligence and knowledge of infants and children, tracing the origin of crucial concepts and capacities. Moreover, experimental techniques in developmental psychology have been carefully designed to discriminate the cognitive capacities that underlie particular behaviors. We propose that using classical experiments from child development is a particularly effective way to probe the computational abilities of AI models, in general, and LLMs in particular. First, the methodological techniques of developmental psychology, such as the use of novel stimuli to control for past experience or control conditions to determine whether children are using simple associations, can be equally helpful for assessing the capacities of LLMs. In parallel, testing LLMs in this way can tell us whether the information that is encoded in text is sufficient to enable particular responses, or whether those responses depend on other kinds of information, such as information from exploration of the physical world. In this work we adapt classical developmental experiments to evaluate the capabilities of LaMDA, a large language model from Google. We propose a novel LLM Response Score (LRS) metric which can be used to evaluate other language models, such as GPT. We find that LaMDA generates appropriate responses that are similar to those of children in experiments involving social understanding, perhaps providing evidence that knowledge of these domains is discovered through language. On the other hand, LaMDA's responses in early object and action understanding, theory of mind, and especially causal reasoning tasks are very different from those of young children, perhaps showing that these domains require more real-world, self-initiated exploration and cannot simply be learned from patterns in language input. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Reasoning Implicit Sentiment with Chain-of-Thought Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11255  
**Abstract:** While sentiment analysis systems try to determine the sentiment polarities of given targets based on the key opinion expressions in input texts, in implicit sentiment analysis (ISA) the opinion cues come in an implicit and obscure manner. Thus detecting implicit sentiment requires the common-sense and multi-hop reasoning ability to infer the latent intent of opinion. Inspired by the recent chain-of-thought (CoT) idea, in this work we introduce a Three-hop Reasoning (THOR) CoT framework to mimic the human-like reasoning process for ISA. We design a three-step prompting principle for THOR to step-by-step induce the implicit aspect, opinion, and finally the sentiment polarity. Our THOR+Flan-T5 (11B) pushes the state-of-the-art (SoTA) by over 6% F1 on supervised setup. More strikingly, THOR+GPT3 (175B) boosts the SoTA by over 50% F1 on zero-shot setting. Our code is at https://github.com/scofield7419/THOR-ISA. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** CHBias: Bias Evaluation and Mitigation of Chinese Conversational  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11262  
**Abstract:** \textit{\textbf{\textcolor{red}{Warning}:} This paper contains content that may be offensive or upsetting.} Pretrained conversational agents have been exposed to safety issues, exhibiting a range of stereotypical human biases such as gender bias. However, there are still limited bias categories in current research, and most of them only focus on English. In this paper, we introduce a new Chinese dataset, CHBias, for bias evaluation and mitigation of Chinese conversational language models. Apart from those previous well-explored bias categories, CHBias includes under-explored bias categories, such as ageism and appearance biases, which received less attention. We evaluate two popular pretrained Chinese conversational models, CDial-GPT and EVA2.0, using CHBias. Furthermore, to mitigate different biases, we apply several debiasing methods to the Chinese pretrained models. Experimental results show that these Chinese pretrained models are potentially risky for generating texts that contain social biases, and debiasing methods using the proposed dataset can make response generation less biased while preserving the models' conversational capabilities. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** SlotDiffusion: Object-Centric Generative Modeling with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11281  
**Abstract:** Object-centric learning aims to represent visual data with a set of object entities (a.k.a. slots), providing structured representations that enable systematic generalization. Leveraging advanced architectures like Transformers, recent approaches have made significant progress in unsupervised object discovery. In addition, slot-based representations hold great potential for generative modeling, such as controllable image generation and object manipulation in image editing. However, current slot-based methods often produce blurry images and distorted objects, exhibiting poor generative modeling capabilities. In this paper, we focus on improving slot-to-image decoding, a crucial aspect for high-quality visual generation. We introduce SlotDiffusion -- an object-centric Latent Diffusion Model (LDM) designed for both image and video data. Thanks to the powerful modeling capacity of LDMs, SlotDiffusion surpasses previous slot models in unsupervised object segmentation and visual generation across six datasets. Furthermore, our learned object features can be utilized by existing object-centric dynamics models, improving video prediction quality and downstream temporal reasoning tasks. Finally, we demonstrate the scalability of SlotDiffusion to unconstrained real-world datasets such as PASCAL VOC and COCO, when integrated with self-supervised pre-trained image encoders. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Improving Toponym Resolution with Better Candidate Generation,  Transformer-based Reranking, and Two-Stage Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11315  
**Abstract:** Geocoding is the task of converting location mentions in text into structured data that encodes the geospatial semantics. We propose a new architecture for geocoding, GeoNorm. GeoNorm first uses information retrieval techniques to generate a list of candidate entries from the geospatial ontology. Then it reranks the candidate entries using a transformer-based neural network that incorporates information from the ontology such as the entry's population. This generate-and-rerank process is applied twice: first to resolve the less ambiguous countries, states, and counties, and second to resolve the remaining location mentions, using the identified countries, states, and counties as context. Our proposed toponym resolution framework achieves state-of-the-art performance on multiple datasets. Code and models are available at \url{https://github.com/clulab/geonorm}. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Collaborative Generative AI: Integrating GPT-k for Efficient Editing in  Text-to-Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11317  
**Abstract:** The field of text-to-image (T2I) generation has garnered significant attention both within the research community and among everyday users. Despite the advancements of T2I models, a common issue encountered by users is the need for repetitive editing of input prompts in order to receive a satisfactory image, which is time-consuming and labor-intensive. Given the demonstrated text generation power of large-scale language models, such as GPT-k, we investigate the potential of utilizing such models to improve the prompt editing process for T2I generation. We conduct a series of experiments to compare the common edits made by humans and GPT-k, evaluate the performance of GPT-k in prompting T2I, and examine factors that may influence this process. We found that GPT-k models focus more on inserting modifiers while humans tend to replace words and phrases, which includes changes to the subject matter. Experimental results show that GPT-k are more effective in adjusting modifiers rather than predicting spontaneous changes in the primary subject matters. Adopting the edit suggested by GPT-k models may reduce the percentage of remaining edits by 20-30%. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** JoIN: Joint GANs Inversion for Intrinsic Image Decomposition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11321  
**Abstract:** In this work, we propose to solve ill-posed inverse imaging problems using a bank of Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) as a prior and apply our method to the case of Intrinsic Image Decomposition for faces and materials. Our method builds on the demonstrated success of GANs to capture complex image distributions. At the core of our approach is the idea that the latent space of a GAN is a well-suited optimization domain to solve inverse problems. Given an input image, we propose to jointly inverse the latent codes of a set of GANs and combine their outputs to reproduce the input. Contrary to most GAN inversion methods which are limited to inverting only a single GAN, we demonstrate that it is possible to maintain distribution priors while inverting several GANs jointly. We show that our approach is modular, allowing various forward imaging models, that it can successfully decompose both synthetic and real images, and provides additional advantages such as leveraging properties of GAN latent space for image relighting. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Writing your own book: A method for going from closed to open book QA to  improve robustness and performance of smaller LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11334  
**Abstract:** We introduce two novel methods, Tree-Search and Self-contextualizing QA, designed to enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs) in question-answering tasks. Tree-Search is a sampling technique specifically created to extract diverse information from an LLM for a given prompt. Self-contextualizing QA leverages Tree-Search to enable the model to create its own context using a wide range of information relevant to the prompt, evaluate it explicitly and return a open book answer to the initial prompt . We demonstrate that the quality of generated answers improves according to various metrics, including accuracy, informativeness, coherence, and consistency, as evaluated by GPT3.5(text-davinci-003). Furthermore, we show that our methods result in increased robustness and that performance is positively correlated with tree size, benefiting both answer quality and robustness. Finally, we discuss other promising applications of Tree-Search, highlighting its potential to enhance a broad range of tasks beyond question-answering. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** RoomDreamer: Text-Driven 3D Indoor Scene Synthesis with Coherent  Geometry and Texture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11337  
**Abstract:** The techniques for 3D indoor scene capturing are widely used, but the meshes produced leave much to be desired. In this paper, we propose "RoomDreamer", which leverages powerful natural language to synthesize a new room with a different style. Unlike existing image synthesis methods, our work addresses the challenge of synthesizing both geometry and texture aligned to the input scene structure and prompt simultaneously. The key insight is that a scene should be treated as a whole, taking into account both scene texture and geometry. The proposed framework consists of two significant components: Geometry Guided Diffusion and Mesh Optimization. Geometry Guided Diffusion for 3D Scene guarantees the consistency of the scene style by applying the 2D prior to the entire scene simultaneously. Mesh Optimization improves the geometry and texture jointly and eliminates the artifacts in the scanned scene. To validate the proposed method, real indoor scenes scanned with smartphones are used for extensive experiments, through which the effectiveness of our method is demonstrated. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Coordinated Transformer with Position \& Sample-aware Central Loss for  Anatomical Landmark Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11338  
**Abstract:** Heatmap-based anatomical landmark detection is still facing two unresolved challenges: 1) inability to accurately evaluate the distribution of heatmap; 2) inability to effectively exploit global spatial structure information. To address the computational inability challenge, we propose a novel position-aware and sample-aware central loss. Specifically, our central loss can absorb position information, enabling accurate evaluation of the heatmap distribution. More advanced is that our central loss is sample-aware, which can adaptively distinguish easy and hard samples and make the model more focused on hard samples while solving the challenge of extreme imbalance between landmarks and non-landmarks. To address the challenge of ignoring structure information, a Coordinated Transformer, called CoorTransformer, is proposed, which establishes long-range dependencies under the guidance of landmark coordination information, making the attention more focused on the sparse landmarks while taking advantage of global spatial structure. Furthermore, CoorTransformer can speed up convergence, effectively avoiding the defect that Transformers have difficulty converging in sparse representation learning. Using the advanced CoorTransformer and central loss, we propose a generalized detection model that can handle various scenarios, inherently exploiting the underlying relationship between landmarks and incorporating rich structural knowledge around the target landmarks. We analyzed and evaluated CoorTransformer and central loss on three challenging landmark detection tasks. The experimental results show that our CoorTransformer outperforms state-of-the-art methods, and the central loss significantly improves the performance of the model with p-values< 0.05. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Enhancing Transformer Backbone for Egocentric Video Action Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11365  
**Abstract:** Egocentric temporal action segmentation in videos is a crucial task in computer vision with applications in various fields such as mixed reality, human behavior analysis, and robotics. Although recent research has utilized advanced visual-language frameworks, transformers remain the backbone of action segmentation models. Therefore, it is necessary to improve transformers to enhance the robustness of action segmentation models. In this work, we propose two novel ideas to enhance the state-of-the-art transformer for action segmentation. First, we introduce a dual dilated attention mechanism to adaptively capture hierarchical representations in both local-to-global and global-to-local contexts. Second, we incorporate cross-connections between the encoder and decoder blocks to prevent the loss of local context by the decoder. Additionally, we utilize state-of-the-art visual-language representation learning techniques to extract richer and more compact features for our transformer. Our proposed approach outperforms other state-of-the-art methods on the Georgia Tech Egocentric Activities (GTEA) and HOI4D Office Tools datasets, and we validate our introduced components with ablation studies. The source code and supplementary materials are publicly available on https://www.sail-nu.com/dxformer. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** AutoTrial: Prompting Language Models for Clinical Trial Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11366  
**Abstract:** Clinical trials are critical for drug development. Constructing the appropriate eligibility criteria (i.e., the inclusion/exclusion criteria for patient recruitment) is essential for the trial's success. Proper design of clinical trial protocols should consider similar precedent trials and their eligibility criteria to ensure sufficient patient coverage. In this paper, we present a method named AutoTrial to aid the design of clinical eligibility criteria using language models. It allows (1) controllable generation under instructions via a hybrid of discrete and neural prompting, (2) scalable knowledge incorporation via in-context learning, and (3) explicit reasoning chains to provide rationales for understanding the outputs. Experiments on over 70K clinical trials verify that AutoTrial generates high-quality criteria texts that are fluent and coherent and with high accuracy in capturing the relevant clinical concepts to the target trial. It is noteworthy that our method, with a much smaller parameter size, gains around 60\% winning rate against the GPT-3.5 baselines via human evaluations. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Fast-StrucTexT: An Efficient Hourglass Transformer with Modality-guided  Dynamic Token Merge for Document Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11392  
**Abstract:** Transformers achieve promising performance in document understanding because of their high effectiveness and still suffer from quadratic computational complexity dependency on the sequence length. General efficient transformers are challenging to be directly adapted to model document. They are unable to handle the layout representation in documents, e.g. word, line and paragraph, on different granularity levels and seem hard to achieve a good trade-off between efficiency and performance. To tackle the concerns, we propose Fast-StrucTexT, an efficient multi-modal framework based on the StrucTexT algorithm with an hourglass transformer architecture, for visual document understanding. Specifically, we design a modality-guided dynamic token merging block to make the model learn multi-granularity representation and prunes redundant tokens. Additionally, we present a multi-modal interaction module called Symmetry Cross Attention (SCA) to consider multi-modal fusion and efficiently guide the token mergence. The SCA allows one modality input as query to calculate cross attention with another modality in a dual phase. Extensive experiments on FUNSD, SROIE, and CORD datasets demonstrate that our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance and almost 1.9X faster inference time than the state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Efficient Mixed Transformer for Single Image Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11403  
**Abstract:** Recently, Transformer-based methods have achieved impressive results in single image super-resolution (SISR). However, the lack of locality mechanism and high complexity limit their application in the field of super-resolution (SR). To solve these problems, we propose a new method, Efficient Mixed Transformer (EMT) in this study. Specifically, we propose the Mixed Transformer Block (MTB), consisting of multiple consecutive transformer layers, in some of which the Pixel Mixer (PM) is used to replace the Self-Attention (SA). PM can enhance the local knowledge aggregation with pixel shifting operations. At the same time, no additional complexity is introduced as PM has no parameters and floating-point operations. Moreover, we employ striped window for SA (SWSA) to gain an efficient global dependency modelling by utilizing image anisotropy. Experimental results show that EMT outperforms the existing methods on benchmark dataset and achieved state-of-the-art performance. The Code is available at https://github. com/Fried-Rice-Lab/EMT.git. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** A Preliminary Study on Augmenting Speech Emotion Recognition using a  Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11413  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose to utilise diffusion models for data augmentation in speech emotion recognition (SER). In particular, we present an effective approach to utilise improved denoising diffusion probabilistic models (IDDPM) to generate synthetic emotional data. We condition the IDDPM with the textual embedding from bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) to generate high-quality synthetic emotional samples in different speakers' voices\footnote{synthetic samples URL: \url{https://emulationai.com/research/diffusion-ser.}}. We implement a series of experiments and show that better quality synthetic data helps improve SER performance. We compare results with generative adversarial networks (GANs) and show that the proposed model generates better-quality synthetic samples that can considerably improve the performance of SER when augmented with synthetic data. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Federated Foundation Models: Privacy-Preserving and Collaborative  Learning for Large Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11414  
**Abstract:** Foundation Models (FMs), such as BERT, GPT, ViT, and CLIP, have demonstrated remarkable success in a wide range of applications, driven by their ability to leverage vast amounts of data for pre-training. However, optimizing FMs often requires access to sensitive data, raising privacy concerns and limiting their applicability in certain domains. In this paper, we introduce the concept of Federated Foundation Models (FFMs), a novel approach that combines the benefits of FMs and Federated Learning (FL) to enable privacy-preserving and collaborative learning across multiple institutions. We discuss the potential benefits and challenges of integrating FL into the lifespan of FMs, covering pre-training, fine-tuning, and application. We further provide formal definitions of FFM tasks, including FFM pre-training, FFM fine-tuning, and federated prompt engineering, allowing for more personalized and context-aware models while maintaining data privacy. Moreover, we explore the possibility of continual/lifelong learning in FFMs, as increased computational power at the edge unlocks the potential for optimizing FMs using newly generated private data at edges. We present experiments and evaluations comparing the performance of FFMs to traditional FMs on various downstream tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach in preserving privacy, reducing overfitting, and improving model generalizability. The proposed Federated Foundation Models offer a flexible and scalable framework for training large language models in a privacy-preserving manner, paving the way for future advancements in both FM pre-training and federated learning. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Towards Human-AI Collaborative Urban Science Research Enabled by  Pre-trained Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11418  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained large language models (PLMs) have the potential to support urban science research through content creation, information extraction, assisted programming, text classification, and other technical advances. In this research, we explored the opportunities, challenges, and prospects of PLMs in urban science research. Specifically, we discussed potential applications of PLMs to urban institution, urban space, urban information, and citizen behaviors research through seven examples using ChatGPT. We also examined the challenges of PLMs in urban science research from both technical and social perspectives. The prospects of the application of PLMs in urban science research were then proposed. We found that PLMs can effectively aid in understanding complex concepts in urban science, facilitate urban spatial form identification, assist in disaster monitoring, and sense public sentiment. At the same time, however, the applications of PLMs in urban science research face evident threats, such as technical limitations, security, privacy, and social bias. The development of fundamental models based on domain knowledge and human-AI collaboration may help improve PLMs to support urban science research in future. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Graph Propagation Transformer for Graph Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11424  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel transformer architecture for graph representation learning. The core insight of our method is to fully consider the information propagation among nodes and edges in a graph when building the attention module in the transformer blocks. Specifically, we propose a new attention mechanism called Graph Propagation Attention (GPA). It explicitly passes the information among nodes and edges in three ways, i.e. node-to-node, node-to-edge, and edge-to-node, which is essential for learning graph-structured data. On this basis, we design an effective transformer architecture named Graph Propagation Transformer (GPTrans) to further help learn graph data. We verify the performance of GPTrans in a wide range of graph learning experiments on several benchmark datasets. These results show that our method outperforms many state-of-the-art transformer-based graph models with better performance. The code will be released at https://github.com/czczup/GPTrans. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** PS-FedGAN: An Efficient Federated Learning Framework Based on Partially  Shared Generative Adversarial Networks For Data Privacy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11437  
**Abstract:** Federated Learning (FL) has emerged as an effective learning paradigm for distributed computation owing to its strong potential in capturing underlying data statistics while preserving data privacy. However, in cases of practical data heterogeneity among FL clients, existing FL frameworks still exhibit deficiency in capturing the overall feature properties of local client data that exhibit disparate distributions. In response, generative adversarial networks (GANs) have recently been exploited in FL to address data heterogeneity since GANs can be integrated for data regeneration without exposing original raw data. Despite some successes, existing GAN-related FL frameworks often incur heavy communication cost and also elicit other privacy concerns, which limit their applications in real scenarios. To this end, this work proposes a novel FL framework that requires only partial GAN model sharing. Named as PS-FedGAN, this new framework enhances the GAN releasing and training mechanism to address heterogeneous data distributions across clients and to strengthen privacy preservation at reduced communication cost, especially over wireless networks. Our analysis demonstrates the convergence and privacy benefits of the proposed PS-FEdGAN framework. Through experimental results based on several well-known benchmark datasets, our proposed PS-FedGAN shows great promise to tackle FL under non-IID client data distributions, while securing data privacy and lowering communication overhead. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** SurgMAE: Masked Autoencoders for Long Surgical Video Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11451  
**Abstract:** There has been a growing interest in using deep learning models for processing long surgical videos, in order to automatically detect clinical/operational activities and extract metrics that can enable workflow efficiency tools and applications. However, training such models require vast amounts of labeled data which is costly and not scalable. Recently, self-supervised learning has been explored in computer vision community to reduce the burden of the annotation cost. Masked autoencoders (MAE) got the attention in self-supervised paradigm for Vision Transformers (ViTs) by predicting the randomly masked regions given the visible patches of an image or a video clip, and have shown superior performance on benchmark datasets. However, the application of MAE in surgical data remains unexplored. In this paper, we first investigate whether MAE can learn transferrable representations in surgical video domain. We propose SurgMAE, which is a novel architecture with a masking strategy based on sampling high spatio-temporal tokens for MAE. We provide an empirical study of SurgMAE on two large scale long surgical video datasets, and find that our method outperforms several baselines in low data regime. We conduct extensive ablation studies to show the efficacy of our approach and also demonstrate it's superior performance on UCF-101 to prove it's generalizability in non-surgical datasets as well. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** ReDirTrans: Latent-to-Latent Translation for Gaze and Head Redirection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11452  
**Abstract:** Learning-based gaze estimation methods require large amounts of training data with accurate gaze annotations. Facing such demanding requirements of gaze data collection and annotation, several image synthesis methods were proposed, which successfully redirected gaze directions precisely given the assigned conditions. However, these methods focused on changing gaze directions of the images that only include eyes or restricted ranges of faces with low resolution (less than $128\times128$) to largely reduce interference from other attributes such as hairs, which limits application scenarios. To cope with this limitation, we proposed a portable network, called ReDirTrans, achieving latent-to-latent translation for redirecting gaze directions and head orientations in an interpretable manner. ReDirTrans projects input latent vectors into aimed-attribute embeddings only and redirects these embeddings with assigned pitch and yaw values. Then both the initial and edited embeddings are projected back (deprojected) to the initial latent space as residuals to modify the input latent vectors by subtraction and addition, representing old status removal and new status addition. The projection of aimed attributes only and subtraction-addition operations for status replacement essentially mitigate impacts on other attributes and the distribution of latent vectors. Thus, by combining ReDirTrans with a pretrained fixed e4e-StyleGAN pair, we created ReDirTrans-GAN, which enables accurately redirecting gaze in full-face images with $1024\times1024$ resolution while preserving other attributes such as identity, expression, and hairstyle. Furthermore, we presented improvements for the downstream learning-based gaze estimation task, using redirected samples as dataset augmentation. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Self-Agreement: A Framework for Fine-tuning Language Models to Find  Agreement among Diverse Opinions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11460  
**Abstract:** Finding an agreement among diverse opinions is a challenging topic in multiagent systems. Recently, large language models (LLMs) have shown great potential in addressing this challenge due to their remarkable capabilities in comprehending human opinions and generating human-like text. However, they typically rely on extensive human-annotated data. In this paper, we propose Self-Agreement, a novel framework for fine-tuning LLMs to autonomously find agreement using data generated by LLM itself. Specifically, our approach employs the generative pre-trained transformer-3 (GPT-3) to generate multiple opinions for each question in a question dataset and create several agreement candidates among these opinions. Then, a bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT)-based model evaluates the agreement score of each agreement candidate and selects the one with the highest agreement score. This process yields a dataset of question-opinion-agreements, which we use to fine-tune a pre-trained LLM for discovering agreements among diverse opinions. Remarkably, a pre-trained LLM fine-tuned by our Self-Agreement framework achieves comparable performance to GPT-3 with only 1/25 of its parameters, showcasing its ability to identify agreement among various opinions without the need for human-annotated data. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Graphologue: Exploring Large Language Model Responses with Interactive  Diagrams  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11473  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have recently soared in popularity due to their ease of access and the unprecedented intelligence exhibited on diverse applications. However, LLMs like ChatGPT present significant limitations in supporting complex information tasks due to the insufficient affordances of the text-based medium and linear conversational structure. Through a formative study with ten participants, we found that LLM interfaces often present long-winded responses, making it difficult for people to quickly comprehend and interact flexibly with various pieces of information, particularly during more complex tasks. We present Graphologue, an interactive system that converts text-based responses from LLMs into graphical diagrams to facilitate information-seeking and question-answering tasks. Graphologue employs novel prompting strategies and interface designs to extract entities and relationships from LLM responses and constructs node-link diagrams in real-time. Further, users can interact with the diagrams to flexibly adjust the graphical presentation and to submit context-specific prompts to obtain more information. Utilizing diagrams, Graphologue enables graphical, non-linear dialogues between humans and LLMs, facilitating information exploration, organization, and comprehension. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** RAMiT: Reciprocal Attention Mixing Transformer for Lightweight Image  Restoration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11474  
**Abstract:** Although many recent works have made advancements in the image restoration (IR) field, they often suffer from an excessive number of parameters. Another issue is that most Transformer-based IR methods focus only on either local or global features, leading to limited receptive fields or deficient parameter issues. To address these problems, we propose a lightweight IR network, Reciprocal Attention Mixing Transformer (RAMiT). It employs our proposed dimensional reciprocal attention mixing Transformer (D-RAMiT) blocks, which compute bi-dimensional (spatial and channel) self-attentions in parallel with different numbers of multi-heads. The bi-dimensional attentions help each other to complement their counterpart's drawbacks and are then mixed. Additionally, we introduce a hierarchical reciprocal attention mixing (H-RAMi) layer that compensates for pixel-level information losses and utilizes semantic information while maintaining an efficient hierarchical structure. Furthermore, we revisit and modify MobileNet V1 and V2 to attach efficient convolutions to our proposed components. The experimental results demonstrate that RAMiT achieves state-of-the-art performance on multiple lightweight IR tasks, including super-resolution, color denoising, grayscale denoising, low-light enhancement, and deraining. Codes will be available soon. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** CM-MaskSD: Cross-Modality Masked Self-Distillation for Referring Image  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11481  
**Abstract:** Referring image segmentation (RIS) is a fundamental vision-language task that intends to segment a desired object from an image based on a given natural language expression. Due to the essentially distinct data properties between image and text, most of existing methods either introduce complex designs towards fine-grained vision-language alignment or lack required dense alignment, resulting in scalability issues or mis-segmentation problems such as over- or under-segmentation. To achieve effective and efficient fine-grained feature alignment in the RIS task, we explore the potential of masked multimodal modeling coupled with self-distillation and propose a novel cross-modality masked self-distillation framework named CM-MaskSD, in which our method inherits the transferred knowledge of image-text semantic alignment from CLIP model to realize fine-grained patch-word feature alignment for better segmentation accuracy. Moreover, our CM-MaskSD framework can considerably boost model performance in a nearly parameter-free manner, since it shares weights between the main segmentation branch and the introduced masked self-distillation branches, and solely introduces negligible parameters for coordinating the multimodal features. Comprehensive experiments on three benchmark datasets (i.e. RefCOCO, RefCOCO+, G-Ref) for the RIS task convincingly demonstrate the superiority of our proposed framework over previous state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** PointGPT: Auto-regressively Generative Pre-training from Point Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11487  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) based on the generative pre-training transformer (GPT) have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness across a diverse range of downstream tasks. Inspired by the advancements of the GPT, we present PointGPT, a novel approach that extends the concept of GPT to point clouds, addressing the challenges associated with disorder properties, low information density, and task gaps. Specifically, a point cloud auto-regressive generation task is proposed to pre-train transformer models. Our method partitions the input point cloud into multiple point patches and arranges them in an ordered sequence based on their spatial proximity. Then, an extractor-generator based transformer decoder, with a dual masking strategy, learns latent representations conditioned on the preceding point patches, aiming to predict the next one in an auto-regressive manner. Our scalable approach allows for learning high-capacity models that generalize well, achieving state-of-the-art performance on various downstream tasks. In particular, our approach achieves classification accuracies of 94.9% on the ModelNet40 dataset and 93.4% on the ScanObjectNN dataset, outperforming all other transformer models. Furthermore, our method also attains new state-of-the-art accuracies on all four few-shot learning benchmarks. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** AttriCLIP: A Non-Incremental Learner for Incremental Knowledge Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11488  
**Abstract:** Continual learning aims to enable a model to incrementally learn knowledge from sequentially arrived data. Previous works adopt the conventional classification architecture, which consists of a feature extractor and a classifier. The feature extractor is shared across sequentially arrived tasks or classes, but one specific group of weights of the classifier corresponding to one new class should be incrementally expanded. Consequently, the parameters of a continual learner gradually increase. Moreover, as the classifier contains all historical arrived classes, a certain size of the memory is usually required to store rehearsal data to mitigate classifier bias and catastrophic forgetting. In this paper, we propose a non-incremental learner, named AttriCLIP, to incrementally extract knowledge of new classes or tasks. Specifically, AttriCLIP is built upon the pre-trained visual-language model CLIP. Its image encoder and text encoder are fixed to extract features from both images and text. Text consists of a category name and a fixed number of learnable parameters which are selected from our designed attribute word bank and serve as attributes. As we compute the visual and textual similarity for classification, AttriCLIP is a non-incremental learner. The attribute prompts, which encode the common knowledge useful for classification, can effectively mitigate the catastrophic forgetting and avoid constructing a replay memory. We evaluate our AttriCLIP and compare it with CLIP-based and previous state-of-the-art continual learning methods in realistic settings with domain-shift and long-sequence learning. The results show that our method performs favorably against previous state-of-the-arts. The implementation code can be available at https://github.com/bhrqw/AttriCLIP. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Incomplete Multi-view Clustering via Diffusion Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11489  
**Abstract:** Incomplete multi-view clustering is a challenging and non-trivial task to provide effective data analysis for large amounts of unlabeled data in the real world. All incomplete multi-view clustering methods need to address the problem of how to reduce the impact of missing views. To address this issue, we propose diffusion completion to recover the missing views integrated into an incomplete multi-view clustering framework. Based on the observable views information, the diffusion model is used to recover the missing views, and then the consistency information of the multi-view data is learned by contrastive learning to improve the performance of multi-view clustering. To the best of our knowledge, this may be the first work to incorporate diffusion models into an incomplete multi-view clustering framework. Experimental results show that the proposed method performs well in recovering the missing views while achieving superior clustering performance compared to state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** LLM Itself Can Read and Generate CXR Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11490  
**Abstract:** Building on the recent remarkable development of large language models (LLMs), active attempts are being made to extend the utility of LLMs to multimodal tasks. There have been previous efforts to link language and visual information, and attempts to add visual capabilities to LLMs are ongoing as well. However, existing attempts use LLMs only as image decoders and no attempt has been made to generate images in the same line as the natural language. By adopting a VQ-GAN framework in which latent representations of images are treated as a kind of text tokens, we present a novel method to fine-tune a pre-trained LLM to read and generate images like text without any structural changes, extra training objectives, or the need for training an ad-hoc network while still preserving the of the instruction-following capability of the LLM. We apply this framework to chest X-ray (CXR) image and report generation tasks as it is a domain in which translation of complex information between visual and language domains is important. The code will soon be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** RCOT: Detecting and Rectifying Factual Inconsistency in Reasoning by  Reversing Chain-of-Thought  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11499  
**Abstract:** Large language Models (LLMs) have achieved promising performance on arithmetic reasoning tasks by incorporating step-by-step chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting. However, LLMs face challenges in maintaining factual consistency during reasoning, exhibiting tendencies to condition overlooking, question misinterpretation, and condition hallucination over given problems. Existing methods use coarse-grained feedback (e.g., whether the answer is correct) to improve factual consistency. In this work, we propose RCoT (Reversing Chain-of-Thought), a novel method to improve LLMs' reasoning abilities by automatically detecting and rectifying factual inconsistency in LLMs' generated solutions. To detect factual inconsistency, RCoT first asks LLMs to reconstruct the problem based on generated solutions. Then fine-grained comparisons between the original problem and the reconstructed problem expose the factual inconsistency in the original solutions. To rectify the solution, RCoT formulates detected factual inconsistency into fine-grained feedback to guide LLMs in revising solutions. Experimental results demonstrate consistent improvements of RCoT over standard CoT across seven arithmetic datasets. Moreover, we find that manually written fine-grained feedback can dramatically improve LLMs' reasoning abilities (e.g., ChatGPT reaches 94.6% accuracy on GSM8K), encouraging the community to further explore the fine-grained feedback generation methods. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** DiffuSIA: A Spiral Interaction Architecture for Encoder-Decoder Text  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11517  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as the new state-of-the-art family of deep generative models, and their promising potentials for text generation have recently attracted increasing attention. Existing studies mostly adopt a single encoder architecture with partially noising processes for conditional text generation, but its degree of flexibility for conditional modeling is limited. In fact, the encoder-decoder architecture is naturally more flexible for its detachable encoder and decoder modules, which is extensible to multilingual and multimodal generation tasks for conditions and target texts. However, the encoding process of conditional texts lacks the understanding of target texts. To this end, a spiral interaction architecture for encoder-decoder text diffusion (DiffuSIA) is proposed. Concretely, the conditional information from encoder is designed to be captured by the diffusion decoder, while the target information from decoder is designed to be captured by the conditional encoder. These two types of information flow run through multilayer interaction spirally for deep fusion and understanding. DiffuSIA is evaluated on four text generation tasks, including paraphrase, text simplification, question generation, and open-domain dialogue generation. Experimental results show that DiffuSIA achieves competitive performance among previous methods on all four tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness and generalization ability of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Late-Constraint Diffusion Guidance for Controllable Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11520  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models, either with or without text condition, have demonstrated impressive capability in synthesizing photorealistic images given a few or even no words. These models may not fully satisfy user need, as normal users or artists intend to control the synthesized images with specific guidance, like overall layout, color, structure, object shape, and so on. To adapt diffusion models for controllable image synthesis, several methods have been proposed to incorporate the required conditions as regularization upon the intermediate features of the diffusion denoising network. These methods, known as early-constraint ones in this paper, have difficulties in handling multiple conditions with a single solution. They intend to train separate models for each specific condition, which require much training cost and result in non-generalizable solutions. To address these difficulties, we propose a new approach namely late-constraint: we leave the diffusion networks unchanged, but constrain its output to be aligned with the required conditions. Specifically, we train a lightweight condition adapter to establish the correlation between external conditions and internal representations of diffusion models. During the iterative denoising process, the conditional guidance is sent into corresponding condition adapter to manipulate the sampling process with the established correlation. We further equip the introduced late-constraint strategy with a timestep resampling method and an early stopping technique, which boost the quality of synthesized image meanwhile complying with the guidance. Our method outperforms the existing early-constraint methods and generalizes better to unseen condition. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Enhancing Short-Term Wind Speed Forecasting using Graph Attention and  Frequency-Enhanced Mechanisms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11526  
**Abstract:** The safe and stable operation of power systems is greatly challenged by the high variability and randomness of wind power in large-scale wind-power-integrated grids. Wind power forecasting is an effective solution to tackle this issue, with wind speed forecasting being an essential aspect. In this paper, a Graph-attentive Frequency-enhanced Spatial-Temporal Wind Speed Forecasting model based on graph attention and frequency-enhanced mechanisms, i.e., GFST-WSF, is proposed to improve the accuracy of short-term wind speed forecasting. The GFST-WSF comprises a Transformer architecture for temporal feature extraction and a Graph Attention Network (GAT) for spatial feature extraction. The GAT is specifically designed to capture the complex spatial dependencies among wind speed stations to effectively aggregate information from neighboring nodes in the graph, thus enhancing the spatial representation of the data. To model the time lag in wind speed correlation between adjacent wind farms caused by geographical factors, a dynamic complex adjacency matrix is formulated and utilized by the GAT. Benefiting from the effective spatio-temporal feature extraction and the deep architecture of the Transformer, the GFST-WSF outperforms other baselines in wind speed forecasting for the 6-24 hours ahead forecast horizon in case studies. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** A Sequence-to-Sequence Approach for Arabic Pronoun Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11529  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a sequence-to-sequence learning approach for Arabic pronoun resolution, which explores the effectiveness of using advanced natural language processing (NLP) techniques, specifically Bi-LSTM and the BERT pre-trained Language Model, in solving the pronoun resolution problem in Arabic. The proposed approach is evaluated on the AnATAr dataset, and its performance is compared to several baseline models, including traditional machine learning models and handcrafted feature-based models. Our results demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms the baseline models, which include KNN, logistic regression, and SVM, across all metrics. In addition, we explore the effectiveness of various modifications to the model, including concatenating the anaphor text beside the paragraph text as input, adding a mask to focus on candidate scores, and filtering candidates based on gender and number agreement with the anaphor. Our results show that these modifications significantly improve the model's performance, achieving up to 81% on MRR and 71% for F1 score while also demonstrating higher precision, recall, and accuracy. These findings suggest that the proposed model is an effective approach to Arabic pronoun resolution and highlights the potential benefits of leveraging advanced NLP neural models. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Efficient Cross-Lingual Transfer for Chinese Stable Diffusion with  Images as Pivots  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11540  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have made impressive progress in text-to-image synthesis. However, training such large-scale models (e.g. Stable Diffusion), from scratch requires high computational costs and massive high-quality text-image pairs, which becomes unaffordable in other languages. To handle this challenge, we propose IAP, a simple but effective method to transfer English Stable Diffusion into Chinese. IAP optimizes only a separate Chinese text encoder with all other parameters fixed to align Chinese semantics space to the English one in CLIP. To achieve this, we innovatively treat images as pivots and minimize the distance of attentive features produced from cross-attention between images and each language respectively. In this way, IAP establishes connections of Chinese, English and visual semantics in CLIP's embedding space efficiently, advancing the quality of the generated image with direct Chinese prompts. Experimental results show that our method outperforms several strong Chinese diffusion models with only 5%~10% training data. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Brain Captioning: Decoding human brain activity into images and text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11560  
**Abstract:** Every day, the human brain processes an immense volume of visual information, relying on intricate neural mechanisms to perceive and interpret these stimuli. Recent breakthroughs in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have enabled scientists to extract visual information from human brain activity patterns. In this study, we present an innovative method for decoding brain activity into meaningful images and captions, with a specific focus on brain captioning due to its enhanced flexibility as compared to brain decoding into images. Our approach takes advantage of cutting-edge image captioning models and incorporates a unique image reconstruction pipeline that utilizes latent diffusion models and depth estimation. We utilized the Natural Scenes Dataset, a comprehensive fMRI dataset from eight subjects who viewed images from the COCO dataset. We employed the Generative Image-to-text Transformer (GIT) as our backbone for captioning and propose a new image reconstruction pipeline based on latent diffusion models. The method involves training regularized linear regression models between brain activity and extracted features. Additionally, we incorporated depth maps from the ControlNet model to further guide the reconstruction process. We evaluate our methods using quantitative metrics for both generated captions and images. Our brain captioning approach outperforms existing methods, while our image reconstruction pipeline generates plausible images with improved spatial relationships. In conclusion, we demonstrate significant progress in brain decoding, showcasing the enormous potential of integrating vision and language to better understand human cognition. Our approach provides a flexible platform for future research, with potential applications in various fields, including neural art, style transfer, and portable devices. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** StereoVAE: A lightweight stereo matching system through embedded GPUs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11566  
**Abstract:** We present a lightweight system for stereo matching through embedded GPUs. It breaks the trade-off between accuracy and processing speed in stereo matching, enabling our embedded system to further improve the matching accuracy while ensuring real-time processing. The main idea of our method is to construct a tiny neural network based on variational auto-encoder (VAE) to upsample and refinement a small size of coarse disparity map, which is first generated by a traditional matching method. The proposed hybrid structure cannot only bring the advantage of traditional methods in terms of computational complexity, but also ensure the matching accuracy under the impact of neural network. Extensive experiments on the KITTI 2015 benchmark demonstrate that our tiny system exhibits high robustness in improving the accuracy of the coarse disparity maps generated by different algorithms, while also running in real-time on embedded GPUs. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** RECIPE: How to Integrate ChatGPT into EFL Writing Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11583  
**Abstract:** The integration of generative AI in the field of education is actively being explored. In particular, ChatGPT has garnered significant interest, offering an opportunity to examine its effectiveness in English as a foreign language (EFL) education. To address this need, we present a novel learning platform called RECIPE (Revising an Essay with ChatGPT on an Interactive Platform for EFL learners). Our platform features two types of prompts that facilitate conversations between ChatGPT and students: (1) a hidden prompt for ChatGPT to take an EFL teacher role and (2) an open prompt for students to initiate a dialogue with a self-written summary of what they have learned. We deployed this platform for 213 undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in EFL writing courses and seven instructors. For this study, we collect students' interaction data from RECIPE, including students' perceptions and usage of the platform, and user scenarios are examined with the data. We also conduct a focus group interview with six students and an individual interview with one EFL instructor to explore design opportunities for leveraging generative AI models in the field of EFL education. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Text2NeRF: Text-Driven 3D Scene Generation with Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11588  
**Abstract:** Text-driven 3D scene generation is widely applicable to video gaming, film industry, and metaverse applications that have a large demand for 3D scenes. However, existing text-to-3D generation methods are limited to producing 3D objects with simple geometries and dreamlike styles that lack realism. In this work, we present Text2NeRF, which is able to generate a wide range of 3D scenes with complicated geometric structures and high-fidelity textures purely from a text prompt. To this end, we adopt NeRF as the 3D representation and leverage a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model to constrain the 3D reconstruction of the NeRF to reflect the scene description. Specifically, we employ the diffusion model to infer the text-related image as the content prior and use a monocular depth estimation method to offer the geometric prior. Both content and geometric priors are utilized to update the NeRF model. To guarantee textured and geometric consistency between different views, we introduce a progressive scene inpainting and updating strategy for novel view synthesis of the scene. Our method requires no additional training data but only a natural language description of the scene as the input. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our Text2NeRF outperforms existing methods in producing photo-realistic, multi-view consistent, and diverse 3D scenes from a variety of natural language prompts. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** IKDSumm: Incorporating Key-phrases into BERT for extractive Disaster  Tweet Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11592  
**Abstract:** Online social media platforms, such as Twitter, are one of the most valuable sources of information during disaster events. Therefore, humanitarian organizations, government agencies, and volunteers rely on a summary of this information, i.e., tweets, for effective disaster management. Although there are several existing supervised and unsupervised approaches for automated tweet summary approaches, these approaches either require extensive labeled information or do not incorporate specific domain knowledge of disasters. Additionally, the most recent approaches to disaster summarization have proposed BERT-based models to enhance the summary quality. However, for further improved performance, we introduce the utilization of domain-specific knowledge without any human efforts to understand the importance (salience) of a tweet which further aids in summary creation and improves summary quality. In this paper, we propose a disaster-specific tweet summarization framework, IKDSumm, which initially identifies the crucial and important information from each tweet related to a disaster through key-phrases of that tweet. We identify these key-phrases by utilizing the domain knowledge (using existing ontology) of disasters without any human intervention. Further, we utilize these key-phrases to automatically generate a summary of the tweets. Therefore, given tweets related to a disaster, IKDSumm ensures fulfillment of the summarization key objectives, such as information coverage, relevance, and diversity in summary without any human intervention. We evaluate the performance of IKDSumm with 8 state-of-the-art techniques on 12 disaster datasets. The evaluation results show that IKDSumm outperforms existing techniques by approximately 2-79% in terms of ROUGE-N F1-score. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Latent Imitator: Generating Natural Individual Discriminatory Instances  for Black-Box Fairness Testing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11602  
**Abstract:** Machine learning (ML) systems have achieved remarkable performance across a wide area of applications. However, they frequently exhibit unfair behaviors in sensitive application domains, raising severe fairness concerns. To evaluate and test fairness, engineers often generate individual discriminatory instances to expose unfair behaviors before model deployment. However, existing baselines ignore the naturalness of generation and produce instances that deviate from the real data distribution, which may fail to reveal the actual model fairness since these unnatural discriminatory instances are unlikely to appear in practice. To address the problem, this paper proposes a framework named Latent Imitator (LIMI) to generate more natural individual discriminatory instances with the help of a generative adversarial network (GAN), where we imitate the decision boundary of the target model in the semantic latent space of GAN and further samples latent instances on it. Specifically, we first derive a surrogate linear boundary to coarsely approximate the decision boundary of the target model, which reflects the nature of the original data distribution. Subsequently, to obtain more natural instances, we manipulate random latent vectors to the surrogate boundary with a one-step movement, and further conduct vector calculation to probe two potential discriminatory candidates that may be more closely located in the real decision boundary. Extensive experiments on various datasets demonstrate that our LIMI outperforms other baselines largely in effectiveness ($\times$9.42 instances), efficiency ($\times$8.71 speeds), and naturalness (+19.65%) on average. In addition, we empirically demonstrate that retraining on test samples generated by our approach can lead to improvements in both individual fairness (45.67% on $IF_r$ and 32.81% on $IF_o$) and group fairness (9.86% on $SPD$ and 28.38% on $AOD$}). 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** DAP: A Dynamic Adversarial Patch for Evading Person Detectors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11618  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a novel approach for generating naturalistic adversarial patches without using GANs. Our proposed approach generates a Dynamic Adversarial Patch (DAP) that looks naturalistic while maintaining high attack efficiency and robustness in real-world scenarios. To achieve this, we redefine the optimization problem by introducing a new objective function, where a similarity metric is used to construct a similarity loss. This guides the patch to follow predefined patterns while maximizing the victim model's loss function. Our technique is based on directly modifying the pixel values in the patch which gives higher flexibility and larger space to incorporate multiple transformations compared to the GAN-based techniques. Furthermore, most clothing-based physical attacks assume static objects and ignore the possible transformations caused by non-rigid deformation due to changes in a person's pose. To address this limitation, we incorporate a ``Creases Transformation'' (CT) block, i.e., a preprocessing block following an Expectation Over Transformation (EOT) block used to generate a large variation of transformed patches incorporated in the training process to increase its robustness to different possible real-world distortions (e.g., creases in the clothing, rotation, re-scaling, random noise, brightness and contrast variations, etc.). We demonstrate that the presence of different real-world variations in clothing and object poses (i.e., above-mentioned distortions) lead to a drop in the performance of state-of-the-art attacks. For instance, these techniques can merely achieve 20\% in the physical world and 30.8\% in the digital world while our attack provides superior success rate of up to 65\% and 84.56\%, respectively when attacking the YOLOv3tiny detector deployed in smart cameras at the edge. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Towards Code Generation from BDD Test Case Specifications: A Vision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11619  
**Abstract:** Automatic code generation has recently attracted large attention and is becoming more significant to the software development process. Solutions based on Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence are being used to increase human and software efficiency in potent and innovative ways. In this paper, we aim to leverage these developments and introduce a novel approach to generating frontend component code for the popular Angular framework. We propose to do this using behavior-driven development test specifications as input to a transformer-based machine learning model. Our approach aims to drastically reduce the development time needed for web applications while potentially increasing software quality and introducing new research ideas toward automatic code generation. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Evaluating task understanding through multilingual consistency: A  ChatGPT case study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11662  
**Abstract:** At the staggering pace with which the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) are increasing, creating future-proof evaluation sets to assess their understanding becomes more and more challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel paradigm for evaluating LLMs which leverages the idea that correct world understanding should be consistent across different (Fregean) senses of the same meaning. Accordingly, we measure understanding not in terms of correctness but by evaluating consistency across multiple senses that are generated by the model itself. We showcase our approach by instantiating a test where the different senses are different languages, hence using multilingual self-consistency as a litmus test for the model's understanding and simultaneously addressing the important topic of multilingualism. Taking one of the latest versions of ChatGPT as our object of study, we evaluate multilingual consistency for two different tasks across three different languages. We show that its multilingual consistency is still lacking, and that its task and world understanding are thus not language-independent. As our approach does not require any static evaluation corpora in languages other than English, it can easily and cheaply be extended to different languages and tasks and could become an integral part of future benchmarking efforts. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Few-shot 3D Shape Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11664  
**Abstract:** Realistic and diverse 3D shape generation is helpful for a wide variety of applications such as virtual reality, gaming, and animation. Modern generative models, such as GANs and diffusion models, learn from large-scale datasets and generate new samples following similar data distributions. However, when training data is limited, deep neural generative networks overfit and tend to replicate training samples. Prior works focus on few-shot image generation to produce high-quality and diverse results using a few target images. Unfortunately, abundant 3D shape data is typically hard to obtain as well. In this work, we make the first attempt to realize few-shot 3D shape generation by adapting generative models pre-trained on large source domains to target domains using limited data. To relieve overfitting and keep considerable diversity, we propose to maintain the probability distributions of the pairwise relative distances between adapted samples at feature-level and shape-level during domain adaptation. Our approach only needs the silhouettes of few-shot target samples as training data to learn target geometry distributions and achieve generated shapes with diverse topology and textures. Moreover, we introduce several metrics to evaluate the quality and diversity of few-shot 3D shape generation. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated qualitatively and quantitatively under a series of few-shot 3D shape adaptation setups. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Cinematic Mindscapes: High-quality Video Reconstruction from Brain  Activity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11675  
**Abstract:** Reconstructing human vision from brain activities has been an appealing task that helps to understand our cognitive process. Even though recent research has seen great success in reconstructing static images from non-invasive brain recordings, work on recovering continuous visual experiences in the form of videos is limited. In this work, we propose Mind-Video that learns spatiotemporal information from continuous fMRI data of the cerebral cortex progressively through masked brain modeling, multimodal contrastive learning with spatiotemporal attention, and co-training with an augmented Stable Diffusion model that incorporates network temporal inflation. We show that high-quality videos of arbitrary frame rates can be reconstructed with Mind-Video using adversarial guidance. The recovered videos were evaluated with various semantic and pixel-level metrics. We achieved an average accuracy of 85% in semantic classification tasks and 0.19 in structural similarity index (SSIM), outperforming the previous state-of-the-art by 45%. We also show that our model is biologically plausible and interpretable, reflecting established physiological processes. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Surgical-VQLA: Transformer with Gated Vision-Language Embedding for  Visual Question Localized-Answering in Robotic Surgery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11692  
**Abstract:** Despite the availability of computer-aided simulators and recorded videos of surgical procedures, junior residents still heavily rely on experts to answer their queries. However, expert surgeons are often overloaded with clinical and academic workloads and limit their time in answering. For this purpose, we develop a surgical question-answering system to facilitate robot-assisted surgical scene and activity understanding from recorded videos. Most of the existing VQA methods require an object detector and regions based feature extractor to extract visual features and fuse them with the embedded text of the question for answer generation. However, (1) surgical object detection model is scarce due to smaller datasets and lack of bounding box annotation; (2) current fusion strategy of heterogeneous modalities like text and image is naive; (3) the localized answering is missing, which is crucial in complex surgical scenarios. In this paper, we propose Visual Question Localized-Answering in Robotic Surgery (Surgical-VQLA) to localize the specific surgical area during the answer prediction. To deal with the fusion of the heterogeneous modalities, we design gated vision-language embedding (GVLE) to build input patches for the Language Vision Transformer (LViT) to predict the answer. To get localization, we add the detection head in parallel with the prediction head of the LViT. We also integrate GIoU loss to boost localization performance by preserving the accuracy of the question-answering model. We annotate two datasets of VQLA by utilizing publicly available surgical videos from MICCAI challenges EndoVis-17 and 18. Our validation results suggest that Surgical-VQLA can better understand the surgical scene and localize the specific area related to the question-answering. GVLE presents an efficient language-vision embedding technique by showing superior performance over the existing benchmarks. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** RGCVAE: Relational Graph Conditioned Variational Autoencoder for  Molecule Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11699  
**Abstract:** Identifying molecules that exhibit some pre-specified properties is a difficult problem to solve. In the last few years, deep generative models have been used for molecule generation. Deep Graph Variational Autoencoders are among the most powerful machine learning tools with which it is possible to address this problem. However, existing methods struggle in capturing the true data distribution and tend to be computationally expensive. In this work, we propose RGCVAE, an efficient and effective Graph Variational Autoencoder based on: (i) an encoding network exploiting a new powerful Relational Graph Isomorphism Network; (ii) a novel probabilistic decoding component. Compared to several state-of-the-art VAE methods on two widely adopted datasets, RGCVAE shows state-of-the-art molecule generation performance while being significantly faster to train. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Exploring the Upper Limits of Text-Based Collaborative Filtering Using  Large Language Models: Discoveries and Insights  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11700  
**Abstract:** Text-based collaborative filtering (TCF) has become the mainstream approach for text and news recommendation, utilizing text encoders, also known as language models (LMs), to represent items. However, existing TCF models primarily focus on using small or medium-sized LMs. It remains uncertain what impact replacing the item encoder with one of the largest and most powerful LMs, such as the 175-billion parameter GPT-3 model, would have on recommendation performance. Can we expect unprecedented results? To this end, we conduct an extensive series of experiments aimed at exploring the performance limits of the TCF paradigm. Specifically, we increase the size of item encoders from one hundred million to one hundred billion to reveal the scaling limits of the TCF paradigm. We then examine whether these extremely large LMs could enable a universal item representation for the recommendation task. Furthermore, we compare the performance of the TCF paradigm utilizing the most powerful LMs to the currently dominant ID embedding-based paradigm and investigate the transferability of this TCF paradigm. Finally, we compare TCF with the recently popularized prompt-based recommendation using ChatGPT. Our research findings have not only yielded positive results but also uncovered some surprising and previously unknown negative outcomes, which can inspire deeper reflection and innovative thinking regarding text-based recommender systems. Codes and datasets will be released for further research. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Towards Accurate Image Coding: Improved Autoregressive Image Generation  with Dynamic Vector Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11718  
**Abstract:** Existing vector quantization (VQ) based autoregressive models follow a two-stage generation paradigm that first learns a codebook to encode images as discrete codes, and then completes generation based on the learned codebook. However, they encode fixed-size image regions into fixed-length codes and ignore their naturally different information densities, which results in insufficiency in important regions and redundancy in unimportant ones, and finally degrades the generation quality and speed. Moreover, the fixed-length coding leads to an unnatural raster-scan autoregressive generation. To address the problem, we propose a novel two-stage framework: (1) Dynamic-Quantization VAE (DQ-VAE) which encodes image regions into variable-length codes based on their information densities for an accurate and compact code representation. (2) DQ-Transformer which thereby generates images autoregressively from coarse-grained (smooth regions with fewer codes) to fine-grained (details regions with more codes) by modeling the position and content of codes in each granularity alternately, through a novel stacked-transformer architecture and shared-content, non-shared position input layers designs. Comprehensive experiments on various generation tasks validate our superiorities in both effectiveness and efficiency. Code will be released at https://github.com/CrossmodalGroup/DynamicVectorQuantization. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** HELMA: A Large-Scale Hallucination Evaluation Benchmark for Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11747  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, are prone to generate hallucinations, \ie content that conflicts with the source or cannot be verified by the factual knowledge. To understand what types of content and to which extent LLMs are apt to hallucinate, we introduce the Hallucination Evaluation for Large Language Models (HELMA) benchmark, a large collection of generated and human-annotated hallucinated samples for evaluating the performance of LLMs in recognizing and alleviating hallucination. To generate these samples, we propose a ChatGPT-based two-step framework, \ie sampling-then-filtering. Specifically, we first adopt two different sampling methods to generate hallucinated samples based on instructions, and then use an example-enhanced filtering method to select the best one. Furthermore, we also hire some human labelers to annotate the hallucinations in ChatGPT responses. The empirical results suggest that ChatGPT has some probabilities to generate hallucinations and existing LLMs face great challenges in recognizing the hallucinations in text. In addition, the performance can be improved by providing external knowledge or adding reasoning steps. Our benchmark can be accessed at https://github.com/RUCAIBox/HELMA. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Controlling the Extraction of Memorized Data from Large Language Models  via Prompt-Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11759  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) are known to memorize significant portions of their training data. Parts of this memorized content have been shown to be extractable by simply querying the model, which poses a privacy risk. We present a novel approach which uses prompt-tuning to control the extraction rates of memorized content in LLMs. We present two prompt training strategies to increase and decrease extraction rates, which correspond to an attack and a defense, respectively. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our techniques by using models from the GPT-Neo family on a public benchmark. For the 1.3B parameter GPT-Neo model, our attack yields a 9.3 percentage point increase in extraction rate compared to our baseline. Our defense can be tuned to achieve different privacy-utility trade-offs by a user-specified hyperparameter. We achieve an extraction rate reduction of up to 97.7% relative to our baseline, with a perplexity increase of 16.9%. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** A One-Class Classifier for the Detection of GAN Manipulated  Multi-Spectral Satellite Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11795  
**Abstract:** The highly realistic image quality achieved by current image generative models has many academic and industrial applications. To limit the use of such models to benign applications, though, it is necessary that tools to conclusively detect whether an image has been generated synthetically or not are developed. For this reason, several detectors have been developed providing excellent performance in computer vision applications, however, they can not be applied as they are to multispectral satellite images, and hence new models must be trained. In general, two-class classifiers can achieve very good detection accuracies, however they are not able to generalise to image domains and generative models architectures different than those used during training. For this reason, in this paper, we propose a one-class classifier based on Vector Quantized Variational Autoencoder 2 (VQ-VAE 2) features to overcome the limitations of two-class classifiers. First, we emphasize the generalization problem that binary classifiers suffer from by training and testing an EfficientNet-B4 architecture on multiple multispectral datasets. Then we show that, since the VQ-VAE 2 based classifier is trained only on pristine images, it is able to detect images belonging to different domains and generated by architectures that have not been used during training. Last, we compare the two classifiers head-to-head on the same generated datasets, highlighting the superiori generalization capabilities of the VQ-VAE 2-based detector. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** The probability flow ODE is provably fast  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11798  
**Abstract:** We provide the first polynomial-time convergence guarantees for the probability flow ODE implementation (together with a corrector step) of score-based generative modeling. Our analysis is carried out in the wake of recent results obtaining such guarantees for the SDE-based implementation (i.e., denoising diffusion probabilistic modeling or DDPM), but requires the development of novel techniques for studying deterministic dynamics without contractivity. Through the use of a specially chosen corrector step based on the underdamped Langevin diffusion, we obtain better dimension dependence than prior works on DDPM ($O(\sqrt{d})$ vs. $O(d)$, assuming smoothness of the data distribution), highlighting potential advantages of the ODE framework. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Comparing Software Developers with ChatGPT: An Empirical Investigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11837  
**Abstract:** The advent of automation in particular Software Engineering (SE) tasks has transitioned from theory to reality. Numerous scholarly articles have documented the successful application of Artificial Intelligence to address issues in areas such as project management, modeling, testing, and development. A recent innovation is the introduction of ChatGPT, an ML-infused chatbot, touted as a resource proficient in generating programming codes and formulating software testing strategies for developers and testers respectively. Although there is speculation that AI-based computation can increase productivity and even substitute software engineers in software development, there is currently a lack of empirical evidence to verify this. Moreover, despite the primary focus on enhancing the accuracy of AI systems, non-functional requirements including energy efficiency, vulnerability, fairness (i.e., human bias), and safety frequently receive insufficient attention. This paper posits that a comprehensive comparison of software engineers and AI-based solutions, considering various evaluation criteria, is pivotal in fostering human-machine collaboration, enhancing the reliability of AI-based methods, and understanding task suitability for humans or AI. Furthermore, it facilitates the effective implementation of cooperative work structures and human-in-the-loop processes. This paper conducts an empirical investigation, contrasting the performance of software engineers and AI systems, like ChatGPT, across different evaluation metrics. The empirical study includes a case of assessing ChatGPT-generated code versus code produced by developers and uploaded in Leetcode. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** SeeGULL: A Stereotype Benchmark with Broad Geo-Cultural Coverage  Leveraging Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11840  
**Abstract:** Stereotype benchmark datasets are crucial to detect and mitigate social stereotypes about groups of people in NLP models. However, existing datasets are limited in size and coverage, and are largely restricted to stereotypes prevalent in the Western society. This is especially problematic as language technologies gain hold across the globe. To address this gap, we present SeeGULL, a broad-coverage stereotype dataset, built by utilizing generative capabilities of large language models such as PaLM, and GPT-3, and leveraging a globally diverse rater pool to validate the prevalence of those stereotypes in society. SeeGULL is in English, and contains stereotypes about identity groups spanning 178 countries across 8 different geo-political regions across 6 continents, as well as state-level identities within the US and India. We also include fine-grained offensiveness scores for different stereotypes and demonstrate their global disparities. Furthermore, we include comparative annotations about the same groups by annotators living in the region vs. those that are based in North America, and demonstrate that within-region stereotypes about groups differ from those prevalent in North America. CONTENT WARNING: This paper contains stereotype examples that may be offensive. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** How Does Generative Retrieval Scale to Millions of Passages?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11841  
**Abstract:** Popularized by the Differentiable Search Index, the emerging paradigm of generative retrieval re-frames the classic information retrieval problem into a sequence-to-sequence modeling task, forgoing external indices and encoding an entire document corpus within a single Transformer. Although many different approaches have been proposed to improve the effectiveness of generative retrieval, they have only been evaluated on document corpora on the order of 100k in size. We conduct the first empirical study of generative retrieval techniques across various corpus scales, ultimately scaling up to the entire MS MARCO passage ranking task with a corpus of 8.8M passages and evaluating model sizes up to 11B parameters. We uncover several findings about scaling generative retrieval to millions of passages; notably, the central importance of using synthetic queries as document representations during indexing, the ineffectiveness of existing proposed architecture modifications when accounting for compute cost, and the limits of naively scaling model parameters with respect to retrieval performance. While we find that generative retrieval is competitive with state-of-the-art dual encoders on small corpora, scaling to millions of passages remains an important and unsolved challenge. We believe these findings will be valuable for the community to clarify the current state of generative retrieval, highlight the unique challenges, and inspire new research directions. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Any-to-Any Generation via Composable Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11846  
**Abstract:** We present Composable Diffusion (CoDi), a novel generative model capable of generating any combination of output modalities, such as language, image, video, or audio, from any combination of input modalities. Unlike existing generative AI systems, CoDi can generate multiple modalities in parallel and its input is not limited to a subset of modalities like text or image. Despite the absence of training datasets for many combinations of modalities, we propose to align modalities in both the input and output space. This allows CoDi to freely condition on any input combination and generate any group of modalities, even if they are not present in the training data. CoDi employs a novel composable generation strategy which involves building a shared multimodal space by bridging alignment in the diffusion process, enabling the synchronized generation of intertwined modalities, such as temporally aligned video and audio. Highly customizable and flexible, CoDi achieves strong joint-modality generation quality, and outperforms or is on par with the unimodal state-of-the-art for single-modality synthesis. The project page with demonstrations and code is at https://codi-gen.github.io 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Multimodal Web Navigation with Instruction-Finetuned Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11854  
**Abstract:** The progress of autonomous web navigation has been hindered by the dependence on billions of exploratory interactions via online reinforcement learning, and domain-specific model designs that make it difficult to leverage generalization from rich out-of-domain data. In this work, we study data-driven offline training for web agents with vision-language foundation models. We propose an instruction-following multimodal agent, WebGUM, that observes both webpage screenshots and HTML pages and outputs web navigation actions, such as click and type. WebGUM is trained by jointly finetuning an instruction-finetuned language model and a vision transformer on a large corpus of demonstrations. We empirically demonstrate this recipe improves the agent's ability of grounded visual perception, HTML comprehension and multi-step reasoning, outperforming prior works by a significant margin. On the MiniWoB benchmark, we improve over the previous best offline methods by more than 31.9%, being close to reaching online-finetuned SoTA. On the WebShop benchmark, our 3-billion-parameter model achieves superior performance to the existing SoTA, PaLM-540B. We also collect 347K high-quality demonstrations using our trained models, 38 times larger than prior work, and make them available to promote future research in this direction. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Scaling laws for language encoding models in fMRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11863  
**Abstract:** Representations from transformer-based unidirectional language models are known to be effective at predicting brain responses to natural language. However, most studies comparing language models to brains have used GPT-2 or similarly sized language models. Here we tested whether larger open-source models such as those from the OPT and LLaMA families are better at predicting brain responses recorded using fMRI. Mirroring scaling results from other contexts, we found that brain prediction performance scales log-linearly with model size from 125M to 30B parameter models, with ~15% increased encoding performance as measured by correlation with a held-out test set across 3 subjects. Similar log-linear behavior was observed when scaling the size of the fMRI training set. We also characterized scaling for acoustic encoding models that use HuBERT, WavLM, and Whisper, and we found comparable improvements with model size. A noise ceiling analysis of these large, high-performance encoding models showed that performance is nearing the theoretical maximum for brain areas such as the precuneus and higher auditory cortex. These results suggest that increasing scale in both models and data will yield incredibly effective models of language processing in the brain, enabling better scientific understanding as well as applications such as decoding. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Chupa: Carving 3D Clothed Humans from Skinned Shape Priors using 2D  Diffusion Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11870  
**Abstract:** We propose a 3D generation pipeline that uses diffusion models to generate realistic human digital avatars. Due to the wide variety of human identities, poses, and stochastic details, the generation of 3D human meshes has been a challenging problem. To address this, we decompose the problem into 2D normal map generation and normal map-based 3D reconstruction. Specifically, we first simultaneously generate realistic normal maps for the front and backside of a clothed human, dubbed dual normal maps, using a pose-conditional diffusion model. For 3D reconstruction, we ``carve'' the prior SMPL-X mesh to a detailed 3D mesh according to the normal maps through mesh optimization. To further enhance the high-frequency details, we present a diffusion resampling scheme on both body and facial regions, thus encouraging the generation of realistic digital avatars. We also seamlessly incorporate a recent text-to-image diffusion model to support text-based human identity control. Our method, namely, Chupa, is capable of generating realistic 3D clothed humans with better perceptual quality and identity variety. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Vaxformer: Antigenicity-controlled Transformer for Vaccine Design  Against SARS-CoV-2  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11194  
**Abstract:** The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has emphasised the importance of developing a universal vaccine that can protect against current and future variants of the virus. The present study proposes a novel conditional protein Language Model architecture, called Vaxformer, which is designed to produce natural-looking antigenicity-controlled SARS-CoV-2 spike proteins. We evaluate the generated protein sequences of the Vaxformer model using DDGun protein stability measure, netMHCpan antigenicity score, and a structure fidelity score with AlphaFold to gauge its viability for vaccine development. Our results show that Vaxformer outperforms the existing state-of-the-art Conditional Variational Autoencoder model to generate antigenicity-controlled SARS-CoV-2 spike proteins. These findings suggest promising opportunities for conditional Transformer models to expand our understanding of vaccine design and their role in mitigating global health challenges. The code used in this study is available at https://github.com/aryopg/vaxformer . 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** JOINEDTrans: Prior Guided Multi-task Transformer for Joint Optic  Disc/Cup Segmentation and Fovea Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11504  
**Abstract:** Deep learning-based image segmentation and detection models have largely improved the efficiency of analyzing retinal landmarks such as optic disc (OD), optic cup (OC), and fovea. However, factors including ophthalmic disease-related lesions and low image quality issues may severely complicate automatic OD/OC segmentation and fovea detection. Most existing works treat the identification of each landmark as a single task, and take into account no prior information. To address these issues, we propose a prior guided multi-task transformer framework for joint OD/OC segmentation and fovea detection, named JOINEDTrans. JOINEDTrans effectively combines various spatial features of the fundus images, relieving the structural distortions induced by lesions and other imaging issues. It contains a segmentation branch and a detection branch. To be noted, we employ an encoder pretrained in a vessel segmentation task to effectively exploit the positional relationship among vessel, OD/OC, and fovea, successfully incorporating spatial prior into the proposed JOINEDTrans framework. There are a coarse stage and a fine stage in JOINEDTrans. In the coarse stage, OD/OC coarse segmentation and fovea heatmap localization are obtained through a joint segmentation and detection module. In the fine stage, we crop regions of interest for subsequent refinement and use predictions obtained in the coarse stage to provide additional information for better performance and faster convergence. Experimental results demonstrate that JOINEDTrans outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods on the publicly available GAMMA, REFUGE, and PALM fundus image datasets. We make our code available at https://github.com/HuaqingHe/JOINEDTrans 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Language-Universal Phonetic Representation in Multilingual Speech  Pretraining for Low-Resource Speech Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11569  
**Abstract:** We improve low-resource ASR by integrating the ideas of multilingual training and self-supervised learning. Concretely, we leverage an International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) multilingual model to create frame-level pseudo labels for unlabeled speech, and use these pseudo labels to guide hidden-unit BERT (HuBERT) based speech pretraining in a phonetically-informed manner. The experiments on the Multilingual Speech (MLS) Corpus show that the proposed approach consistently outperforms the standard HuBERT on all the target languages. Moreover, on 3 of the 4 languages, comparing to the standard HuBERT, the approach performs better, meanwhile is able to save supervised training data by 1.5k hours (75%) at most. Our approach outperforms most of the state of the arts, with much less pretraining data in terms of hours and language diversity. Compared to XLSR-53 and a retraining based multilingual method, our approach performs better with full and limited finetuning data scenarios. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Recycle-and-Distill: Universal Compression Strategy for  Transformer-based Speech SSL Models with Attention Map Reusing and Masking  Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11685  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based speech self-supervised learning (SSL) models, such as HuBERT, show surprising performance in various speech processing tasks. However, huge number of parameters in speech SSL models necessitate the compression to a more compact model for wider usage in academia or small companies. In this study, we suggest to reuse attention maps across the Transformer layers, so as to remove key and query parameters while retaining the number of layers. Furthermore, we propose a novel masking distillation strategy to improve the student model's speech representation quality. We extend the distillation loss to utilize both masked and unmasked speech frames to fully leverage the teacher model's high-quality representation. Our universal compression strategy yields the student model that achieves phoneme error rate (PER) of 7.72% and word error rate (WER) of 9.96% on the SUPERB benchmark. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** A quality assurance framework for real-time monitoring of deep learning  segmentation models in radiotherapy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.11715  
**Abstract:** To safely deploy deep learning models in the clinic, a quality assurance framework is needed for routine or continuous monitoring of input-domain shift and the models' performance without ground truth contours. In this work, cardiac substructure segmentation was used as an example task to establish a QA framework. A benchmark dataset consisting of Computed Tomography (CT) images along with manual cardiac delineations of 241 patients were collected, including one 'common' image domain and five 'uncommon' domains. Segmentation models were tested on the benchmark dataset for an initial evaluation of model capacity and limitations. An image domain shift detector was developed by utilizing a trained Denoising autoencoder (DAE) and two hand-engineered features. Another Variational Autoencoder (VAE) was also trained to estimate the shape quality of the auto-segmentation results. Using the extracted features from the image/segmentation pair as inputs, a regression model was trained to predict the per-patient segmentation accuracy, measured by Dice coefficient similarity (DSC). The framework was tested across 19 segmentation models to evaluate the generalizability of the entire framework. 

