**ID:** 1  
**Title:** A New Era of Artificial Intelligence in Education: A Multifaceted  Revolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18303  
**Abstract:** The recent high performance of ChatGPT on several standardized academic test has thrust the topic of artificial intelligence (AI) into the mainstream conversation about the future of education. The objective of the present study is to investigate the effect of AI on education by examining its applications, advantages, and challenges. Our report focuses on the use of artificial intelligence in collaborative teacher-student learning, intelligent tutoring systems, automated assessment, and personalized learning. We also look into potential negative aspects, ethical issues, and possible future routes for AI implementation in education. Ultimately, we find that the only way forward is to accept and embrace the new technology, while implementing guardrails to prevent its abuse. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** CDJUR-BR -- A Golden Collection of Legal Document from Brazilian Justice  with Fine-Grained Named Entities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18315  
**Abstract:** A basic task for most Legal Artificial Intelligence (Legal AI) applications is Named Entity Recognition (NER). However, texts produced in the context of legal practice make references to entities that are not trivially recognized by the currently available NERs. There is a lack of categorization of legislation, jurisprudence, evidence, penalties, the roles of people in a legal process (judge, lawyer, victim, defendant, witness), types of locations (crime location, defendant's address), etc. In this sense, there is still a need for a robust golden collection, annotated with fine-grained entities of the legal domain, and which covers various documents of a legal process, such as petitions, inquiries, complaints, decisions and sentences. In this article, we describe the development of the Golden Collection of the Brazilian Judiciary (CDJUR-BR) contemplating a set of fine-grained named entities that have been annotated by experts in legal documents. The creation of CDJUR-BR followed its own methodology that aimed to attribute a character of comprehensiveness and robustness. Together with the CDJUR-BR repository we provided a NER based on the BERT model and trained with the CDJUR-BR, whose results indicated the prevalence of the CDJUR-BR. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Automated Feedback Generation for a Chemistry Database and Abstracting  Exercise  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18319  
**Abstract:** Timely feedback is an important part of teaching and learning. Here we describe how a readily available neural network transformer (machine-learning) model (BERT) can be used to give feedback on the structure of the response to an abstracting exercise where students are asked to summarise the contents of a published article after finding it from a publication database. The dataset contained 207 submissions from two consecutive years of the course, summarising a total of 21 different papers from the primary literature. The model was pre-trained using an available dataset (approx. 15,000 samples) and then fine-tuned on 80% of the submitted dataset. This fine tuning was seen to be important. The sentences in the student submissions are characterised into three classes - background, technique and observation - which allows a comparison of how each submission is structured. Comparing the structure of the students' abstract a large collection of those from the PubMed database shows that students in this exercise concentrate more on the background to the paper and less on the techniques and results than the abstracts to papers themselves. The results allowed feedback for each submitted assignment to be automatically generated. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Cognitive network science reveals bias in GPT-3, ChatGPT, and GPT-4  mirroring math anxiety in high-school students  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18320  
**Abstract:** Large language models are becoming increasingly integrated into our lives. Hence, it is important to understand the biases present in their outputs in order to avoid perpetuating harmful stereotypes, which originate in our own flawed ways of thinking. This challenge requires developing new benchmarks and methods for quantifying affective and semantic bias, keeping in mind that LLMs act as psycho-social mirrors that reflect the views and tendencies that are prevalent in society. One such tendency that has harmful negative effects is the global phenomenon of anxiety toward math and STEM subjects. Here, we investigate perceptions of math and STEM fields provided by cutting-edge language models, namely GPT-3, Chat-GPT, and GPT-4, by applying an approach from network science and cognitive psychology. Specifically, we use behavioral forma mentis networks (BFMNs) to understand how these LLMs frame math and STEM disciplines in relation to other concepts. We use data obtained by probing the three LLMs in a language generation task that has previously been applied to humans. Our findings indicate that LLMs have an overall negative perception of math and STEM fields, with math being perceived most negatively. We observe significant differences across the three LLMs. We observe that newer versions (i.e. GPT-4) produce richer, more complex perceptions as well as less negative perceptions compared to older versions and N=159 high-school students. These findings suggest that advances in the architecture of LLMs may lead to increasingly less biased models that could even perhaps someday aid in reducing harmful stereotypes in society rather than perpetuating them. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** ReWOO: Decoupling Reasoning from Observations for Efficient Augmented  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18323  
**Abstract:** Augmented Language Models (ALMs) blend the reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) with tools that allow for knowledge retrieval and action execution. Existing ALM systems trigger LLM thought processes while pulling observations from these tools in an interleaved fashion. Specifically, an LLM reasons to call an external tool, gets halted to fetch the tool's response, and then decides the next action based on all preceding response tokens. Such a paradigm, though straightforward and easy to implement, often leads to huge computation complexity from redundant prompts and repeated execution. This study addresses such challenges for the first time, proposing a modular paradigm ReWOO (Reasoning WithOut Observation) that detaches the reasoning process from external observations, thus significantly reducing token consumption. Comprehensive evaluations across six public NLP benchmarks and a curated dataset reveal consistent performance enhancements with our proposed methodology. Notably, ReWOO achieves 5x token efficiency and 4% accuracy improvement on HotpotQA, a multi-step reasoning benchmark. Furthermore, ReWOO demonstrates robustness under tool-failure scenarios. Beyond prompt efficiency, decoupling parametric modules from non-parametric tool calls enables instruction fine-tuning to offload LLMs into smaller language models, thus substantially reducing model parameters. Our illustrative work offloads reasoning ability from 175B GPT3.5 into 7B LLaMA, demonstrating the significant potential for truly efficient and scalable ALM systems. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** A Survey on ChatGPT: AI-Generated Contents, Challenges, and Solutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18339  
**Abstract:** With the widespread use of large artificial intelligence (AI) models such as ChatGPT, AI-generated content (AIGC) has garnered increasing attention and is leading a paradigm shift in content creation and knowledge representation. AIGC uses generative large AI algorithms to assist or replace humans in creating massive, high-quality, and human-like content at a faster pace and lower cost, based on user-provided prompts. Despite the recent significant progress in AIGC, security, privacy, ethical, and legal challenges still need to be addressed. This paper presents an in-depth survey of working principles, security and privacy threats, state-of-the-art solutions, and future challenges of the AIGC paradigm. Specifically, we first explore the enabling technologies, general architecture of AIGC, and discuss its working modes and key characteristics. Then, we investigate the taxonomy of security and privacy threats to AIGC and highlight the ethical and societal implications of GPT and AIGC technologies. Furthermore, we review the state-of-the-art AIGC watermarking approaches for regulatable AIGC paradigms regarding the AIGC model and its produced content. Finally, we identify future challenges and open research directions related to AIGC. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Mapping ChatGPT in Mainstream Media: Early Quantitative Insights through  Sentiment Analysis and Word Frequency Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18340  
**Abstract:** The exponential growth in user acquisition and popularity of ChatGPT, an artificial intelligence(AI) powered chatbot, was accompanied by widespread mainstream media coverage. This article presents a quantitative data analysis of the early trends and sentiments revealed by conducting text mining and NLP methods onto a corpus of 10,902 mainstream news headlines related to the subject of ChatGPT and artificial intelligence, from the launch of ChatGPT in November 2022 to March 2023. The findings revealed in sentiment analysis, ChatGPT and artificial intelligence, were perceived more positively than negatively in the mainstream media. In regards to word frequency results, over sixty-five percent of the top frequency words were focused on Big Tech issues and actors while topics such as jobs, diversity, ethics, copyright, gender and women were poorly represented or completely absent and only accounted for six percent of the total corpus. This article is a critical analysis into the power structures and collusions between Big Tech and Big Media in their matrix of domination. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Neural Task Synthesis for Visual Programming  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18342  
**Abstract:** Generative neural models hold great promise in enhancing programming education by synthesizing new content for students. We seek to design neural models that can automatically generate programming tasks for a given specification in the context of visual programming domains. Despite the recent successes of large generative models like GPT-4, our initial results show that these models are ineffective in synthesizing visual programming tasks and struggle with logical and spatial reasoning. We propose a novel neuro-symbolic technique, NeurTaskSyn, that can synthesize programming tasks for a specification given in the form of desired programming concepts exercised by its solution code and constraints on the visual task. NeurTaskSyn has two components: the first component is trained via imitation learning procedure to generate possible solution codes, and the second component is trained via reinforcement learning procedure to guide an underlying symbolic execution engine that generates visual tasks for these codes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of NeurTaskSyn through an extensive empirical evaluation and a qualitative study on reference tasks taken from the Hour of Code: Classic Maze challenge by Code-dot-org and the Intro to Programming with Karel course by CodeHS-dot-com. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Attention Paper: How Generative AI Reshapes Digital Shadow Industry?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18346  
**Abstract:** The rapid development of digital economy has led to the emergence of various black and shadow internet industries, which pose potential risks that can be identified and managed through digital risk management (DRM) that uses different techniques such as machine learning and deep learning. The evolution of DRM architecture has been driven by changes in data forms. However, the development of AI-generated content (AIGC) technology, such as ChatGPT and Stable Diffusion, has given black and shadow industries powerful tools to personalize data and generate realistic images and conversations for fraudulent activities. This poses a challenge for DRM systems to control risks from the source of data generation and to respond quickly to the fast-changing risk environment. This paper aims to provide a technical analysis of the challenges and opportunities of AIGC from upstream, midstream, and downstream paths of black/shadow industries and suggest future directions for improving existing risk control systems. The paper will explore the new black and shadow techniques triggered by generative AI technology and provide insights for building the next-generation DRM system. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** LLMs and the Abstraction and Reasoning Corpus: Successes, Failures, and  the Importance of Object-based Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18354  
**Abstract:** Can a Large Language Model (LLM) solve simple abstract reasoning problems? We explore this broad question through a systematic analysis of GPT on the Abstraction and Reasoning Corpus (ARC), a representative benchmark of abstract reasoning ability from limited examples in which solutions require some "core knowledge" of concepts such as objects, goal states, counting, and basic geometry. GPT-4 solves only 13/50 of the most straightforward ARC tasks when using textual encodings for their two-dimensional input-output grids. Our failure analysis reveals that GPT-4's capacity to identify objects and reason about them is significantly influenced by the sequential nature of the text that represents an object within a text encoding of a task. To test this hypothesis, we design a new benchmark, the 1D-ARC, which consists of one-dimensional (array-like) tasks that are more conducive to GPT-based reasoning, and where it indeed performs better than on the (2D) ARC. To alleviate this issue, we propose an object-based representation that is obtained through an external tool, resulting in nearly doubling the performance on solved ARC tasks and near-perfect scores on the easier 1D-ARC. Although the state-of-the-art GPT-4 is unable to "reason" perfectly within non-language domains such as the 1D-ARC or a simple ARC subset, our study reveals that the use of object-based representations can significantly improve its reasoning ability. Visualizations, GPT logs, and data are available at https://khalil-research.github.io/LLM4ARC. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** An Efficient Membership Inference Attack for the Diffusion Model by  Proximal Initialization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18355  
**Abstract:** Recently, diffusion models have achieved remarkable success in generating tasks, including image and audio generation. However, like other generative models, diffusion models are prone to privacy issues. In this paper, we propose an efficient query-based membership inference attack (MIA), namely Proximal Initialization Attack (PIA), which utilizes groundtruth trajectory obtained by $\epsilon$ initialized in $t=0$ and predicted point to infer memberships. Experimental results indicate that the proposed method can achieve competitive performance with only two queries on both discrete-time and continuous-time diffusion models. Moreover, previous works on the privacy of diffusion models have focused on vision tasks without considering audio tasks. Therefore, we also explore the robustness of diffusion models to MIA in the text-to-speech (TTS) task, which is an audio generation task. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first to study the robustness of diffusion models to MIA in the TTS task. Experimental results indicate that models with mel-spectrogram (image-like) output are vulnerable to MIA, while models with audio output are relatively robust to MIA. {Code is available at \url{https://github.com/kong13661/PIA}}. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Towards Explainable Conversational Recommender Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18363  
**Abstract:** Explanations in conventional recommender systems have demonstrated benefits in helping the user understand the rationality of the recommendations and improving the system's efficiency, transparency, and trustworthiness. In the conversational environment, multiple contextualized explanations need to be generated, which poses further challenges for explanations. To better measure explainability in conversational recommender systems (CRS), we propose ten evaluation perspectives based on concepts from conventional recommender systems together with the characteristics of CRS. We assess five existing CRS benchmark datasets using these metrics and observe the necessity of improving the explanation quality of CRS. To achieve this, we conduct manual and automatic approaches to extend these dialogues and construct a new CRS dataset, namely Explainable Recommendation Dialogues (E-ReDial). It includes 756 dialogues with over 2,000 high-quality rewritten explanations. We compare two baseline approaches to perform explanation generation based on E-ReDial. Experimental results suggest that models trained on E-ReDial can significantly improve explainability while introducing knowledge into the models can further improve the performance. GPT-3 in the in-context learning setting can generate more realistic and diverse movie descriptions. In contrast, T5 training on E-ReDial can better generate clear reasons for recommendations based on user preferences. E-ReDial is available at https://github.com/Superbooming/E-ReDial. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** What indeed can GPT models do in chemistry? A comprehensive benchmark on  eight tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18365  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) with strong abilities in natural language processing tasks have emerged and have been rapidly applied in various kinds of areas such as science, finance and software engineering. However, the capability of LLMs to advance the field of chemistry remains unclear. In this paper,we establish a comprehensive benchmark containing 8 practical chemistry tasks, including 1) name prediction, 2) property prediction, 3) yield prediction, 4) reaction prediction, 5) retrosynthesis (prediction of reactants from products), 6)text-based molecule design, 7) molecule captioning, and 8) reagent selection. Our analysis draws on widely recognized datasets including BBBP, Tox21, PubChem, USPTO, and ChEBI, facilitating a broad exploration of the capacities of LLMs within the context of practical chemistry. Three GPT models (GPT-4, GPT-3.5,and Davinci-003) are evaluated for each chemistry task in zero-shot and few-shot in-context learning settings with carefully selected demonstration examples and specially crafted prompts. The key results of our investigation are 1) GPT-4 outperforms the other two models among the three evaluated; 2) GPT models exhibit less competitive performance in tasks demanding precise understanding of molecular SMILES representation, such as reaction prediction and retrosynthesis;3) GPT models demonstrate strong capabilities in text-related explanation tasks such as molecule captioning; and 4) GPT models exhibit comparable or better performance to classical machine learning models when applied to chemical problems that can be transformed into classification or ranking tasks, such as property prediction, and yield prediction. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Learning to Jump: Thinning and Thickening Latent Counts for Generative  Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18375  
**Abstract:** Learning to denoise has emerged as a prominent paradigm to design state-of-the-art deep generative models for natural images. How to use it to model the distributions of both continuous real-valued data and categorical data has been well studied in recently proposed diffusion models. However, it is found in this paper to have limited ability in modeling some other types of data, such as count and non-negative continuous data, that are often highly sparse, skewed, heavy-tailed, and/or overdispersed. To this end, we propose learning to jump as a general recipe for generative modeling of various types of data. Using a forward count thinning process to construct learning objectives to train a deep neural network, it employs a reverse count thickening process to iteratively refine its generation through that network. We demonstrate when learning to jump is expected to perform comparably to learning to denoise, and when it is expected to perform better. For example, learning to jump is recommended when the training data is non-negative and exhibits strong sparsity, skewness, heavy-tailedness, and/or heterogeneity. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Adaptive Sparsity Level during Training for Efficient Time Series  Forecasting with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18382  
**Abstract:** Efficient time series forecasting has become critical for real-world applications, particularly with deep neural networks (DNNs). Efficiency in DNNs can be achieved through sparse connectivity and reducing the model size. However, finding the sparsity level automatically during training remains a challenging task due to the heterogeneity in the loss-sparsity tradeoffs across the datasets. In this paper, we propose \enquote{\textbf{P}runing with \textbf{A}daptive \textbf{S}parsity \textbf{L}evel} (\textbf{PALS}), to automatically seek an optimal balance between loss and sparsity, all without the need for a predefined sparsity level. PALS draws inspiration from both sparse training and during-training methods. It introduces the novel "expand" mechanism in training sparse neural networks, allowing the model to dynamically shrink, expand, or remain stable to find a proper sparsity level. In this paper, we focus on achieving efficiency in transformers known for their excellent time series forecasting performance but high computational cost. Nevertheless, PALS can be applied directly to any DNN. In the scope of these arguments, we demonstrate its effectiveness also on the DLinear model. Experimental results on six benchmark datasets and five state-of-the-art transformer variants show that PALS substantially reduces model size while maintaining comparable performance to the dense model. More interestingly, PALS even outperforms the dense model, in 12 and 14 cases out of 30 cases in terms of MSE and MAE loss, respectively, while reducing 65% parameter count and 63% FLOPs on average. Our code will be publicly available upon acceptance of the paper. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Augmenting Character Designers Creativity Using Generative Adversarial  Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18387  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) continue to attract the attention of researchers in different fields due to the wide range of applications devised to take advantage of their key features. Most recent GANs are focused on realism, however, generating hyper-realistic output is not a priority for some domains, as in the case of this work. The generated outcomes are used here as cognitive components to augment character designers creativity while conceptualizing new characters for different multimedia projects. To select the best-suited GANs for such a creative context, we first present a comparison between different GAN architectures and their performance when trained from scratch on a new visual characters dataset using a single Graphics Processing Unit. We also explore alternative techniques, such as transfer learning and data augmentation, to overcome computational resource limitations, a challenge faced by many researchers in the domain. Additionally, mixed methods are used to evaluate the cognitive value of the generated visuals on character designers agency conceptualizing new characters. The results discussed proved highly effective for this context, as demonstrated by early adaptations to the characters design process. As an extension for this work, the presented approach will be further evaluated as a novel co-design process between humans and machines to investigate where and how the generated concepts are interacting with and influencing the design process outcome. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** MemeGraphs: Linking Memes to Knowledge Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18391  
**Abstract:** Memes are a popular form of communicating trends and ideas in social media and on the internet in general, combining the modalities of images and text. They can express humor and sarcasm but can also have offensive content. Analyzing and classifying memes automatically is challenging since their interpretation relies on the understanding of visual elements, language, and background knowledge. Thus, it is important to meaningfully represent these sources and the interaction between them in order to classify a meme as a whole. In this work, we propose to use scene graphs, that express images in terms of objects and their visual relations, and knowledge graphs as structured representations for meme classification with a Transformer-based architecture. We compare our approach with ImgBERT, a multimodal model that uses only learned (instead of structured) representations of the meme, and observe consistent improvements. We further provide a dataset with human graph annotations that we compare to automatically generated graphs and entity linking. Analysis shows that automatic methods link more entities than human annotators and that automatically generated graphs are better suited for hatefulness classification in memes. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** LLMs Can Understand Encrypted Prompt: Towards Privacy-Computing Friendly  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18396  
**Abstract:** Prior works have attempted to build private inference frameworks for transformer-based large language models (LLMs) in a server-client setting, where the server holds the model parameters and the client inputs the private data for inference. However, these frameworks impose significant overhead when the private inputs are forward propagated through the original LLMs. In this paper, we show that substituting the computation- and communication-heavy operators in the transformer architecture with privacy-computing friendly approximations can greatly reduce the private inference costs with minor impact on model performance. Compared to the state-of-the-art Iron (NeurIPS 2022), our privacy-computing friendly model inference pipeline achieves a $5\times$ acceleration in computation and an 80\% reduction in communication overhead, while retaining nearly identical accuracy. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Geometric Algebra Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18415  
**Abstract:** Problems involving geometric data arise in a variety of fields, including computer vision, robotics, chemistry, and physics. Such data can take numerous forms, such as points, direction vectors, planes, or transformations, but to date there is no single architecture that can be applied to such a wide variety of geometric types while respecting their symmetries. In this paper we introduce the Geometric Algebra Transformer (GATr), a general-purpose architecture for geometric data. GATr represents inputs, outputs, and hidden states in the projective geometric algebra, which offers an efficient 16-dimensional vector space representation of common geometric objects as well as operators acting on them. GATr is equivariant with respect to E(3), the symmetry group of 3D Euclidean space. As a transformer, GATr is scalable, expressive, and versatile. In experiments with n-body modeling and robotic planning, GATr shows strong improvements over non-geometric baselines. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Cognitively Inspired Cross-Modal Data Generation Using Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18433  
**Abstract:** Most existing cross-modal generative methods based on diffusion models use guidance to provide control over the latent space to enable conditional generation across different modalities. Such methods focus on providing guidance through separately-trained models, each for one modality. As a result, these methods suffer from cross-modal information loss and are limited to unidirectional conditional generation. Inspired by how humans synchronously acquire multi-modal information and learn the correlation between modalities, we explore a multi-modal diffusion model training and sampling scheme that uses channel-wise image conditioning to learn cross-modality correlation during the training phase to better mimic the learning process in the brain. Our empirical results demonstrate that our approach can achieve data generation conditioned on all correlated modalities. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Generating Driving Scenes with Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18452  
**Abstract:** In this paper we describe a learned method of traffic scene generation designed to simulate the output of the perception system of a self-driving car. In our "Scene Diffusion" system, inspired by latent diffusion, we use a novel combination of diffusion and object detection to directly create realistic and physically plausible arrangements of discrete bounding boxes for agents. We show that our scene generation model is able to adapt to different regions in the US, producing scenarios that capture the intricacies of each region. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Diff-Instruct: A Universal Approach for Transferring Knowledge From  Pre-trained Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18455  
**Abstract:** Due to the ease of training, ability to scale, and high sample quality, diffusion models (DMs) have become the preferred option for generative modeling, with numerous pre-trained models available for a wide variety of datasets. Containing intricate information about data distributions, pre-trained DMs are valuable assets for downstream applications. In this work, we consider learning from pre-trained DMs and transferring their knowledge to other generative models in a data-free fashion. Specifically, we propose a general framework called Diff-Instruct to instruct the training of arbitrary generative models as long as the generated samples are differentiable with respect to the model parameters. Our proposed Diff-Instruct is built on a rigorous mathematical foundation where the instruction process directly corresponds to minimizing a novel divergence we call Integral Kullback-Leibler (IKL) divergence. IKL is tailored for DMs by calculating the integral of the KL divergence along a diffusion process, which we show to be more robust in comparing distributions with misaligned supports. We also reveal non-trivial connections of our method to existing works such as DreamFusion, and generative adversarial training. To demonstrate the effectiveness and universality of Diff-Instruct, we consider two scenarios: distilling pre-trained diffusion models and refining existing GAN models. The experiments on distilling pre-trained diffusion models show that Diff-Instruct results in state-of-the-art single-step diffusion-based models. The experiments on refining GAN models show that the Diff-Instruct can consistently improve the pre-trained generators of GAN models across various settings. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Diffusion Model is an Effective Planner and Data Synthesizer for  Multi-Task Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18459  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have demonstrated highly-expressive generative capabilities in vision and NLP. Recent studies in reinforcement learning (RL) have shown that diffusion models are also powerful in modeling complex policies or trajectories in offline datasets. However, these works have been limited to single-task settings where a generalist agent capable of addressing multi-task predicaments is absent. In this paper, we aim to investigate the effectiveness of a single diffusion model in modeling large-scale multi-task offline data, which can be challenging due to diverse and multimodal data distribution. Specifically, we propose Multi-Task Diffusion Model (\textsc{MTDiff}), a diffusion-based method that incorporates Transformer backbones and prompt learning for generative planning and data synthesis in multi-task offline settings. \textsc{MTDiff} leverages vast amounts of knowledge available in multi-task data and performs implicit knowledge sharing among tasks. For generative planning, we find \textsc{MTDiff} outperforms state-of-the-art algorithms across 50 tasks on Meta-World and 8 maps on Maze2D. For data synthesis, \textsc{MTDiff} generates high-quality data for testing tasks given a single demonstration as a prompt, which enhances the low-quality datasets for even unseen tasks. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Test-Time Training on Nearest Neighbors for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18466  
**Abstract:** Many recent efforts aim to augment language models with relevant information retrieved from a database at test time. We avoid the need for prompt engineering by directly fine-tuning the model on data retrieved at test time using its standard training setup. For this purpose, we build a large-scale distributed nearest neighbor index based on text embeddings of the Pile dataset. Given a query to a language model, our system retrieves the neighbors of the query and fine-tunes the model on the text data corresponding to those neighbors. Surprisingly, retrieving and training on as few as 20 neighbors, each for only one gradient iteration, drastically improves performance across more than twenty language modeling tasks in the Pile benchmark. For example, test-time training significantly narrows the performance gap between a small GPT2 model and a GPTNeo model, more than ten times larger, that was specifically trained to convergence on the Pile. Sufficient index quality and size, however, are important. Our work establishes a valuable first baseline for implementing test-time training in the context of large language models, opening the door to numerous promising research avenues. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Aligning Optimization Trajectories with Diffusion Models for Constrained  Design Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18470  
**Abstract:** Generative models have had a profound impact on vision and language, paving the way for a new era of multimodal generative applications. While these successes have inspired researchers to explore using generative models in science and engineering to accelerate the design process and reduce the reliance on iterative optimization, challenges remain. Specifically, engineering optimization methods based on physics still outperform generative models when dealing with constrained environments where data is scarce and precision is paramount. To address these challenges, we introduce Diffusion Optimization Models (DOM) and Trajectory Alignment (TA), a learning framework that demonstrates the efficacy of aligning the sampling trajectory of diffusion models with the optimization trajectory derived from traditional physics-based methods. This alignment ensures that the sampling process remains grounded in the underlying physical principles. Our method allows for generating feasible and high-performance designs in as few as two steps without the need for expensive preprocessing, external surrogate models, or additional labeled data. We apply our framework to structural topology optimization, a fundamental problem in mechanical design, evaluating its performance on in- and out-of-distribution configurations. Our results demonstrate that TA outperforms state-of-the-art deep generative models on in-distribution configurations and halves the inference computational cost. When coupled with a few steps of optimization, it also improves manufacturability for out-of-distribution conditions. By significantly improving performance and inference efficiency, DOM enables us to generate high-quality designs in just a few steps and guide them toward regions of high performance and manufacturability, paving the way for the widespread application of generative models in large-scale data-driven design. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Make-An-Audio 2: Temporal-Enhanced Text-to-Audio Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18474  
**Abstract:** Large diffusion models have been successful in text-to-audio (T2A) synthesis tasks, but they often suffer from common issues such as semantic misalignment and poor temporal consistency due to limited natural language understanding and data scarcity. Additionally, 2D spatial structures widely used in T2A works lead to unsatisfactory audio quality when generating variable-length audio samples since they do not adequately prioritize temporal information. To address these challenges, we propose Make-an-Audio 2, a latent diffusion-based T2A method that builds on the success of Make-an-Audio. Our approach includes several techniques to improve semantic alignment and temporal consistency: Firstly, we use pre-trained large language models (LLMs) to parse the text into structured <event & order> pairs for better temporal information capture. We also introduce another structured-text encoder to aid in learning semantic alignment during the diffusion denoising process. To improve the performance of variable length generation and enhance the temporal information extraction, we design a feed-forward Transformer-based diffusion denoiser. Finally, we use LLMs to augment and transform a large amount of audio-label data into audio-text datasets to alleviate the problem of scarcity of temporal data. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms baseline models in both objective and subjective metrics, and achieves significant gains in temporal information understanding, semantic consistency, and sound quality. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Approximation theory of transformer networks for sequence modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18475  
**Abstract:** The transformer is a widely applied architecture in sequence modeling applications, but the theoretical understanding of its working principles is limited. In this work, we investigate the ability of transformers to approximate sequential relationships. We first prove a universal approximation theorem for the transformer hypothesis space. From its derivation, we identify a novel notion of regularity under which we can prove an explicit approximation rate estimate. This estimate reveals key structural properties of the transformer and suggests the types of sequence relationships that the transformer is adapted to approximating. In particular, it allows us to concretely discuss the structural bias between the transformer and classical sequence modeling methods, such as recurrent neural networks. Our findings are supported by numerical experiments. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Autoencoding Conditional Neural Processes for Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18485  
**Abstract:** Conditional neural processes (CNPs) are a flexible and efficient family of models that learn to learn a stochastic process from observations. In the visual domain, they have seen particular application in contextual image completion - observing pixel values at some locations to predict a distribution over values at other unobserved locations. However, the choice of pixels in learning such a CNP is typically either random or derived from a simple statistical measure (e.g. pixel variance). Here, we turn the problem on its head and ask: which pixels would a CNP like to observe? That is, which pixels allow fitting CNP, and do such pixels tell us something about the underlying image? Viewing the context provided to the CNP as fixed-size latent representations, we construct an amortised variational framework, Partial Pixel Space Variational Autoencoder (PPS-VAE), for predicting this context simultaneously with learning a CNP. We evaluate PPS-VAE on a set of vision datasets, and find that not only is it possible to learn context points while also fitting CNPs, but that their spatial arrangement and values provides strong signal for the information contained in the image - evaluated through the lens of classification. We believe the PPS-VAE provides a promising avenue to explore learning interpretable and effective visual representations. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** A Systematic Study and Comprehensive Evaluation of ChatGPT on Benchmark  Datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18486  
**Abstract:** The development of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT has brought a lot of attention recently. However, their evaluation in the benchmark academic datasets remains under-explored due to the difficulty of evaluating the generative outputs produced by this model against the ground truth. In this paper, we aim to present a thorough evaluation of ChatGPT's performance on diverse academic datasets, covering tasks like question-answering, text summarization, code generation, commonsense reasoning, mathematical problem-solving, machine translation, bias detection, and ethical considerations. Specifically, we evaluate ChatGPT across 140 tasks and analyze 255K responses it generates in these datasets. This makes our work the largest evaluation of ChatGPT in NLP benchmarks. In short, our study aims to validate the strengths and weaknesses of ChatGPT in various tasks and provide insights for future research using LLMs. We also report a new emergent ability to follow multi-query instructions that we mostly found in ChatGPT and other instruction-tuned models. Our extensive evaluation shows that even though ChatGPT is capable of performing a wide variety of tasks, and may obtain impressive performance in several benchmark datasets, it is still far from achieving the ability to reliably solve many challenging tasks. By providing a thorough assessment of ChatGPT's performance across diverse NLP tasks, this paper sets the stage for a targeted deployment of ChatGPT-like LLMs in real-world applications. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Solar Irradiance Anticipative Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18487  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes an anticipative transformer-based model for short-term solar irradiance forecasting. Given a sequence of sky images, our proposed vision transformer encodes features of consecutive images, feeding into a transformer decoder to predict irradiance values associated with future unseen sky images. We show that our model effectively learns to attend only to relevant features in images in order to forecast irradiance. Moreover, the proposed anticipative transformer captures long-range dependencies between sky images to achieve a forecasting skill of 21.45 % on a 15 minute ahead prediction for a newly introduced dataset of all-sky images when compared to a smart persistence model. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Adapting Learned Sparse Retrieval for Long Documents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18494  
**Abstract:** Learned sparse retrieval (LSR) is a family of neural retrieval methods that transform queries and documents into sparse weight vectors aligned with a vocabulary. While LSR approaches like Splade work well for short passages, it is unclear how well they handle longer documents. We investigate existing aggregation approaches for adapting LSR to longer documents and find that proximal scoring is crucial for LSR to handle long documents. To leverage this property, we proposed two adaptations of the Sequential Dependence Model (SDM) to LSR: ExactSDM and SoftSDM. ExactSDM assumes only exact query term dependence, while SoftSDM uses potential functions that model the dependence of query terms and their expansion terms (i.e., terms identified using a transformer's masked language modeling head). 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** SlimFit: Memory-Efficient Fine-Tuning of Transformer-based Models Using  Training Dynamics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18513  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based models, such as BERT and ViT, have achieved state-of-the-art results across different natural language processing (NLP) and computer vision (CV) tasks. However, these models are extremely memory intensive during their fine-tuning process, making them difficult to deploy on GPUs with limited memory resources. To address this issue, we introduce a new tool called SlimFit that reduces the memory requirements of these models by dynamically analyzing their training dynamics and freezing less-contributory layers during fine-tuning. The layers to freeze are chosen using a runtime inter-layer scheduling algorithm. SlimFit adopts quantization and pruning for particular layers to balance the load of dynamic activations and to minimize the memory footprint of static activations, where static activations refer to those that cannot be discarded regardless of freezing. This allows SlimFit to freeze up to 95% of layers and reduce the overall on-device GPU memory usage of transformer-based models such as ViT and BERT by an average of 2.2x, across different NLP and CV benchmarks/datasets such as GLUE, SQuAD 2.0, CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100 and ImageNet with an average degradation of 0.2% in accuracy. For such NLP and CV tasks, SlimFit can reduce up to 3.1x the total on-device memory usage with an accuracy degradation of only up to 0.4%. As a result, while fine-tuning of ViT on ImageNet and BERT on SQuAD 2.0 with a batch size of 128 requires 3 and 2 32GB GPUs respectively, SlimFit enables their fine-tuning on a single 32GB GPU without any significant accuracy degradation. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Fairness of ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18569  
**Abstract:** Understanding and addressing unfairness in LLMs are crucial for responsible AI deployment. However, there is a limited availability of quantitative analyses and in-depth studies regarding fairness evaluations in LLMs, especially when applying LLMs to high-stakes fields. This work aims to fill this gap by providing a systematic evaluation of the effectiveness and fairness of LLMs using ChatGPT as a study case. We focus on assessing ChatGPT's performance in high-takes fields including education, criminology, finance and healthcare. To make thorough evaluation, we consider both group fairness and individual fairness and we also observe the disparities in ChatGPT's outputs under a set of biased or unbiased prompts. This work contributes to a deeper understanding of LLMs' fairness performance, facilitates bias mitigation and fosters the development of responsible artificial intelligence systems. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Controllable Text-to-Image Generation with GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18583  
**Abstract:** Current text-to-image generation models often struggle to follow textual instructions, especially the ones requiring spatial reasoning. On the other hand, Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, have shown remarkable precision in generating code snippets for sketching out text inputs graphically, e.g., via TikZ. In this work, we introduce Control-GPT to guide the diffusion-based text-to-image pipelines with programmatic sketches generated by GPT-4, enhancing their abilities for instruction following. Control-GPT works by querying GPT-4 to write TikZ code, and the generated sketches are used as references alongside the text instructions for diffusion models (e.g., ControlNet) to generate photo-realistic images. One major challenge to training our pipeline is the lack of a dataset containing aligned text, images, and sketches. We address the issue by converting instance masks in existing datasets into polygons to mimic the sketches used at test time. As a result, Control-GPT greatly boosts the controllability of image generation. It establishes a new state-of-art on the spatial arrangement and object positioning generation and enhances users' control of object positions, sizes, etc., nearly doubling the accuracy of prior models. Our work, as a first attempt, shows the potential for employing LLMs to enhance the performance in computer vision tasks. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** On Diffusion Modeling for Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18593  
**Abstract:** Known for their impressive performance in generative modeling, diffusion models are attractive candidates for density-based anomaly detection. This paper investigates different variations of diffusion modeling for unsupervised and semi-supervised anomaly detection. In particular, we find that Denoising Diffusion Probability Models (DDPM) are performant on anomaly detection benchmarks yet computationally expensive. By simplifying DDPM in application to anomaly detection, we are naturally led to an alternative approach called Diffusion Time Probabilistic Model (DTPM). DTPM estimates the posterior distribution over diffusion time for a given input, enabling the identification of anomalies due to their higher posterior density at larger timesteps. We derive an analytical form for this posterior density and leverage a deep neural network to improve inference efficiency. Through empirical evaluations on the ADBench benchmark, we demonstrate that all diffusion-based anomaly detection methods perform competitively. Notably, DTPM achieves orders of magnitude faster inference time than DDPM, while outperforming it on this benchmark. These results establish diffusion-based anomaly detection as an interpretable and scalable alternative to traditional methods and recent deep-learning techniques. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** BRIGHT: Bi-level Feature Representation of Image Collections using  Groups of Hash Tables  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18601  
**Abstract:** We present BRIGHT, a bi-levelfeature representation for an imagecollection, consisting of a per-image latent space on top of a multi-scale feature grid space. Our representation is learned by an autoencoder to encode images intocontinuouskey codes, which are used to retrieve features fromgroups of multi-resolution hashtables. Our key codes and hash tables are trained together continuously with well-defined gradient flows, leading to high usage of the hash table entries and improved generative modeling compared to discrete Vector Quantization (VQ). Differently from existing continuous representations such as KL-regularized latent codes, our key codes are strictly bounded in scale and variance. Overall, feature encoding by BRIGHT is compact, efficient to train, and enables generative modeling over the image codes using state-of-the-art generators such as latent diffusion models(LDMs). Experimental results show that our method achieves comparable recon-struction results to VQ methods while having a smaller and more efficient decoder network. By applying LDM over our key code space, we achieve state-of-the-art performance on image synthesis on the LSUN-Church and human-face datasets. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Networked Time Series Imputation via Position-aware Graph Enhanced  Variational Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18612  
**Abstract:** Multivariate time series (MTS) imputation is a widely studied problem in recent years. Existing methods can be divided into two main groups, including (1) deep recurrent or generative models that primarily focus on time series features, and (2) graph neural networks (GNNs) based models that utilize the topological information from the inherent graph structure of MTS as relational inductive bias for imputation. Nevertheless, these methods either neglect topological information or assume the graph structure is fixed and accurately known. Thus, they fail to fully utilize the graph dynamics for precise imputation in more challenging MTS data such as networked time series (NTS), where the underlying graph is constantly changing and might have missing edges. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to overcome these limitations. First, we define the problem of imputation over NTS which contains missing values in both node time series features and graph structures. Then, we design a new model named PoGeVon which leverages variational autoencoder (VAE) to predict missing values over both node time series features and graph structures. In particular, we propose a new node position embedding based on random walk with restart (RWR) in the encoder with provable higher expressive power compared with message-passing based graph neural networks (GNNs). We further design a decoder with 3-stage predictions from the perspective of multi-task learning to impute missing values in both time series and graph structures reciprocally. Experiment results demonstrate the effectiveness of our model over baselines. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Embrace Opportunities and Face Challenges: Using ChatGPT in  Undergraduate Students' Collaborative Interdisciplinary Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18616  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT, launched in November 2022, has gained widespread attention from students and educators globally, with an online report by Hu (2023) stating it as the fastest-growing consumer application in history. While discussions on the use of ChatGPT in higher education are abundant, empirical studies on its impact on collaborative interdisciplinary learning are rare. To investigate its potential, we conducted a quasi-experimental study with 130 undergraduate students (STEM and non-STEM) learning digital literacy with or without ChatGPT over two weeks. Weekly surveys were conducted on collaborative interdisciplinary problem-solving, physical and cognitive engagement, and individual reflections on ChatGPT use. Analysis of survey responses showed significant main effects of topics on collaborative interdisciplinary problem-solving and physical and cognitive engagement, a marginal interaction effect between disciplinary backgrounds and ChatGPT conditions for cognitive engagement, and a significant interaction effect for physical engagement. Sentiment analysis of student reflections suggested no significant difference between STEM and non-STEM students' opinions towards ChatGPT. Qualitative analysis of reflections generated eight positive themes, including efficiency, addressing knowledge gaps, and generating human-like responses, and eight negative themes, including generic responses, lack of innovation, and counterproductive to self-discipline and thinking. Our findings suggest that ChatGPT use needs to be optimized by considering the topics being taught and the disciplinary backgrounds of students rather than applying it uniformly. These findings have implications for both pedagogical research and practices. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Waiting, Banning, and Embracing: An Empirical Analysis of Adapting  Policies for Generative AI in Higher Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18617  
**Abstract:** Generative AI tools such as ChatGPT have recently gained significant attention in higher education. This study aims to understand how universities establish policies regarding the use of AI tools and explore the factors that influence their decisions. Our study examines ChatGPT policies implemented at universities around the world, including their existence, content, and issuance dates. Specifically, we analyzed the top 500 universities according to the 2022 QS World University Rankings. Our findings indicate that there is significant variation in university policies. Less than one-third of the universities included in the study had implemented ChatGPT policies. Of the universities with ChatGPT policies, approximately 67 percent embraced ChatGPT in teaching and learning, more than twice the number of universities that banned it. The majority of the universities that ban the use of ChatGPT in assessments allow individual instructors to deviate from this restrictive policy. Our empirical analysis identifies several factors that are significantly and positively correlated with a university's likelihood of having a ChatGPT policy, including the university's academic reputation score, being in an English-speaking country, and the general public attitudes toward ChatGPT. In addition, we found that a university's likelihood of having a ban policy is positively associated with faculty student ratio, citations, and the English-speaking country dummy, while negatively associated with the number of peer universities within the same country that have banned ChatGPT. We discuss the challenges faced by universities based our empirical findings. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Chatbots put to the test in math and logic problems: A preliminary  comparison and assessment of ChatGPT-3.5, ChatGPT-4, and Google Bard  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18618  
**Abstract:** A comparison between three chatbots which are based on large language models, namely ChatGPT-3.5, ChatGPT-4 and Google Bard is presented, focusing on their ability to give correct answers to mathematics and logic problems. In particular, we check their ability to Understand the problem at hand; Apply appropriate algorithms or methods for its solution; and Generate a coherent response and a correct answer. We use 30 questions that are clear, without any ambiguities, fully described with plain text only, and have a unique, well defined correct answer. The questions are divided into two sets of 15 each. The questions of Set A are 15 "Original" problems that cannot be found online, while Set B contains 15 "Published" problems that one can find online, usually with their solution. Each question is posed three times to each chatbot. The answers are recorded and discussed, highlighting their strengths and weaknesses. It has been found that for straightforward arithmetic, algebraic expressions, or basic logic puzzles, chatbots may provide accurate solutions, although not in every attempt. However, for more complex mathematical problems or advanced logic tasks, their answers, although written in a usually "convincing" way, may not be reliable. Consistency is also an issue, as many times a chatbot will provide conflicting answers when given the same question more than once. A comparative quantitative evaluation of the three chatbots is made through scoring their final answers based on correctness. It was found that ChatGPT-4 outperforms ChatGPT-3.5 in both sets of questions. Bard comes third in the original questions of Set A, behind the other two chatbots, while it has the best performance (first place) in the published questions of Set B. This is probably because Bard has direct access to the internet, in contrast to ChatGPT chatbots which do not have any communication with the outside world. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Likelihood-Based Diffusion Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18619  
**Abstract:** Despite a growing interest in diffusion-based language models, existing work has not shown that these models can attain nontrivial likelihoods on standard language modeling benchmarks. In this work, we take the first steps towards closing the likelihood gap between autoregressive and diffusion-based language models, with the goal of building and releasing a diffusion model which outperforms a small but widely-known autoregressive model. We pursue this goal through algorithmic improvements, scaling laws, and increased compute. On the algorithmic front, we introduce several methodological improvements for the maximum-likelihood training of diffusion language models. We then study scaling laws for our diffusion models and find compute-optimal training regimes which differ substantially from autoregressive models. Using our methods and scaling analysis, we train and release Plaid 1B, a large diffusion language model which outperforms GPT-2 124M in likelihood on benchmark datasets and generates fluent samples in unconditional and zero-shot control settings. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** CONA: A novel CONtext-Aware instruction paradigm for communication using  large language model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18620  
**Abstract:** We introduce CONA, a novel context-aware instruction paradigm for effective knowledge dissemination using generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models. CONA is a flexible framework designed to leverage the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) and incorporate DIKW (Data, Information, Knowledge, Wisdom) hierarchy to automatically instruct and optimise presentation content, anticipate potential audience inquiries, and provide context-aware answers that adaptive to the knowledge level of the audience group. The unique aspect of the CONA paradigm lies in its combination of an independent advisory mechanism and a recursive feedback loop rooted on the DIKW hierarchy. This synergy significantly enhances context-aware contents, ensuring they are accessible and easily comprehended by the audience. This paradigm is an early pioneer to explore new methods for knowledge dissemination and communication in the LLM era, offering effective support for everyday knowledge sharing scenarios. We conduct experiments on a range of audience roles, along with materials from various disciplines using GPT4. Both quantitative and qualitative results demonstrated that the proposed CONA paradigm achieved remarkable performance compared to the outputs guided by conventional prompt engineering. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Faith and Fate: Limits of Transformers on Compositionality  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18654  
**Abstract:** Transformer large language models (LLMs) have sparked admiration for their exceptional performance on tasks that demand intricate multi-step reasoning. Yet, these models simultaneously show failures on surprisingly trivial problems. This begs the question: Are these errors incidental, or do they signal more substantial limitations? In an attempt to demystify Transformers, we investigate the limits of these models across three representative compositional tasks -- multi-digit multiplication, logic grid puzzles, and a classic dynamic programming problem. These tasks require breaking problems down into sub-steps and synthesizing these steps into a precise answer. We formulate compositional tasks as computation graphs to systematically quantify the level of complexity, and break down reasoning steps into intermediate sub-procedures. Our empirical findings suggest that Transformers solve compositional tasks by reducing multi-step compositional reasoning into linearized subgraph matching, without necessarily developing systematic problem-solving skills. To round off our empirical study, we provide theoretical arguments on abstract multi-step reasoning problems that highlight how Transformers' performance will rapidly decay with increased task complexity. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** SAVE: Spectral-Shift-Aware Adaptation of Image Diffusion Models for  Text-guided Video Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18670  
**Abstract:** Text-to-Image (T2I) diffusion models have achieved remarkable success in synthesizing high-quality images conditioned on text prompts. Recent methods have tried to replicate the success by either training text-to-video (T2V) models on a very large number of text-video pairs or adapting T2I models on text-video pairs independently. Although the latter is computationally less expensive, it still takes a significant amount of time for per-video adaption. To address this issue, we propose SAVE, a novel spectral-shift-aware adaptation framework, in which we fine-tune the spectral shift of the parameter space instead of the parameters themselves. Specifically, we take the spectral decomposition of the pre-trained T2I weights and only control the change in the corresponding singular values, i.e. spectral shift, while freezing the corresponding singular vectors. To avoid drastic drift from the original T2I weights, we introduce a spectral shift regularizer that confines the spectral shift to be more restricted for large singular values and more relaxed for small singular values. Since we are only dealing with spectral shifts, the proposed method reduces the adaptation time significantly (approx. 10 times) and has fewer resource constrains for training. Such attributes posit SAVE to be more suitable for real-world applications, e.g. editing undesirable content during video streaming. We validate the effectiveness of SAVE with an extensive experimental evaluation under different settings, e.g. style transfer, object replacement, privacy preservation, etc. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** LayerDiffusion: Layered Controlled Image Editing with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18676  
**Abstract:** Text-guided image editing has recently experienced rapid development. However, simultaneously performing multiple editing actions on a single image, such as background replacement and specific subject attribute changes, while maintaining consistency between the subject and the background remains challenging. In this paper, we propose LayerDiffusion, a semantic-based layered controlled image editing method. Our method enables non-rigid editing and attribute modification of specific subjects while preserving their unique characteristics and seamlessly integrating them into new backgrounds. We leverage a large-scale text-to-image model and employ a layered controlled optimization strategy combined with layered diffusion training. During the diffusion process, an iterative guidance strategy is used to generate a final image that aligns with the textual description. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in generating highly coherent images that closely align with the given textual description. The edited images maintain a high similarity to the features of the input image and surpass the performance of current leading image editing methods. LayerDiffusion opens up new possibilities for controllable image editing. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Edge-MoE: Memory-Efficient Multi-Task Vision Transformer Architecture  with Task-level Sparsity via Mixture-of-Experts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18691  
**Abstract:** Computer vision researchers are embracing two promising paradigms: Vision Transformers (ViTs) and Multi-task Learning (MTL), which both show great performance but are computation-intensive, given the quadratic complexity of self-attention in ViT and the need to activate an entire large MTL model for one task. M$^3$ViT is the latest multi-task ViT model that introduces mixture-of-experts (MoE), where only a small portion of subnetworks ("experts") are sparsely and dynamically activated based on the current task. M$^3$ViT achieves better accuracy and over 80% computation reduction but leaves challenges for efficient deployment on FPGA. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Approximation and Estimation Ability of Transformers for  Sequence-to-Sequence Functions with Infinite Dimensional Input  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18699  
**Abstract:** Despite the great success of Transformer networks in various applications such as natural language processing and computer vision, their theoretical aspects are not well understood. In this paper, we study the approximation and estimation ability of Transformers as sequence-to-sequence functions with infinite dimensional inputs. Although inputs and outputs are both infinite dimensional, we show that when the target function has anisotropic smoothness, Transformers can avoid the curse of dimensionality due to their feature extraction ability and parameter sharing property. In addition, we show that even if the smoothness changes depending on each input, Transformers can estimate the importance of features for each input and extract important features dynamically. Then, we proved that Transformers achieve similar convergence rate as in the case of the fixed smoothness. Our theoretical results support the practical success of Transformers for high dimensional data. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** A Mixed Finite Element Method for Singularly Perturbed Fourth Oder  Convection-Reaction-Diffusion Problems on Shishkin Mesh  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18711  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces an approach to decoupling singularly perturbed boundary value problems for fourth-order ordinary differential equations that feature a small positive parameter $\epsilon$ multiplying the highest derivative. We specifically examine Lidstone boundary conditions and demonstrate how to break down fourth-order differential equations into a system of second-order problems, with one lacking the parameter and the other featuring $\epsilon$ multiplying the highest derivative. To solve this system, we propose a mixed finite element algorithm and incorporate the Shishkin mesh scheme to capture the solution near boundary layers. Our solver is both direct and of high accuracy, with computation time that scales linearly with the number of grid points. We present numerical results to validate the theoretical results and the accuracy of our method. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** LayoutMask: Enhance Text-Layout Interaction in Multi-modal Pre-training  for Document Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18721  
**Abstract:** Visually-rich Document Understanding (VrDU) has attracted much research attention over the past years. Pre-trained models on a large number of document images with transformer-based backbones have led to significant performance gains in this field. The major challenge is how to fusion the different modalities (text, layout, and image) of the documents in a unified model with different pre-training tasks. This paper focuses on improving text-layout interactions and proposes a novel multi-modal pre-training model, LayoutMask. LayoutMask uses local 1D position, instead of global 1D position, as layout input and has two pre-training objectives: (1) Masked Language Modeling: predicting masked tokens with two novel masking strategies; (2) Masked Position Modeling: predicting masked 2D positions to improve layout representation learning. LayoutMask can enhance the interactions between text and layout modalities in a unified model and produce adaptive and robust multi-modal representations for downstream tasks. Experimental results show that our proposed method can achieve state-of-the-art results on a wide variety of VrDU problems, including form understanding, receipt understanding, and document image classification. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Towards Accurate Data-free Quantization for Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18723  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose an accurate data-free post-training quantization framework of diffusion models (ADP-DM) for efficient image generation. Conventional data-free quantization methods learn shared quantization functions for tensor discretization regardless of the generation timesteps, while the activation distribution differs significantly across various timesteps. The calibration images are acquired in random timesteps which fail to provide sufficient information for generalizable quantization function learning. Both issues cause sizable quantization errors with obvious image generation performance degradation. On the contrary, we design group-wise quantization functions for activation discretization in different timesteps and sample the optimal timestep for informative calibration image generation, so that our quantized diffusion model can reduce the discretization errors with negligible computational overhead. Specifically, we partition the timesteps according to the importance weights of quantization functions in different groups, which are optimized by differentiable search algorithms. We also select the optimal timestep for calibration image generation by structural risk minimizing principle in order to enhance the generalization ability in the deployment of quantized diffusion model. Extensive experimental results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art post-training quantization of diffusion model by a sizable margin with similar computational cost. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Long-term Wind Power Forecasting with Hierarchical Spatial-Temporal  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18724  
**Abstract:** Wind power is attracting increasing attention around the world due to its renewable, pollution-free, and other advantages. However, safely and stably integrating the high permeability intermittent power energy into electric power systems remains challenging. Accurate wind power forecasting (WPF) can effectively reduce power fluctuations in power system operations. Existing methods are mainly designed for short-term predictions and lack effective spatial-temporal feature augmentation. In this work, we propose a novel end-to-end wind power forecasting model named Hierarchical Spatial-Temporal Transformer Network (HSTTN) to address the long-term WPF problems. Specifically, we construct an hourglass-shaped encoder-decoder framework with skip-connections to jointly model representations aggregated in hierarchical temporal scales, which benefits long-term forecasting. Based on this framework, we capture the inter-scale long-range temporal dependencies and global spatial correlations with two parallel Transformer skeletons and strengthen the intra-scale connections with downsampling and upsampling operations. Moreover, the complementary information from spatial and temporal features is fused and propagated in each other via Contextual Fusion Blocks (CFBs) to promote the prediction further. Extensive experimental results on two large-scale real-world datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our HSTTN over existing solutions. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Diffusion-Stego: Training-free Diffusion Generative Steganography via  Message Projection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18726  
**Abstract:** Generative steganography is the process of hiding secret messages in generated images instead of cover images. Existing studies on generative steganography use GAN or Flow models to obtain high hiding message capacity and anti-detection ability over cover images. However, they create relatively unrealistic stego images because of the inherent limitations of generative models. We propose Diffusion-Stego, a generative steganography approach based on diffusion models which outperform other generative models in image generation. Diffusion-Stego projects secret messages into latent noise of diffusion models and generates stego images with an iterative denoising process. Since the naive hiding of secret messages into noise boosts visual degradation and decreases extracted message accuracy, we introduce message projection, which hides messages into noise space while addressing these issues. We suggest three options for message projection to adjust the trade-off between extracted message accuracy, anti-detection ability, and image quality. Diffusion-Stego is a training-free approach, so we can apply it to pre-trained diffusion models which generate high-quality images, or even large-scale text-to-image models, such as Stable diffusion. Diffusion-Stego achieved a high capacity of messages (3.0 bpp of binary messages with 98% accuracy, and 6.0 bpp with 90% accuracy) as well as high quality (with a FID score of 2.77 for 1.0 bpp on the FFHQ 64$\times$64 dataset) that makes it challenging to distinguish from real images in the PNG format. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Real-World Image Variation by Aligning Diffusion Inversion Chain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18729  
**Abstract:** Recent diffusion model advancements have enabled high-fidelity images to be generated using text prompts. However, a domain gap exists between generated images and real-world images, which poses a challenge in generating high-quality variations of real-world images. Our investigation uncovers that this domain gap originates from a latents' distribution gap in different diffusion processes. To address this issue, we propose a novel inference pipeline called Real-world Image Variation by ALignment (RIVAL) that utilizes diffusion models to generate image variations from a single image exemplar. Our pipeline enhances the generation quality of image variations by aligning the image generation process to the source image's inversion chain. Specifically, we demonstrate that step-wise latent distribution alignment is essential for generating high-quality variations. To attain this, we design a cross-image self-attention injection for feature interaction and a step-wise distribution normalization to align the latent features. Incorporating these alignment processes into a diffusion model allows RIVAL to generate high-quality image variations without further parameter optimization. Our experimental results demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms existing methods with respect to semantic-condition similarity and perceptual quality. Furthermore, this generalized inference pipeline can be easily applied to other diffusion-based generation tasks, such as image-conditioned text-to-image generation and example-based image inpainting. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Generating Behaviorally Diverse Policies with Latent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18738  
**Abstract:** Recent progress in Quality Diversity Reinforcement Learning (QD-RL) has enabled learning a collection of behaviorally diverse, high performing policies. However, these methods typically involve storing thousands of policies, which results in high space-complexity and poor scaling to additional behaviors. Condensing the archive into a single model while retaining the performance and coverage of the original collection of policies has proved challenging. In this work, we propose using diffusion models to distill the archive into a single generative model over policy parameters. We show that our method achieves a compression ratio of 13x while recovering 98% of the original rewards and 89% of the original coverage. Further, the conditioning mechanism of diffusion models allows for flexibly selecting and sequencing behaviors, including using language. Project website: https://sites.google.com/view/policydiffusion/home 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Grokking of Hierarchical Structure in Vanilla Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18741  
**Abstract:** For humans, language production and comprehension is sensitive to the hierarchical structure of sentences. In natural language processing, past work has questioned how effectively neural sequence models like transformers capture this hierarchical structure when generalizing to structurally novel inputs. We show that transformer language models can learn to generalize hierarchically after training for extremely long periods -- far beyond the point when in-domain accuracy has saturated. We call this phenomenon \emph{structural grokking}. On multiple datasets, structural grokking exhibits inverted U-shaped scaling in model depth: intermediate-depth models generalize better than both very deep and very shallow transformers. When analyzing the relationship between model-internal properties and grokking, we find that optimal depth for grokking can be identified using the tree-structuredness metric of \citet{murty2023projections}. Overall, our work provides strong evidence that, with extended training, vanilla transformers discover and use hierarchical structure. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** GPT4Tools: Teaching Large Language Model to Use Tools via  Self-instruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18752  
**Abstract:** This paper aims to efficiently enable Large Language Models (LLMs) to use multimodal tools. Advanced proprietary LLMs, such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, have shown great potential for tool usage through sophisticated prompt engineering. Nevertheless, these models typically rely on prohibitive computational costs and publicly inaccessible data. To address these challenges, we propose the GPT4Tools based on self-instruct to enable open-source LLMs, such as LLaMA and OPT, to use tools. It generates an instruction-following dataset by prompting an advanced teacher with various multi-modal contexts. By using the Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) optimization, our approach facilitates the open-source LLMs to solve a range of visual problems, including visual comprehension and image generation. Moreover, we provide a benchmark to evaluate the ability of LLMs to use tools, which is performed in both zero-shot and fine-tuning ways. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on various language models, which not only significantly improves the accuracy of invoking seen tools, but also enables the zero-shot capacity for unseen tools. The code and demo are available at https://github.com/StevenGrove/GPT4Tools. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** HiFA: High-fidelity Text-to-3D with Advanced Diffusion Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18766  
**Abstract:** Automatic text-to-3D synthesis has achieved remarkable advancements through the optimization of 3D models. Existing methods commonly rely on pre-trained text-to-image generative models, such as diffusion models, providing scores for 2D renderings of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) and being utilized for optimizing NeRFs. However, these methods often encounter artifacts and inconsistencies across multiple views due to their limited understanding of 3D geometry. To address these limitations, we propose a reformulation of the optimization loss using the diffusion prior. Furthermore, we introduce a novel training approach that unlocks the potential of the diffusion prior. To improve 3D geometry representation, we apply auxiliary depth supervision for NeRF-rendered images and regularize the density field of NeRFs. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method over prior works, resulting in advanced photo-realism and improved multi-view consistency. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Scalable Performance Analysis for Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18786  
**Abstract:** Joint vision-language models have shown great performance over a diverse set of tasks. However, little is known about their limitations, as the high dimensional space learned by these models makes it difficult to identify semantic errors. Recent work has addressed this problem by designing highly controlled probing task benchmarks. Our paper introduces a more scalable solution that relies on already annotated benchmarks. Our method consists of extracting a large set of diverse features from a vision-language benchmark and measuring their correlation with the output of the target model. We confirm previous findings that CLIP behaves like a bag of words model and performs better with nouns and verbs; we also uncover novel insights such as CLIP getting confused by concrete words. Our framework is available at https://github.com/MichiganNLP/Scalable-VLM-Probing and can be used with other multimodal models and benchmarks. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Universality and Limitations of Prompt Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18787  
**Abstract:** Despite the demonstrated empirical efficacy of prompt tuning to adapt a pretrained language model for a new task, the theoretical underpinnings of the difference between "tuning parameters before the input" against "the tuning of model weights" are limited. We thus take one of the first steps to understand the role of soft-prompt tuning for transformer-based architectures. By considering a general purpose architecture, we analyze prompt tuning from the lens of both: universal approximation and limitations with finite-depth fixed-weight pretrained transformers for continuous-valued functions. Our universality result guarantees the existence of a strong transformer with a prompt to approximate any sequence-to-sequence function in the set of Lipschitz functions. The limitations of prompt tuning for limited-depth transformers are first proved by constructing a set of datasets, that cannot be memorized by a prompt of any length for a given single encoder layer. We also provide a lower bound on the required number of tunable prompt parameters and compare the result with the number of parameters required for a low-rank update (based on LoRA) for a single-layer setting. We finally extend our analysis to multi-layer settings by providing sufficient conditions under which the transformer can at best learn datasets from invertible functions only. Our theoretical claims are also corroborated by empirical results. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** DiffSketching: Sketch Control Image Synthesis with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18812  
**Abstract:** Creative sketch is a universal way of visual expression, but translating images from an abstract sketch is very challenging. Traditionally, creating a deep learning model for sketch-to-image synthesis needs to overcome the distorted input sketch without visual details, and requires to collect large-scale sketch-image datasets. We first study this task by using diffusion models. Our model matches sketches through the cross domain constraints, and uses a classifier to guide the image synthesis more accurately. Extensive experiments confirmed that our method can not only be faithful to user's input sketches, but also maintain the diversity and imagination of synthetic image results. Our model can beat GAN-based method in terms of generation quality and human evaluation, and does not rely on massive sketch-image datasets. Additionally, we present applications of our method in image editing and interpolation. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Rethinking Rendering in Generalizable Neural Surface Reconstruction: A  Learning-based Solution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18832  
**Abstract:** Generalizable neural surface reconstruction techniques have attracted great attention in recent years. However, they encounter limitations of low confidence depth distribution and inaccurate surface reasoning due to the oversimplified volume rendering process employed. In this paper, we present Reconstruction TRansformer (ReTR), a novel framework that leverages the transformer architecture to redesign the rendering process, enabling complex photon-particle interaction modeling. It introduces a learnable meta-ray token and utilizes the cross-attention mechanism to simulate the interaction of photons with sampled points and render the observed color. Meanwhile, by operating within a high-dimensional feature space rather than the color space, ReTR mitigates sensitivity to projected colors in source views. Such improvements result in accurate surface assessment with high confidence. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on various datasets, showcasing how our method outperforms the current state-of-the-art approaches in terms of reconstruction quality and generalization ability. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Client: Cross-variable Linear Integrated Enhanced Transformer for  Multivariate Long-Term Time Series Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18838  
**Abstract:** Long-term time series forecasting (LTSF) is a crucial aspect of modern society, playing a pivotal role in facilitating long-term planning and developing early warning systems. While many Transformer-based models have recently been introduced for LTSF, a doubt have been raised regarding the effectiveness of attention modules in capturing cross-time dependencies. In this study, we design a mask-series experiment to validate this assumption and subsequently propose the "Cross-variable Linear Integrated ENhanced Transformer for Multivariate Long-Term Time Series Forecasting" (Client), an advanced model that outperforms both traditional Transformer-based models and linear models. Client employs linear modules to learn trend information and attention modules to capture cross-variable dependencies. Meanwhile, it simplifies the embedding and position encoding layers and replaces the decoder module with a projection layer. Essentially, Client incorporates non-linearity and cross-variable dependencies, which sets it apart from conventional linear models and Transformer-based models. Extensive experiments with nine real-world datasets have confirmed the SOTA performance of Client with the least computation time and memory consumption compared with the previous Transformer-based models. Our code is available at https://github.com/daxin007/Client. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Generate then Select: Open-ended Visual Question Answering Guided by  World Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18842  
**Abstract:** The open-ended Visual Question Answering (VQA) task requires AI models to jointly reason over visual and natural language inputs using world knowledge. Recently, pre-trained Language Models (PLM) such as GPT-3 have been applied to the task and shown to be powerful world knowledge sources. However, these methods suffer from low knowledge coverage caused by PLM bias -- the tendency to generate certain tokens over other tokens regardless of prompt changes, and high dependency on the PLM quality -- only models using GPT-3 can achieve the best result. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** A Federated Channel Modeling System using Generative Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18856  
**Abstract:** The paper proposes a data-driven approach to air-to-ground channel estimation in a millimeter-wave wireless network on an unmanned aerial vehicle. Unlike traditional centralized learning methods that are specific to certain geographical areas and inappropriate for others, we propose a generalized model that uses Federated Learning (FL) for channel estimation and can predict the air-to-ground path loss between a low-altitude platform and a terrestrial terminal. To this end, our proposed FL-based Generative Adversarial Network (FL-GAN) is designed to function as a generative data model that can learn different types of data distributions and generate realistic patterns from the same distributions without requiring prior data analysis before the training phase. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed model, we evaluate its performance using Kullback-Leibler divergence (KL), and Wasserstein distance between the synthetic data distribution generated by the model and the actual data distribution. We also compare the proposed technique with other generative models, such as FL-Variational Autoencoder (FL-VAE) and stand-alone VAE and GAN models. The results of the study show that the synthetic data generated by FL-GAN has the highest similarity in distribution with the real data. This shows the effectiveness of the proposed approach in generating data-driven channel models that can be used in different regions 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Research on Multilingual News Clustering Based on Cross-Language Word  Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18880  
**Abstract:** Classifying the same event reported by different countries is of significant importance for public opinion control and intelligence gathering. Due to the diverse types of news, relying solely on transla-tors would be costly and inefficient, while depending solely on translation systems would incur considerable performance overheads in invoking translation interfaces and storing translated texts. To address this issue, we mainly focus on the clustering problem of cross-lingual news. To be specific, we use a combination of sentence vector representations of news headlines in a mixed semantic space and the topic probability distributions of news content to represent a news article. In the training of cross-lingual models, we employ knowledge distillation techniques to fit two semantic spaces into a mixed semantic space. We abandon traditional static clustering methods like K-Means and AGNES in favor of the incremental clustering algorithm Single-Pass, which we further modify to better suit cross-lingual news clustering scenarios. Our main contributions are as follows: (1) We adopt the English standard BERT as the teacher model and XLM-Roberta as the student model, training a cross-lingual model through knowledge distillation that can represent sentence-level bilingual texts in both Chinese and English. (2) We use the LDA topic model to represent news as a combina-tion of cross-lingual vectors for headlines and topic probability distributions for con-tent, introducing concepts such as topic similarity to address the cross-lingual issue in news content representation. (3) We adapt the Single-Pass clustering algorithm for the news context to make it more applicable. Our optimizations of Single-Pass include ad-justing the distance algorithm between samples and clusters, adding cluster merging operations, and incorporating a news time parameter. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** EmotionGesture: Audio-Driven Diverse Emotional Co-Speech 3D Gesture  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18891  
**Abstract:** Generating vivid and diverse 3D co-speech gestures is crucial for various applications in animating virtual avatars. While most existing methods can generate gestures from audio directly, they usually overlook that emotion is one of the key factors of authentic co-speech gesture generation. In this work, we propose EmotionGesture, a novel framework for synthesizing vivid and diverse emotional co-speech 3D gestures from audio. Considering emotion is often entangled with the rhythmic beat in speech audio, we first develop an Emotion-Beat Mining module (EBM) to extract the emotion and audio beat features as well as model their correlation via a transcript-based visual-rhythm alignment. Then, we propose an initial pose based Spatial-Temporal Prompter (STP) to generate future gestures from the given initial poses. STP effectively models the spatial-temporal correlations between the initial poses and the future gestures, thus producing the spatial-temporal coherent pose prompt. Once we obtain pose prompts, emotion, and audio beat features, we will generate 3D co-speech gestures through a transformer architecture. However, considering the poses of existing datasets often contain jittering effects, this would lead to generating unstable gestures. To address this issue, we propose an effective objective function, dubbed Motion-Smooth Loss. Specifically, we model motion offset to compensate for jittering ground-truth by forcing gestures to be smooth. Last, we present an emotion-conditioned VAE to sample emotion features, enabling us to generate diverse emotional results. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our framework outperforms the state-of-the-art, achieving vivid and diverse emotional co-speech 3D gestures. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** AlphaBlock: Embodied Finetuning for Vision-Language Reasoning in Robot  Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18898  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel framework for learning high-level cognitive capabilities in robot manipulation tasks, such as making a smiley face using building blocks. These tasks often involve complex multi-step reasoning, presenting significant challenges due to the limited paired data connecting human instructions (e.g., making a smiley face) and robot actions (e.g., end-effector movement). Existing approaches relieve this challenge by adopting an open-loop paradigm decomposing high-level instructions into simple sub-task plans, and executing them step-by-step using low-level control models. However, these approaches are short of instant observations in multi-step reasoning, leading to sub-optimal results. To address this issue, we propose to automatically collect a cognitive robot dataset by Large Language Models (LLMs). The resulting dataset AlphaBlock consists of 35 comprehensive high-level tasks of multi-step text plans and paired observation sequences. To enable efficient data acquisition, we employ elaborated multi-round prompt designs that effectively reduce the burden of extensive human involvement. We further propose a closed-loop multi-modal embodied planning model that autoregressively generates plans by taking image observations as input. To facilitate effective learning, we leverage MiniGPT-4 with a frozen visual encoder and LLM, and finetune additional vision adapter and Q-former to enable fine-grained spatial perception for manipulation tasks. We conduct experiments to verify the superiority over existing open and closed-loop methods, and achieve a significant increase in success rate by 21.4% and 14.5% over ChatGPT and GPT-4 based robot tasks. Real-world demos are shown in https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayAzID1_qQk . 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** One-Line-of-Code Data Mollification Improves Optimization of  Likelihood-based Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18900  
**Abstract:** Generative Models (GMs) have attracted considerable attention due to their tremendous success in various domains, such as computer vision where they are capable to generate impressive realistic-looking images. Likelihood-based GMs are attractive due to the possibility to generate new data by a single model evaluation. However, they typically achieve lower sample quality compared to state-of-the-art score-based diffusion models (DMs). This paper provides a significant step in the direction of addressing this limitation. The idea is to borrow one of the strengths of score-based DMs, which is the ability to perform accurate density estimation in low-density regions and to address manifold overfitting by means of data mollification. We connect data mollification through the addition of Gaussian noise to Gaussian homotopy, which is a well-known technique to improve optimization. Data mollification can be implemented by adding one line of code in the optimization loop, and we demonstrate that this provides a boost in generation quality of likelihood-based GMs, without computational overheads. We report results on image data sets with popular likelihood-based GMs, including variants of variational autoencoders and normalizing flows, showing large improvements in FID score. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** atTRACTive: Semi-automatic white matter tract segmentation using active  learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18905  
**Abstract:** Accurately identifying white matter tracts in medical images is essential for various applications, including surgery planning and tract-specific analysis. Supervised machine learning models have reached state-of-the-art solving this task automatically. However, these models are primarily trained on healthy subjects and struggle with strong anatomical aberrations, e.g. caused by brain tumors. This limitation makes them unsuitable for tasks such as preoperative planning, wherefore time-consuming and challenging manual delineation of the target tract is typically employed. We propose semi-automatic entropy-based active learning for quick and intuitive segmentation of white matter tracts from whole-brain tractography consisting of millions of streamlines. The method is evaluated on 21 openly available healthy subjects from the Human Connectome Project and an internal dataset of ten neurosurgical cases. With only a few annotations, the proposed approach enables segmenting tracts on tumor cases comparable to healthy subjects (dice=0.71), while the performance of automatic methods, like TractSeg dropped substantially (dice=0.34) in comparison to healthy subjects. The method is implemented as a prototype named atTRACTive in the freely available software MITK Diffusion. Manual experiments on tumor data showed higher efficiency due to lower segmentation times compared to traditional ROI-based segmentation. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Multitask learning for recognizing stress and depression in social media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18907  
**Abstract:** Stress and depression are prevalent nowadays across people of all ages due to the quick paces of life. People use social media to express their feelings. Thus, social media constitute a valuable form of information for the early detection of stress and depression. Although many research works have been introduced targeting the early recognition of stress and depression, there are still limitations. There have been proposed multi-task learning settings, which use depression and emotion (or figurative language) as the primary and auxiliary tasks respectively. However, although stress is inextricably linked with depression, researchers face these two tasks as two separate tasks. To address these limitations, we present the first study, which exploits two different datasets collected under different conditions, and introduce two multitask learning frameworks, which use depression and stress as the main and auxiliary tasks respectively. Specifically, we use a depression dataset and a stressful dataset including stressful posts from ten subreddits of five domains. In terms of the first approach, each post passes through a shared BERT layer, which is updated by both tasks. Next, two separate BERT encoder layers are exploited, which are updated by each task separately. Regarding the second approach, it consists of shared and task-specific layers weighted by attention fusion networks. We conduct a series of experiments and compare our approaches with existing research initiatives, single-task learning, and transfer learning. Experiments show multiple advantages of our approaches over state-of-the-art ones. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** DEPLAIN: A German Parallel Corpus with Intralingual Translations into  Plain Language for Sentence and Document Simplification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18939  
**Abstract:** Text simplification is an intralingual translation task in which documents, or sentences of a complex source text are simplified for a target audience. The success of automatic text simplification systems is highly dependent on the quality of parallel data used for training and evaluation. To advance sentence simplification and document simplification in German, this paper presents DEplain, a new dataset of parallel, professionally written and manually aligned simplifications in plain German ("plain DE" or in German: "Einfache Sprache"). DEplain consists of a news domain (approx. 500 document pairs, approx. 13k sentence pairs) and a web-domain corpus (approx. 150 aligned documents, approx. 2k aligned sentence pairs). In addition, we are building a web harvester and experimenting with automatic alignment methods to facilitate the integration of non-aligned and to be published parallel documents. Using this approach, we are dynamically increasing the web domain corpus, so it is currently extended to approx. 750 document pairs and approx. 3.5k aligned sentence pairs. We show that using DEplain to train a transformer-based seq2seq text simplification model can achieve promising results. We make available the corpus, the adapted alignment methods for German, the web harvester and the trained models here: https://github.com/rstodden/DEPlain. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Prompt-based Tuning of Transformer Models for Multi-Center Medical Image  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18948  
**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation is a vital healthcare endeavor requiring precise and efficient models for appropriate diagnosis and treatment. Vision transformer-based segmentation models have shown great performance in accomplishing this task. However, to build a powerful backbone, the self-attention block of ViT requires large-scale pre-training data. The present method of modifying pre-trained models entails updating all or some of the backbone parameters. This paper proposes a novel fine-tuning strategy for adapting a pretrained transformer-based segmentation model on data from a new medical center. This method introduces a small number of learnable parameters, termed prompts, into the input space (less than 1\% of model parameters) while keeping the rest of the model parameters frozen. Extensive studies employing data from new unseen medical centers show that prompts-based fine-tuning of medical segmentation models provides excellent performance on the new center data with a negligible drop on the old centers. Additionally, our strategy delivers great accuracy with minimum re-training on new center data, significantly decreasing the computational and time costs of fine-tuning pre-trained models. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Subequivariant Graph Reinforcement Learning in 3D Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18951  
**Abstract:** Learning a shared policy that guides the locomotion of different agents is of core interest in Reinforcement Learning (RL), which leads to the study of morphology-agnostic RL. However, existing benchmarks are highly restrictive in the choice of starting point and target point, constraining the movement of the agents within 2D space. In this work, we propose a novel setup for morphology-agnostic RL, dubbed Subequivariant Graph RL in 3D environments (3D-SGRL). Specifically, we first introduce a new set of more practical yet challenging benchmarks in 3D space that allows the agent to have full Degree-of-Freedoms to explore in arbitrary directions starting from arbitrary configurations. Moreover, to optimize the policy over the enlarged state-action space, we propose to inject geometric symmetry, i.e., subequivariance, into the modeling of the policy and Q-function such that the policy can generalize to all directions, improving exploration efficiency. This goal is achieved by a novel SubEquivariant Transformer (SET) that permits expressive message exchange. Finally, we evaluate the proposed method on the proposed benchmarks, where our method consistently and significantly outperforms existing approaches on single-task, multi-task, and zero-shot generalization scenarios. Extensive ablations are also conducted to verify our design. Code and videos are available on our project page: https://alpc91.github.io/SGRL/. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Hyperbolic Diffusion Embedding and Distance for Hierarchical  Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18962  
**Abstract:** Finding meaningful representations and distances of hierarchical data is important in many fields. This paper presents a new method for hierarchical data embedding and distance. Our method relies on combining diffusion geometry, a central approach to manifold learning, and hyperbolic geometry. Specifically, using diffusion geometry, we build multi-scale densities on the data, aimed to reveal their hierarchical structure, and then embed them into a product of hyperbolic spaces. We show theoretically that our embedding and distance recover the underlying hierarchical structure. In addition, we demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method and its advantages compared to existing methods on graph embedding benchmarks and hierarchical datasets. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Robust Multimodal Failure Detection for Microservice Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18985  
**Abstract:** Proactive failure detection of instances is vitally essential to microservice systems because an instance failure can propagate to the whole system and degrade the system's performance. Over the years, many single-modal (i.e., metrics, logs, or traces) data-based nomaly detection methods have been proposed. However, they tend to miss a large number of failures and generate numerous false alarms because they ignore the correlation of multimodal data. In this work, we propose AnoFusion, an unsupervised failure detection approach, to proactively detect instance failures through multimodal data for microservice systems. It applies a Graph Transformer Network (GTN) to learn the correlation of the heterogeneous multimodal data and integrates a Graph Attention Network (GAT) with Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) to address the challenges introduced by dynamically changing multimodal data. We evaluate the performance of AnoFusion through two datasets, demonstrating that it achieves the F1-score of 0.857 and 0.922, respectively, outperforming the state-of-the-art failure detection approaches. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** GPT Models in Construction Industry: Opportunities, Limitations, and a  Use Case Validation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18997  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models(LLMs) trained on large data sets came into prominence in 2018 after Google introduced BERT. Subsequently, different LLMs such as GPT models from OpenAI have been released. These models perform well on diverse tasks and have been gaining widespread applications in fields such as business and education. However, little is known about the opportunities and challenges of using LLMs in the construction industry. Thus, this study aims to assess GPT models in the construction industry. A critical review, expert discussion and case study validation are employed to achieve the study objectives. The findings revealed opportunities for GPT models throughout the project lifecycle. The challenges of leveraging GPT models are highlighted and a use case prototype is developed for materials selection and optimization. The findings of the study would be of benefit to researchers, practitioners and stakeholders, as it presents research vistas for LLMs in the construction industry. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** StyleAvatar3D: Leveraging Image-Text Diffusion Models for High-Fidelity  3D Avatar Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19012  
**Abstract:** The recent advancements in image-text diffusion models have stimulated research interest in large-scale 3D generative models. Nevertheless, the limited availability of diverse 3D resources presents significant challenges to learning. In this paper, we present a novel method for generating high-quality, stylized 3D avatars that utilizes pre-trained image-text diffusion models for data generation and a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)-based 3D generation network for training. Our method leverages the comprehensive priors of appearance and geometry offered by image-text diffusion models to generate multi-view images of avatars in various styles. During data generation, we employ poses extracted from existing 3D models to guide the generation of multi-view images. To address the misalignment between poses and images in data, we investigate view-specific prompts and develop a coarse-to-fine discriminator for GAN training. We also delve into attribute-related prompts to increase the diversity of the generated avatars. Additionally, we develop a latent diffusion model within the style space of StyleGAN to enable the generation of avatars based on image inputs. Our approach demonstrates superior performance over current state-of-the-art methods in terms of visual quality and diversity of the produced avatars. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** A Heat Diffusion Perspective on Geodesic Preserving Dimensionality  Reduction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19043  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based manifold learning methods have proven useful in representation learning and dimensionality reduction of modern high dimensional, high throughput, noisy datasets. Such datasets are especially present in fields like biology and physics. While it is thought that these methods preserve underlying manifold structure of data by learning a proxy for geodesic distances, no specific theoretical links have been established. Here, we establish such a link via results in Riemannian geometry explicitly connecting heat diffusion to manifold distances. In this process, we also formulate a more general heat kernel based manifold embedding method that we call heat geodesic embeddings. This novel perspective makes clearer the choices available in manifold learning and denoising. Results show that our method outperforms existing state of the art in preserving ground truth manifold distances, and preserving cluster structure in toy datasets. We also showcase our method on single cell RNA-sequencing datasets with both continuum and cluster structure, where our method enables interpolation of withheld timepoints of data. Finally, we show that parameters of our more general method can be configured to give results similar to PHATE (a state-of-the-art diffusion based manifold learning method) as well as SNE (an attraction/repulsion neighborhood based method that forms the basis of t-SNE). 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Get Out of the Nest! Drivers of Social Influence in the  #TwitterMigration to Mastodon  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19056  
**Abstract:** The migration of Twitter users to Mastodon following Elon Musk's acquisition presents a unique opportunity to study collective behavior and gain insights into the drivers of coordinated behavior in online media. We analyzed the social network and the public conversations of about 75,000 migrated users and observed that the temporal trace of their migrations is compatible with a phenomenon of social influence, as described by a compartmental epidemic model of information diffusion. Drawing from prior research on behavioral change, we delved into the factors that account for variations across different Twitter communities in the effectiveness of the spreading of the influence to migrate. Communities in which the influence process unfolded more rapidly exhibit lower density of social connections, higher levels of signaled commitment to migrating, and more emphasis on shared identity and exchange of factual knowledge in the community discussion. These factors account collectively for 57% of the variance in the observed data. Our results highlight the joint importance of network structure, commitment, and psycho-linguistic aspects of social interactions in describing grassroots collective action, and contribute to deepen our understanding of the mechanisms driving processes of behavior change of online groups. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Template-free Articulated Neural Point Clouds for Reposable View  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19065  
**Abstract:** Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) achieve remarkable visual quality when synthesizing novel views of time-evolving 3D scenes. However, the common reliance on backward deformation fields makes reanimation of the captured object poses challenging. Moreover, the state of the art dynamic models are often limited by low visual fidelity, long reconstruction time or specificity to narrow application domains. In this paper, we present a novel method utilizing a point-based representation and Linear Blend Skinning (LBS) to jointly learn a Dynamic NeRF and an associated skeletal model from even sparse multi-view video. Our forward-warping approach achieves state-of-the-art visual fidelity when synthesizing novel views and poses while significantly reducing the necessary learning time when compared to existing work. We demonstrate the versatility of our representation on a variety of articulated objects from common datasets and obtain reposable 3D reconstructions without the need of object-specific skeletal templates. Code will be made available at https://github.com/lukasuz/Articulated-Point-NeRF. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Nested Diffusion Processes for Anytime Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19066  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are the current state-of-the-art in image generation, synthesizing high-quality images by breaking down the generation process into many fine-grained denoising steps. Despite their good performance, diffusion models are computationally expensive, requiring many neural function evaluations (NFEs). In this work, we propose an anytime diffusion-based method that can generate viable images when stopped at arbitrary times before completion. Using existing pretrained diffusion models, we show that the generation scheme can be recomposed as two nested diffusion processes, enabling fast iterative refinement of a generated image. We use this Nested Diffusion approach to peek into the generation process and enable flexible scheduling based on the instantaneous preference of the user. In experiments on ImageNet and Stable Diffusion-based text-to-image generation, we show, both qualitatively and quantitatively, that our method's intermediate generation quality greatly exceeds that of the original diffusion model, while the final slow generation result remains comparable. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** DiffMatch: Diffusion Model for Dense Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19094  
**Abstract:** The objective for establishing dense correspondence between paired images consists of two terms: a data term and a prior term. While conventional techniques focused on defining hand-designed prior terms, which are difficult to formulate, recent approaches have focused on learning the data term with deep neural networks without explicitly modeling the prior, assuming that the model itself has the capacity to learn an optimal prior from a large-scale dataset. The performance improvement was obvious, however, they often fail to address inherent ambiguities of matching, such as textureless regions, repetitive patterns, and large displacements. To address this, we propose DiffMatch, a novel conditional diffusion-based framework designed to explicitly model both the data and prior terms. Unlike previous approaches, this is accomplished by leveraging a conditional denoising diffusion model. DiffMatch consists of two main components: conditional denoising diffusion module and cost injection module. We stabilize the training process and reduce memory usage with a stage-wise training strategy. Furthermore, to boost performance, we introduce an inference technique that finds a better path to the accurate matching field. Our experimental results demonstrate significant performance improvements of our method over existing approaches, and the ablation studies validate our design choices along with the effectiveness of each component. Project page is available at https://ku-cvlab.github.io/DiffMatch/. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Does Conceptual Representation Require Embodiment? Insights From Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19103  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in large language models (LLM) have the potential to shed light on the debate regarding the extent to which knowledge representation requires the grounding of embodied experience. Despite learning from limited modalities (e.g., text for GPT-3.5, and text+image for GPT-4), LLMs have nevertheless demonstrated human-like behaviors in various psychology tasks, which may provide an alternative interpretation of the acquisition of conceptual knowledge. We compared lexical conceptual representations between humans and ChatGPT (GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) on subjective ratings of various lexical conceptual features or dimensions (e.g., emotional arousal, concreteness, haptic, etc.). The results show that both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 were strongly correlated with humans in some abstract dimensions, such as emotion and salience. In dimensions related to sensory and motor domains, GPT-3.5 shows weaker correlations while GPT-4 has made significant progress compared to GPT-3.5. Still, GPT-4 struggles to fully capture motor aspects of conceptual knowledge such as actions with foot/leg, mouth/throat, and torso. Moreover, we found that GPT-4's progress can largely be associated with its training in the visual domain. Certain aspects of conceptual representation appear to exhibit a degree of independence from sensory capacities, but others seem to necessitate them. Our findings provide insights into the complexities of knowledge representation from diverse perspectives and highlights the potential influence of embodied experience in shaping language and cognition. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** DisCLIP: Open-Vocabulary Referring Expression Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19108  
**Abstract:** Referring Expressions Generation (REG) aims to produce textual descriptions that unambiguously identifies specific objects within a visual scene. Traditionally, this has been achieved through supervised learning methods, which perform well on specific data distributions but often struggle to generalize to new images and concepts. To address this issue, we present a novel approach for REG, named DisCLIP, short for discriminative CLIP. We build on CLIP, a large-scale visual-semantic model, to guide an LLM to generate a contextual description of a target concept in an image while avoiding other distracting concepts. Notably, this optimization happens at inference time and does not require additional training or tuning of learned parameters. We measure the quality of the generated text by evaluating the capability of a receiver model to accurately identify the described object within the scene. To achieve this, we use a frozen zero-shot comprehension module as a critique of our generated referring expressions. We evaluate DisCLIP on multiple referring expression benchmarks through human evaluation and show that it significantly outperforms previous methods on out-of-domain datasets. Our results highlight the potential of using pre-trained visual-semantic models for generating high-quality contextual descriptions. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** GAN-MPC: Training Model Predictive Controllers with Parameterized Cost  Functions using Demonstrations from Non-identical Experts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19111  
**Abstract:** Model predictive control (MPC) is a popular approach for trajectory optimization in practical robotics applications. MPC policies can optimize trajectory parameters under kinodynamic and safety constraints and provide guarantees on safety, optimality, generalizability, interpretability, and explainability. However, some behaviors are complex and it is difficult to hand-craft an MPC objective function. A special class of MPC policies called Learnable-MPC addresses this difficulty using imitation learning from expert demonstrations. However, they require the demonstrator and the imitator agents to be identical which is hard to satisfy in many real world applications of robotics. In this paper, we address the practical problem of training Learnable-MPC policies when the demonstrator and the imitator do not share the same dynamics and their state spaces may have a partial overlap. We propose a novel approach that uses a generative adversarial network (GAN) to minimize the Jensen-Shannon divergence between the state-trajectory distributions of the demonstrator and the imitator. We evaluate our approach on a variety of simulated robotics tasks of DeepMind Control suite and demonstrate the efficacy of our approach at learning the demonstrator's behavior without having to copy their actions. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Encouraging Divergent Thinking in Large Language Models through  Multi-Agent Debate  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19118  
**Abstract:** Modern large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have shown remarkable performance on general language tasks but still struggle on complex reasoning tasks, which drives the research on cognitive behaviors of LLMs to explore human-like problem-solving strategies. Along this direction, one representative strategy is self-reflection, which asks an LLM to refine the solution with the feedback generated by itself iteratively. However, our study shows that such reflection-style methods suffer from the Degeneration-of-Thought (DoT) problem: once the LLM has established confidence in its solutions, it is unable to generate novel thoughts later through reflection even if its initial stance is incorrect. To address the DoT problem, we propose a Multi-Agent Debate (MAD) framework, in which multiple agents express their arguments in the state of "tit for tat" and a judge manages the debate process to obtain a final solution. Clearly, our MAD framework encourages divergent thinking in LLMs which would be helpful for tasks that require deep levels of contemplation. Experiment results on two challenging datasets, commonsense machine translation and counter-intuitive arithmetic reasoning, demonstrate the effectiveness of our MAD framework. Extensive analyses suggest that the adaptive break of debate and the modest level of "tit for tat" state are required for MAD to obtain good performance. Moreover, we find that LLMs might not be a fair judge if different LLMs are used for agents. Codes: https://github.com/Skytliang/Multi-Agents-Debate 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** Calliffusion: Chinese Calligraphy Generation and Style Transfer with  Diffusion Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19124  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose Calliffusion, a system for generating high-quality Chinese calligraphy using diffusion models. Our model architecture is based on DDPM (Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models), and it is capable of generating common characters in five different scripts and mimicking the styles of famous calligraphers. Experiments demonstrate that our model can generate calligraphy that is difficult to distinguish from real artworks and that our controls for characters, scripts, and styles are effective. Moreover, we demonstrate one-shot transfer learning, using LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation) to transfer Chinese calligraphy art styles to unseen characters and even out-of-domain symbols such as English letters and digits. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** Hierarchical Graph Generation with $K^2$-trees  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19125  
**Abstract:** Generating graphs from a target distribution is a significant challenge across many domains, including drug discovery and social network analysis. In this work, we introduce a novel graph generation method leveraging $K^2$-tree representation which was originally designed for lossless graph compression. Our motivation stems from the ability of the $K^2$-trees to enable compact generation while concurrently capturing the inherent hierarchical structure of a graph. In addition, we make further contributions by (1) presenting a sequential $K^2$-tree representation that incorporates pruning, flattening, and tokenization processes and (2) introducing a Transformer-based architecture designed to generate the sequence by incorporating a specialized tree positional encoding scheme. Finally, we extensively evaluate our algorithm on four general and two molecular graph datasets to confirm its superiority for graph generation. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Uniform relations between the Gauss-Legendre nodes and weights  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19128  
**Abstract:** Three different relations between the Legendre nodes and weights are presented which, unlike the circle and trapezoid theorems for Gauss-Legendre quadrature, hold uniformly in the whole interval of orthogonality $(-1,1)$. These properties are supported by strong asymptotic evidence.The study of these results is motivated by the role they play in certain finite difference schemes used in the discretization of the angular Fokker-Planck diffusion operator. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** Key-Value Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19129  
**Abstract:** Transformers have emerged as the prevailing standard solution for various AI tasks, including computer vision and natural language processing. The widely adopted Query, Key, and Value formulation (QKV) has played a significant role in this. Nevertheless, no research has examined the essentiality of these three components for transformer performance. Therefore, we conducted an evaluation of the key-value formulation (KV), which generates symmetric attention maps, along with an asymmetric version that incorporates a 2D positional encoding into the attention matrix. Remarkably, this transformer requires fewer parameters and computation than the original one. Through experiments encompassing three task types -- synthetics (such as reversing or sorting a list), vision (mnist or cifar classification), and NLP (character generation and translation) -- we discovered that the KV transformer occasionally outperforms the QKV transformer. However, it also exhibits instances of underperformance compared to QKV, making it challenging to draw a definitive conclusion. Nonetheless, we consider the reported results to be encouraging and anticipate that they may pave the way for more efficient transformers in the future. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** Adaptation of Tongue Ultrasound-Based Silent Speech Interfaces Using  Spatial Transformer Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19130  
**Abstract:** Thanks to the latest deep learning algorithms, silent speech interfaces (SSI) are now able to synthesize intelligible speech from articulatory movement data under certain conditions. However, the resulting models are rather speaker-specific, making a quick switch between users troublesome. Even for the same speaker, these models perform poorly cross-session, i.e. after dismounting and re-mounting the recording equipment. To aid quick speaker and session adaptation of ultrasound tongue imaging-based SSI models, we extend our deep networks with a spatial transformer network (STN) module, capable of performing an affine transformation on the input images. Although the STN part takes up only about 10\% of the network, our experiments show that adapting just the STN module might allow to reduce MSE by 88\% on the average, compared to retraining the whole network. The improvement is even larger (around 92\%) when adapting the network to different recording sessions from the same speaker. 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** Mitigating Label Biases for In-context Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19148  
**Abstract:** Various design settings for in-context learning (ICL), such as the choice and order of the in-context examples, can bias the model's predictions. While many studies discuss these design choices, there have been few systematic investigations into categorizing them and mitigating their impact. In this work, we define a typology for three types of label biases in ICL for text classification: vanilla-label bias, context-label bias, and domain-label bias (which we conceptualize and detect for the first time). Our analysis demonstrates that prior label bias calibration methods fall short of addressing all three types of biases. Specifically, domain-label bias restricts LLMs to random-level performance on many tasks regardless of the choice of in-context examples. To mitigate the effect of these biases, we propose a simple bias calibration method that estimates a language model's label bias using random in-domain words from the task corpus. After controlling for this estimated bias when making predictions, our novel domain-context calibration significantly improves the ICL performance of GPT-J and GPT-3 on a wide range of tasks. The gain is substantial on tasks with large domain-label bias (up to 37% in Macro-F1). Furthermore, our results generalize to models with different scales, pretraining methods, and manually-designed task instructions, showing the prevalence of label biases in ICL. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** Video ControlNet: Towards Temporally Consistent Synthetic-to-Real Video  Translation Using Conditional Image Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19193  
**Abstract:** In this study, we present an efficient and effective approach for achieving temporally consistent synthetic-to-real video translation in videos of varying lengths. Our method leverages off-the-shelf conditional image diffusion models, allowing us to perform multiple synthetic-to-real image generations in parallel. By utilizing the available optical flow information from the synthetic videos, our approach seamlessly enforces temporal consistency among corresponding pixels across frames. This is achieved through joint noise optimization, effectively minimizing spatial and temporal discrepancies. To the best of our knowledge, our proposed method is the first to accomplish diverse and temporally consistent synthetic-to-real video translation using conditional image diffusion models. Furthermore, our approach does not require any training or fine-tuning of the diffusion models. Extensive experiments conducted on various benchmarks for synthetic-to-real video translation demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Finally, we show that our method outperforms other baseline methods in terms of both temporal consistency and visual quality. 

**ID:** 94  
**Title:** PanoGen: Text-Conditioned Panoramic Environment Generation for  Vision-and-Language Navigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19195  
**Abstract:** Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) requires the agent to follow language instructions to navigate through 3D environments. One main challenge in VLN is the limited availability of photorealistic training environments, which makes it hard to generalize to new and unseen environments. To address this problem, we propose PanoGen, a generation method that can potentially create an infinite number of diverse panoramic environments conditioned on text. Specifically, we collect room descriptions by captioning the room images in existing Matterport3D environments, and leverage a state-of-the-art text-to-image diffusion model to generate the new panoramic environments. We use recursive outpainting over the generated images to create consistent 360-degree panorama views. Our new panoramic environments share similar semantic information with the original environments by conditioning on text descriptions, which ensures the co-occurrence of objects in the panorama follows human intuition, and creates enough diversity in room appearance and layout with image outpainting. Lastly, we explore two ways of utilizing PanoGen in VLN pre-training and fine-tuning. We generate instructions for paths in our PanoGen environments with a speaker built on a pre-trained vision-and-language model for VLN pre-training, and augment the visual observation with our panoramic environments during agents' fine-tuning to avoid overfitting to seen environments. Empirically, learning with our PanoGen environments achieves the new state-of-the-art on the Room-to-Room, Room-for-Room, and CVDN datasets. Pre-training with our PanoGen speaker data is especially effective for CVDN, which has under-specified instructions and needs commonsense knowledge. Lastly, we show that the agent can benefit from training with more generated panoramic environments, suggesting promising results for scaling up the PanoGen environments. 

**ID:** 95  
**Title:** A boundary-oriented reduced Schwarz domain decomposition technique for  parametric advection-diffusion problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19199  
**Abstract:** We present in this paper the results of a research motivated by the need of a very fast solution of thermal flow in solar receivers. These receivers are composed by a large number of parallel pipes with the same geometry. We have introduced a reduced Schwarz algorithm that skips the computation in a large part of the pipes. The computation of the temperature in the skep domain is replaced by a reduced mapping that provides the transmission conditions. This reduced mapping is computed in an off-line stage. We have performed an error analysis of the reduced Schwarz algorithm, proving that the error is bounded in terms of the linearly decreasing error of the standard Schwarz algorithm, plus the error stemming from the reduction of the trace mapping. The last error is asymptotically dominant in the Schwarz iterative process. We obtain $L^2$ errors below $2\%$ with relatively small overlapping lengths. 

**ID:** 96  
**Title:** DRF: Boosting Radiance Fields from Sparse Inputs with Monocular Depth  Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19201  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRF) shows powerful performance in novel view synthesis and 3D geometry reconstruction, but it suffers from critical performance degradation when the number of known viewpoints is drastically reduced. Existing works attempt to overcome this problem by employing external priors, but their success is limited to certain types of scenes or datasets. Employing monocular depth estimation (MDE) networks, pretrained on large-scale RGB-D datasets, with powerful generalization capability would be a key to solving this problem: however, using MDE in conjunction with NeRF comes with a new set of challenges due to various ambiguity problems exhibited by monocular depths. In this light, we propose a novel framework, dubbed D\"aRF, that achieves robust NeRF reconstruction with a handful of real-world images by combining the strengths of NeRF and monocular depth estimation through online complementary training. Our framework imposes the MDE network's powerful geometry prior to NeRF representation at both seen and unseen viewpoints to enhance its robustness and coherence. In addition, we overcome the ambiguity problems of monocular depths through patch-wise scale-shift fitting and geometry distillation, which adapts the MDE network to produce depths aligned accurately with NeRF geometry. Experiments show our framework achieves state-of-the-art results both quantitatively and qualitatively, demonstrating consistent and reliable performance in both indoor and outdoor real-world datasets. Project page is available at https://ku-cvlab.github.io/DaRF/. 

**ID:** 97  
**Title:** AMatFormer: Efficient Feature Matching via Anchor Matching Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19205  
**Abstract:** Learning based feature matching methods have been commonly studied in recent years. The core issue for learning feature matching is to how to learn (1) discriminative representations for feature points (or regions) within each intra-image and (2) consensus representations for feature points across inter-images. Recently, self- and cross-attention models have been exploited to address this issue. However, in many scenes, features are coming with large-scale, redundant and outliers contaminated. Previous self-/cross-attention models generally conduct message passing on all primal features which thus lead to redundant learning and high computational cost. To mitigate limitations, inspired by recent seed matching methods, in this paper, we propose a novel efficient Anchor Matching Transformer (AMatFormer) for the feature matching problem. AMatFormer has two main aspects: First, it mainly conducts self-/cross-attention on some anchor features and leverages these anchor features as message bottleneck to learn the representations for all primal features. Thus, it can be implemented efficiently and compactly. Second, AMatFormer adopts a shared FFN module to further embed the features of two images into the common domain and thus learn the consensus feature representations for the matching problem. Experiments on several benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed AMatFormer matching approach. 

**ID:** 98  
**Title:** Ambient Diffusion: Learning Clean Distributions from Corrupted Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19256  
**Abstract:** We present the first diffusion-based framework that can learn an unknown distribution using only highly-corrupted samples. This problem arises in scientific applications where access to uncorrupted samples is impossible or expensive to acquire. Another benefit of our approach is the ability to train generative models that are less likely to memorize individual training samples since they never observe clean training data. Our main idea is to introduce additional measurement distortion during the diffusion process and require the model to predict the original corrupted image from the further corrupted image. We prove that our method leads to models that learn the conditional expectation of the full uncorrupted image given this additional measurement corruption. This holds for any corruption process that satisfies some technical conditions (and in particular includes inpainting and compressed sensing). We train models on standard benchmarks (CelebA, CIFAR-10 and AFHQ) and show that we can learn the distribution even when all the training samples have $90\%$ of their pixels missing. We also show that we can finetune foundation models on small corrupted datasets (e.g. MRI scans with block corruptions) and learn the clean distribution without memorizing the training set. 

**ID:** 99  
**Title:** Jointly Reparametrized Multi-Layer Adaptation for Efficient and Private  Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19264  
**Abstract:** Efficient finetuning of pretrained language transformers is becoming increasingly prevalent for solving natural language processing tasks. While effective, it can still require a large number of tunable parameters. This can be a drawback for low-resource applications and training with differential-privacy constraints, where excessive noise may be introduced during finetuning. To this end, we propose a novel language transformer finetuning strategy that introduces task-specific parameters in multiple transformer layers. These parameters are derived from fixed random projections of a single trainable vector, enabling finetuning with significantly fewer parameters while maintaining performance. We achieve within 5% of full finetuning performance on GLUE tasks with as few as 4,100 parameters per task, outperforming other parameter-efficient finetuning approaches that use a similar number of per-task parameters. Besides, the random projections can be precomputed at inference, avoiding additional computational latency. All these make our method particularly appealing for low-resource applications. Finally, our method achieves the best or comparable utility compared to several recent finetuning methods when training with the same privacy constraints, underscoring its effectiveness and potential real-world impact. 

**ID:** 100  
**Title:** A Synergistic Framework Leveraging Autoencoders and Generative  Adversarial Networks for the Synthesis of Computational Fluid Dynamics  Results in Aerofoil Aerodynamics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18386  
**Abstract:** In the realm of computational fluid dynamics (CFD), accurate prediction of aerodynamic behaviour plays a pivotal role in aerofoil design and optimization. This study proposes a novel approach that synergistically combines autoencoders and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) for the purpose of generating CFD results. Our innovative framework harnesses the intrinsic capabilities of autoencoders to encode aerofoil geometries into a compressed and informative 20-length vector representation. Subsequently, a conditional GAN network adeptly translates this vector into precise pressure-distribution plots, accounting for fixed wind velocity, angle of attack, and turbulence level specifications. The training process utilizes a meticulously curated dataset acquired from JavaFoil software, encompassing a comprehensive range of aerofoil geometries. The proposed approach exhibits profound potential in reducing the time and costs associated with aerodynamic prediction, enabling efficient evaluation of aerofoil performance. The findings contribute to the advancement of computational techniques in fluid dynamics and pave the way for enhanced design and optimization processes in aerodynamics. 

**ID:** 101  
**Title:** Conditional Diffusion Models for Semantic 3D Medical Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18453  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces Med-DDPM, an innovative solution using diffusion models for semantic 3D medical image synthesis, addressing the prevalent issues in medical imaging such as data scarcity, inconsistent acquisition methods, and privacy concerns. Experimental evidence illustrates that diffusion models surpass Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) in stability and performance, generating high-quality, realistic 3D medical images. The distinct feature of Med-DDPM is its use of semantic conditioning for the diffusion model in 3D image synthesis. By controlling the generation process through pixel-level mask labels, it facilitates the creation of realistic medical images. Empirical evaluations underscore the superior performance of Med-DDPM over GAN techniques in metrics such as accuracy, stability, and versatility. Furthermore, Med-DDPM outperforms traditional augmentation techniques and synthetic GAN images in enhancing the accuracy of segmentation models. It addresses challenges such as insufficient datasets, lack of annotated data, and class imbalance. Noting the limitations of the Frechet inception distance (FID) metric, we introduce a histogram-equalized FID metric for effective performance evaluation. In summary, Med-DDPM, by utilizing diffusion models, signifies a crucial step forward in the domain of high-resolution semantic 3D medical image synthesis, transcending the limitations of GANs and data constraints. This method paves the way for a promising solution in medical imaging, primarily for data augmentation and anonymization, thus contributing significantly to the field. 

**ID:** 102  
**Title:** Perturbation-Assisted Sample Synthesis: A Novel Approach for Uncertainty  Quantification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18671  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a novel generator called Perturbation-Assisted Sample Synthesis (PASS), designed for drawing reliable conclusions from complex data, especially when using advanced modeling techniques like deep neural networks. PASS utilizes perturbation to generate synthetic data that closely mirrors the distribution of raw data, encompassing numerical and unstructured data types such as gene expression, images, and text. By estimating the data-generating distribution and leveraging large pre-trained generative models, PASS enhances estimation accuracy, providing an estimated distribution of any statistic through Monte Carlo experiments. Building on PASS, we propose a generative inference framework called Perturbation-Assisted Inference (PAI), which offers a statistical guarantee of validity. In pivotal inference, PAI enables accurate conclusions without knowing a pivotal's distribution as in simulations, even with limited data. In non-pivotal situations, we train PASS using an independent holdout sample, resulting in credible conclusions. To showcase PAI's capability in tackling complex problems, we highlight its applications in three domains: image synthesis inference, sentiment word inference, and multimodal inference via stable diffusion. 

**ID:** 103  
**Title:** Dual Transformer Decoder based Features Fusion Network for Automated  Audio Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18753  
**Abstract:** Automated audio captioning (AAC) which generates textual descriptions of audio content. Existing AAC models achieve good results but only use the high-dimensional representation of the encoder. There is always insufficient information learning of high-dimensional methods owing to high-dimensional representations having a large amount of information. In this paper, a new encoder-decoder model called the Low- and High-Dimensional Feature Fusion (LHDFF) is proposed. LHDFF uses a new PANNs encoder called Residual PANNs (RPANNs) to fuse low- and high-dimensional features. Low-dimensional features contain limited information about specific audio scenes. The fusion of low- and high-dimensional features can improve model performance by repeatedly emphasizing specific audio scene information. To fully exploit the fused features, LHDFF uses a dual transformer decoder structure to generate captions in parallel. Experimental results show that LHDFF outperforms existing audio captioning models. 

**ID:** 104  
**Title:** Evaluating the feasibility of using Generative Models to generate Chest  X-Ray Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.18927  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we explore the feasibility of using generative models, specifically Progressive Growing GANs (PG-GANs) and Stable Diffusion fine-tuning, to generate synthetic chest X-ray images for medical diagnosis purposes. Due to ethical concerns, obtaining sufficient medical data for machine learning is a challenge, which our approach aims to address by synthesising more data. We utilised the Chest X-ray 14 dataset for our experiments and evaluated the performance of our models through qualitative and quantitative analysis. Our results show that the generated images are visually convincing and can be used to improve the accuracy of classification models. However, further work is needed to address issues such as overfitting and the limited availability of real data for training and testing. The potential of our approach to contribute to more effective medical diagnosis through deep learning is promising, and we believe that continued advancements in image generation technology will lead to even more promising results in the future. 

**ID:** 105  
**Title:** Predicting Preferred Dialogue-to-Background Loudness Difference in  Dialogue-Separated Audio  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19100  
**Abstract:** Dialogue Enhancement (DE) enables the rebalancing of dialogue and background sounds to fit personal preferences and needs in the context of broadcast audio. When individual audio stems are unavailable from production, Dialogue Separation (DS) can be applied to the final audio mixture to obtain estimates of these stems. This work focuses on Preferred Loudness Differences (PLDs) between dialogue and background sounds. While previous studies determined the PLD through a listening test employing original stems from production, stems estimated by DS are used in the present study. In addition, a larger variety of signal classes is considered. PLDs vary substantially across individuals (average interquartile range: 5.7 LU). Despite this variability, PLDs are found to be highly dependent on the signal type under consideration, and it is shown that median PLDs can be predicted using objective intelligibility metrics. Two existing baseline prediction methods - intended for use with original stems - displayed a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 7.5 LU and 5 LU, respectively. A modified baseline (MAE: 3.2 LU) and an alternative approach (MAE: 2.5 LU) are proposed. Results support the viability of processing final broadcast mixtures with DS and offering an alternative remixing that accounts for median PLDs. 

**ID:** 106  
**Title:** Conditional score-based diffusion models for Bayesian inference in  infinite dimensions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.19147  
**Abstract:** Since their first introduction, score-based diffusion models (SDMs) have been successfully applied to solve a variety of linear inverse problems in finite-dimensional vector spaces due to their ability to efficiently approximate the posterior distribution. However, using SDMs for inverse problems in infinite-dimensional function spaces has only been addressed recently and by learning the unconditional score. While this approach has some advantages, depending on the specific inverse problem at hand, in order to sample from the conditional distribution it needs to incorporate the information from the observed data with a proximal optimization step, solving an optimization problem numerous times. This may not be feasible in inverse problems with computationally costly forward operators. To address these limitations, in this work we propose a method to learn the posterior distribution in infinite-dimensional Bayesian linear inverse problems using amortized conditional SDMs. In particular, we prove that the conditional denoising estimator is a consistent estimator of the conditional score in infinite dimensions. We show that the extension of SDMs to the conditional setting requires some care because the conditional score typically blows up for small times contrarily to the unconditional score. We also discuss the robustness of the learned distribution against perturbations of the observations. We conclude by presenting numerical examples that validate our approach and provide additional insights. 

