**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Entity Tracking in Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02363  
**Abstract:** Keeping track of how states and relations of entities change as a text or dialog unfolds is a key prerequisite to discourse understanding. Despite this fact, there have been few systematic investigations into the ability of large language models (LLMs) to track discourse entities. In this work, we present a task to probe to what extent a language model can infer the final state of an entity given an English description of the initial state and a series of state-changing operations. We use this task to first investigate whether Flan-T5, GPT-3 and GPT-3.5 can track the state of entities, and find that only GPT-3.5 models, which have been pretrained on large amounts of code, exhibit this ability. We then investigate whether smaller models pretrained primarily on text can learn to track entities, through finetuning T5 on several training/evaluation splits. While performance degrades for more complex splits, we find that even for splits with almost no lexical overlap between training and evaluation, a finetuned model can often perform non-trivial entity tracking. Taken together, these results suggest that language models can learn to track entities but pretraining on large text corpora alone does not make this capacity surface. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Spectral cyclicality of networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02371  
**Abstract:** We introduce the spectral influence and spectral cyclicality based on the largest eigenvalue of a graph adjacency matrix, two novel concepts of centrality capturing diffusion and interdependence from a local and a global point of view respectively. We define a new clustering algorithm to distinguish communities with high cyclicality and interdependence, allowing overlapping, and we conclude our study with an application to the input-output analysis in the case of the Moroccan economy. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** A Novel Plagiarism Detection Approach Combining BERT-based Word  Embedding, Attention-based LSTMs and an Improved Differential Evolution  Algorithm  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02374  
**Abstract:** Detecting plagiarism involves finding similar items in two different sources. In this article, we propose a novel method for detecting plagiarism that is based on attention mechanism-based long short-term memory (LSTM) and bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) word embedding, enhanced with optimized differential evolution (DE) method for pre-training and a focal loss function for training. BERT could be included in a downstream task and fine-tuned as a task-specific BERT can be included in a downstream task and fine-tuned as a task-specific structure, while the trained BERT model is capable of detecting various linguistic characteristics. Unbalanced classification is one of the primary issues with plagiarism detection. We suggest a focal loss-based training technique that carefully learns minority class instances to solve this. Another issue that we tackle is the training phase itself, which typically employs gradient-based methods like back-propagation for the learning process and thus suffers from some drawbacks, including sensitivity to initialization. To initiate the BP process, we suggest a novel DE algorithm that makes use of a clustering-based mutation operator. Here, a winning cluster is identified for the current DE population, and a fresh updating method is used to produce potential answers. We evaluate our proposed approach on three benchmark datasets ( MSRP, SNLI, and SemEval2014) and demonstrate that it performs well when compared to both conventional and population-based methods. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Approximating CKY with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02386  
**Abstract:** We investigate the ability of transformer models to approximate the CKY algorithm, using them to directly predict a parse and thus avoid the CKY algorithm's cubic dependence on sentence length. We find that on standard constituency parsing benchmarks this approach achieves competitive or better performance than comparable parsers that make use of CKY, while being faster. We also evaluate the viability of this approach for parsing under random PCFGs. Here we find that performance declines as the grammar becomes more ambiguous, suggesting that the transformer is not fully capturing the CKY computation. However, we also find that incorporating additional inductive bias is helpful, and we propose a novel approach that makes use of gradients with respect to chart representations in predicting the parse, in analogy with the CKY algorithm being the subgradient of a partition function variant with respect to the chart. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Plan, Eliminate, and Track -- Language Models are Good Teachers for  Embodied Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02412  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained large language models (LLMs) capture procedural knowledge about the world. Recent work has leveraged LLM's ability to generate abstract plans to simplify challenging control tasks, either by action scoring, or action modeling (fine-tuning). However, the transformer architecture inherits several constraints that make it difficult for the LLM to directly serve as the agent: e.g. limited input lengths, fine-tuning inefficiency, bias from pre-training, and incompatibility with non-text environments. To maintain compatibility with a low-level trainable actor, we propose to instead use the knowledge in LLMs to simplify the control problem, rather than solving it. We propose the Plan, Eliminate, and Track (PET) framework. The Plan module translates a task description into a list of high-level sub-tasks. The Eliminate module masks out irrelevant objects and receptacles from the observation for the current sub-task. Finally, the Track module determines whether the agent has accomplished each sub-task. On the AlfWorld instruction following benchmark, the PET framework leads to a significant 15% improvement over SOTA for generalization to human goal specifications. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** evaluating bert and parsbert for analyzing persian advertisement data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02426  
**Abstract:** This paper discusses the impact of the Internet on modern trading and the importance of data generated from these transactions for organizations to improve their marketing efforts. The paper uses the example of Divar, an online marketplace for buying and selling products and services in Iran, and presents a competition to predict the percentage of a car sales ad that would be published on the Divar website. Since the dataset provides a rich source of Persian text data, the authors use the Hazm library, a Python library designed for processing Persian text, and two state-of-the-art language models, mBERT and ParsBERT, to analyze it. The paper's primary objective is to compare the performance of mBERT and ParsBERT on the Divar dataset. The authors provide some background on data mining, Persian language, and the two language models, examine the dataset's composition and statistical features, and provide details on their fine-tuning and training configurations for both approaches. They present the results of their analysis and highlight the strengths and weaknesses of the two language models when applied to Persian text data. The paper offers valuable insights into the challenges and opportunities of working with low-resource languages such as Persian and the potential of advanced language models like BERT for analyzing such data. The paper also explains the data mining process, including steps such as data cleaning and normalization techniques. Finally, the paper discusses the types of machine learning problems, such as supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning, and the pattern evaluation techniques, such as confusion matrix. Overall, the paper provides an informative overview of the use of language models and data mining techniques for analyzing text data in low-resource languages, using the example of the Divar dataset. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Cheaply Evaluating Inference Efficiency Metrics for Autoregressive  Transformer APIs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02440  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) power many state-of-the-art systems in natural language processing. However, these models are extremely computationally expensive, even at inference time, raising the natural question: when is the extra cost of deploying a larger model worth the anticipated boost in capabilities? Better understanding this tradeoff fundamentally could benefit from an inference efficiency metric that is both (i) easily comparable across models from different providers, and (ii) representative of the true cost of running queries in an isolated performance environment. Unfortunately, access to LLMs today is largely restricted to black-box text generation APIs and raw runtimes measured through this interface do not satisfy these desiderata: model providers can apply various software and hardware optimizations orthogonal to the model, and models served on shared infrastructure are susceptible to performance contention. To circumvent these problems, we propose a new metric for comparing inference efficiency across models. This metric puts models on equal footing as though they were served (i) on uniform hardware and software, and (ii) without performance contention. We call this metric the \emph{idealized runtime}, and we propose a methodology to efficiently estimate this metric for autoregressive Transformer models. We also propose cost-aware variants that incorporate the number of accelerators needed to serve the model. Using these metrics, we compare ten state-of-the-art LLMs to provide the first analysis of inference efficiency-capability tradeoffs; we make several observations from this analysis, including the fact that the superior inference runtime performance of certain APIs is often a byproduct of optimizations within the API rather than the underlying model. Our methodology also facilitates the efficient comparison of different software and hardware stacks. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Transfer and Active Learning for Dissonance Detection: Addressing the  Rare-Class Challenge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02459  
**Abstract:** While transformer-based systems have enabled greater accuracies with fewer training examples, data acquisition obstacles still persist for rare-class tasks -- when the class label is very infrequent (e.g. < 5% of samples). Active learning has in general been proposed to alleviate such challenges, but choice of selection strategy, the criteria by which rare-class examples are chosen, has not been systematically evaluated. Further, transformers enable iterative transfer-learning approaches. We propose and investigate transfer- and active learning solutions to the rare class problem of dissonance detection through utilizing models trained on closely related tasks and the evaluation of acquisition strategies, including a proposed probability-of-rare-class (PRC) approach. We perform these experiments for a specific rare class problem: collecting language samples of cognitive dissonance from social media. We find that PRC is a simple and effective strategy to guide annotations and ultimately improve model accuracy while transfer-learning in a specific order can improve the cold-start performance of the learner but does not benefit iterations of active learning. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Shap-E: Generating Conditional 3D Implicit Functions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02463  
**Abstract:** We present Shap-E, a conditional generative model for 3D assets. Unlike recent work on 3D generative models which produce a single output representation, Shap-E directly generates the parameters of implicit functions that can be rendered as both textured meshes and neural radiance fields. We train Shap-E in two stages: first, we train an encoder that deterministically maps 3D assets into the parameters of an implicit function; second, we train a conditional diffusion model on outputs of the encoder. When trained on a large dataset of paired 3D and text data, our resulting models are capable of generating complex and diverse 3D assets in a matter of seconds. When compared to Point-E, an explicit generative model over point clouds, Shap-E converges faster and reaches comparable or better sample quality despite modeling a higher-dimensional, multi-representation output space. We release model weights, inference code, and samples at https://github.com/openai/shap-e. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** ChatGPT-steered Editing Instructor for Customization of Abstractive  Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02483  
**Abstract:** Tailoring outputs of large language models, such as ChatGPT, to specific user needs remains a challenge despite their impressive generation quality. In this paper, we propose a tri-agent generation pipeline consisting of a generator, an instructor, and an editor to enhance the customization of generated outputs. The generator produces an initial output, the user-specific instructor generates editing instructions, and the editor generates a revised output aligned with user preferences. The inference-only large language model (ChatGPT) serves as both the generator and the editor, while a smaller model acts as the user-specific instructor to guide the generation process toward user needs. The instructor is trained using editor-steered reinforcement learning, leveraging feedback from the large-scale editor model to optimize instruction generation. Experimental results on two abstractive summarization datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in generating outputs that better fulfill user expectations. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** AutoML-GPT: Automatic Machine Learning with GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02499  
**Abstract:** AI tasks encompass a wide range of domains and fields. While numerous AI models have been designed for specific tasks and applications, they often require considerable human efforts in finding the right model architecture, optimization algorithm, and hyperparameters. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT show remarkable capabilities in various aspects of reasoning, comprehension, and interaction. Consequently, we propose developing task-oriented prompts and automatically utilizing LLMs to automate the training pipeline. To implement this concept, we present the AutoML-GPT, which employs GPT as the bridge to diverse AI models and dynamically trains models with optimized hyperparameters. AutoML-GPT dynamically takes user requests from the model and data cards and composes the corresponding prompt paragraph. Ultimately, with this prompt paragraph, AutoML-GPT will automatically conduct the experiments from data processing to model architecture, hyperparameter tuning, and predicted training log. By leveraging {\ours}'s robust language capabilities and the available AI models, AutoML-GPT can tackle numerous intricate AI tasks across various tasks and datasets. This approach achieves remarkable results in computer vision, natural language processing, and other challenging areas. Extensive experiments and ablation studies demonstrate that our method can be general, effective, and beneficial for many AI tasks. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Catch Missing Details: Image Reconstruction with Frequency Augmented  Variational Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02541  
**Abstract:** The popular VQ-VAE models reconstruct images through learning a discrete codebook but suffer from a significant issue in the rapid quality degradation of image reconstruction as the compression rate rises. One major reason is that a higher compression rate induces more loss of visual signals on the higher frequency spectrum which reflect the details on pixel space. In this paper, a Frequency Complement Module (FCM) architecture is proposed to capture the missing frequency information for enhancing reconstruction quality. The FCM can be easily incorporated into the VQ-VAE structure, and we refer to the new model as Frequency Augmented VAE (FA-VAE). In addition, a Dynamic Spectrum Loss (DSL) is introduced to guide the FCMs to balance between various frequencies dynamically for optimal reconstruction. FA-VAE is further extended to the text-to-image synthesis task, and a Cross-attention Autoregressive Transformer (CAT) is proposed to obtain more precise semantic attributes in texts. Extensive reconstruction experiments with different compression rates are conducted on several benchmark datasets, and the results demonstrate that the proposed FA-VAE is able to restore more faithfully the details compared to SOTA methods. CAT also shows improved generation quality with better image-text semantic alignment. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** PersonaLLM: Investigating the Ability of GPT-3.5 to Express Personality  Traits and Gender Differences  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02547  
**Abstract:** Despite the many use cases for large language models (LLMs) in the design of chatbots in various industries and the research showing the importance of personalizing chatbots to cater to different personality traits, little work has been done to evaluate whether the behaviors of personalized LLMs can reflect certain personality traits accurately and consistently. We consider studying the behavior of LLM-based simulated agents which refer to as LLM personas and present a case study with GPT-3.5 (text-davinci-003) to investigate whether LLMs can generate content with consistent, personalized traits when assigned Big Five personality types and gender roles. We created 320 LLM personas (5 females and 5 males for each of the 32 Big Five personality types) and prompted them to complete the classic 44-item Big Five Inventory (BFI) and then write an 800-word story about their childhood. Results showed that LLM personas' self-reported BFI scores are consistent with their assigned personality types, with large effect sizes found on all five traits. Moreover, significant correlations were found between assigned personality types and some Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC) psycholinguistic features of their writings. For instance, extroversion is associated with pro-social and active words, and neuroticism is associated with words related to negative emotions and mental health. Besides, we only found significant differences in using technological and cultural words in writing between LLM-generated female and male personas. This work provides a first step for further research on personalized LLMs and their applications in Human-AI conversation. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Should ChatGPT and Bard Share Revenue with Their Data Providers? A New  Business Model for the AI Era  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02555  
**Abstract:** With various AI tools such as ChatGPT becoming increasingly popular, we are entering a true AI era. We can foresee that exceptional AI tools will soon reap considerable profits. A crucial question arise: should AI tools share revenue with their training data providers in additional to traditional stakeholders and shareholders? The answer is Yes. Large AI tools, such as large language models, always require more and better quality data to continuously improve, but current copyright laws limit their access to various types of data. Sharing revenue between AI tools and their data providers could transform the current hostile zero-sum game relationship between AI tools and a majority of copyrighted data owners into a collaborative and mutually beneficial one, which is necessary to facilitate the development of a virtuous cycle among AI tools, their users and data providers that drives forward AI technology and builds a healthy AI ecosystem. However, current revenue-sharing business models do not work for AI tools in the forthcoming AI era, since the most widely used metrics for website-based traffic and action, such as clicks, will be replaced by new metrics such as prompts and cost per prompt for generative AI tools. A completely new revenue-sharing business model, which must be almost independent of AI tools and be easily explained to data providers, needs to establish a prompt-based scoring system to measure data engagement of each data provider. This paper systematically discusses how to build such a scoring system for all data providers for AI tools based on classification and content similarity models, and outlines the requirements for AI tools or third parties to build it. Sharing revenue with data providers using such a scoring system would encourage more data owners to participate in the revenue-sharing program. This will be a utilitarian AI era where all parties benefit. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** LayoutDM: Transformer-based Diffusion Model for Layout Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02567  
**Abstract:** Automatic layout generation that can synthesize high-quality layouts is an important tool for graphic design in many applications. Though existing methods based on generative models such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and Variational Auto-Encoders (VAEs) have progressed, they still leave much room for improving the quality and diversity of the results. Inspired by the recent success of diffusion models in generating high-quality images, this paper explores their potential for conditional layout generation and proposes Transformer-based Layout Diffusion Model (LayoutDM) by instantiating the conditional denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) with a purely transformer-based architecture. Instead of using convolutional neural networks, a transformer-based conditional Layout Denoiser is proposed to learn the reverse diffusion process to generate samples from noised layout data. Benefitting from both transformer and DDPM, our LayoutDM is of desired properties such as high-quality generation, strong sample diversity, faithful distribution coverage, and stationary training in comparison to GANs and VAEs. Quantitative and qualitative experimental results show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art generative models in terms of quality and diversity. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** High-fidelity Generalized Emotional Talking Face Generation with  Multi-modal Emotion Space Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02572  
**Abstract:** Recently, emotional talking face generation has received considerable attention. However, existing methods only adopt one-hot coding, image, or audio as emotion conditions, thus lacking flexible control in practical applications and failing to handle unseen emotion styles due to limited semantics. They either ignore the one-shot setting or the quality of generated faces. In this paper, we propose a more flexible and generalized framework. Specifically, we supplement the emotion style in text prompts and use an Aligned Multi-modal Emotion encoder to embed the text, image, and audio emotion modality into a unified space, which inherits rich semantic prior from CLIP. Consequently, effective multi-modal emotion space learning helps our method support arbitrary emotion modality during testing and could generalize to unseen emotion styles. Besides, an Emotion-aware Audio-to-3DMM Convertor is proposed to connect the emotion condition and the audio sequence to structural representation. A followed style-based High-fidelity Emotional Face generator is designed to generate arbitrary high-resolution realistic identities. Our texture generator hierarchically learns flow fields and animated faces in a residual manner. Extensive experiments demonstrate the flexibility and generalization of our method in emotion control and the effectiveness of high-quality face synthesis. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** On the Expressivity Role of LayerNorm in Transformers' Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02582  
**Abstract:** Layer Normalization (LayerNorm) is an inherent component in all Transformer-based models. In this paper, we show that LayerNorm is crucial to the expressivity of the multi-head attention layer that follows it. This is in contrast to the common belief that LayerNorm's only role is to normalize the activations during the forward pass, and their gradients during the backward pass. We consider a geometric interpretation of LayerNorm and show that it consists of two components: (a) projection of the input vectors to a $d-1$ space that is orthogonal to the $\left[1,1,...,1\right]$ vector, and (b) scaling of all vectors to the same norm of $\sqrt{d}$. We show that each of these components is important for the attention layer that follows it in Transformers: (a) projection allows the attention mechanism to create an attention query that attends to all keys equally, offloading the need to learn this operation by the attention; and (b) scaling allows each key to potentially receive the highest attention, and prevents keys from being "un-select-able". We show empirically that Transformers do indeed benefit from these properties of LayeNorm in general language modeling and even in computing simple functions such as "majority". Our code is available at https://github.com/tech-srl/layer_norm_expressivity_role . 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Multimodal-driven Talking Face Generation, Face Swapping, Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02594  
**Abstract:** Multimodal-driven talking face generation refers to animating a portrait with the given pose, expression, and gaze transferred from the driving image and video, or estimated from the text and audio. However, existing methods ignore the potential of text modal, and their generators mainly follow the source-oriented feature rearrange paradigm coupled with unstable GAN frameworks. In this work, we first represent the emotion in the text prompt, which could inherit rich semantics from the CLIP, allowing flexible and generalized emotion control. We further reorganize these tasks as the target-oriented texture transfer and adopt the Diffusion Models. More specifically, given a textured face as the source and the rendered face projected from the desired 3DMM coefficients as the target, our proposed Texture-Geometry-aware Diffusion Model decomposes the complex transfer problem into multi-conditional denoising process, where a Texture Attention-based module accurately models the correspondences between appearance and geometry cues contained in source and target conditions, and incorporate extra implicit information for high-fidelity talking face generation. Additionally, TGDM can be gracefully tailored for face swapping. We derive a novel paradigm free of unstable seesaw-style optimization, resulting in simple, stable, and effective training and inference schemes. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Semantic-aware Generation of Multi-view Portrait Drawings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02618  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRF) based methods have shown amazing performance in synthesizing 3D-consistent photographic images, but fail to generate multi-view portrait drawings. The key is that the basic assumption of these methods -- a surface point is consistent when rendered from different views -- doesn't hold for drawings. In a portrait drawing, the appearance of a facial point may changes when viewed from different angles. Besides, portrait drawings usually present little 3D information and suffer from insufficient training data. To combat this challenge, in this paper, we propose a Semantic-Aware GEnerator (SAGE) for synthesizing multi-view portrait drawings. Our motivation is that facial semantic labels are view-consistent and correlate with drawing techniques. We therefore propose to collaboratively synthesize multi-view semantic maps and the corresponding portrait drawings. To facilitate training, we design a semantic-aware domain translator, which generates portrait drawings based on features of photographic faces. In addition, use data augmentation via synthesis to mitigate collapsed results. We apply SAGE to synthesize multi-view portrait drawings in diverse artistic styles. Experimental results show that SAGE achieves significantly superior or highly competitive performance, compared to existing 3D-aware image synthesis methods. The codes are available at https://github.com/AiArt-HDU/SAGE. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Learning Language-Specific Layers for Multilingual Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02665  
**Abstract:** Multilingual Machine Translation promises to improve translation quality between non-English languages. This is advantageous for several reasons, namely lower latency (no need to translate twice), and reduced error cascades (e.g., avoiding losing gender and formality information when translating through English). On the downside, adding more languages reduces model capacity per language, which is usually countered by increasing the overall model size, making training harder and inference slower. In this work, we introduce Language-Specific Transformer Layers (LSLs), which allow us to increase model capacity, while keeping the amount of computation and the number of parameters used in the forward pass constant. The key idea is to have some layers of the encoder be source or target language-specific, while keeping the remaining layers shared. We study the best way to place these layers using a neural architecture search inspired approach, and achieve an improvement of 1.3 chrF (1.5 spBLEU) points over not using LSLs on a separate decoder architecture, and 1.9 chrF (2.2 spBLEU) on a shared decoder one. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Caption Anything: Interactive Image Description with Diverse Multimodal  Controls  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02677  
**Abstract:** Controllable image captioning is an emerging multimodal topic that aims to describe the image with natural language following human purpose, $\textit{e.g.}$, looking at the specified regions or telling in a particular text style. State-of-the-art methods are trained on annotated pairs of input controls and output captions. However, the scarcity of such well-annotated multimodal data largely limits their usability and scalability for interactive AI systems. Leveraging unimodal instruction-following foundation models is a promising alternative that benefits from broader sources of data. In this paper, we present Caption AnyThing (CAT), a foundation model augmented image captioning framework supporting a wide range of multimodel controls: 1) visual controls, including points, boxes, and trajectories; 2) language controls, such as sentiment, length, language, and factuality. Powered by Segment Anything Model (SAM) and ChatGPT, we unify the visual and language prompts into a modularized framework, enabling the flexible combination between different controls. Extensive case studies demonstrate the user intention alignment capabilities of our framework, shedding light on effective user interaction modeling in vision-language applications. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/ttengwang/Caption-Anything. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** On Vertically-Drifted First Arrival Position Distribution in Diffusion  Channels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02706  
**Abstract:** Recent studies show that stable distributions are successful in modeling heavy-tailed or impulsive noise. Investigation of the stability of a probability distribution can be greatly facilitated if the corresponding characteristic function (CF) has a closed-form expression. We explore a new family of distribution called the Vertically-Drifted First Arrival Position (VDFAP) distribution, which can be viewed as a generalization of symmetric alpha-stable (S$\alpha$S) distribution with stability parameter $\alpha=1$. In addition, VDFAP distribution has a clear physical interpretation when we consider first-hitting problems of particles following Brownian motion with a driving drift. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Radiance Field Gradient Scaling for Unbiased Near-Camera Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02756  
**Abstract:** NeRF acquisition typically requires careful choice of near planes for the different cameras or suffers from background collapse, creating floating artifacts on the edges of the captured scene. The key insight of this work is that background collapse is caused by a higher density of samples in regions near cameras. As a result of this sampling bias, near-camera volumes receive significantly more gradients, leading to incorrect density buildup. We propose a gradient scaling approach to counter-balance this bias, removing the need for near planes, while preventing background collapse. Our method can be implemented in a few lines, does not induce any significant overhead, and is compatible with most NeRF implementations. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Towards End-to-End Semi-Supervised Table Detection with Deformable  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02769  
**Abstract:** Table detection is the task of classifying and localizing table objects within document images. With the recent development in deep learning methods, we observe remarkable success in table detection. However, a significant amount of labeled data is required to train these models effectively. Many semi-supervised approaches are introduced to mitigate the need for a substantial amount of label data. These approaches use CNN-based detectors that rely on anchor proposals and post-processing stages such as NMS. To tackle these limitations, this paper presents a novel end-to-end semi-supervised table detection method that employs the deformable transformer for detecting table objects. We evaluate our semi-supervised method on PubLayNet, DocBank, ICADR-19 and TableBank datasets, and it achieves superior performance compared to previous methods. It outperforms the fully supervised method (Deformable transformer) by +3.4 points on 10\% labels of TableBank-both dataset and the previous CNN-based semi-supervised approach (Soft Teacher) by +1.8 points on 10\% labels of PubLayNet dataset. We hope this work opens new possibilities towards semi-supervised and unsupervised table detection methods. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Automated Code generation for Information Technology Tasks in YAML  through Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02783  
**Abstract:** The recent improvement in code generation capabilities due to the use of large language models has mainly benefited general purpose programming languages. Domain specific languages, such as the ones used for IT Automation, have received far less attention, despite involving many active developers and being an essential component of modern cloud platforms. This work focuses on the generation of Ansible-YAML, a widely used markup language for IT Automation. We present Ansible Wisdom, a natural-language to Ansible-YAML code generation tool, aimed at improving IT automation productivity. Ansible Wisdom is a transformer-based model, extended by training with a new dataset containing Ansible-YAML. We also develop two novel performance metrics for YAML and Ansible to capture the specific characteristics of this domain. Results show that Ansible Wisdom can accurately generate Ansible script from natural language prompts with performance comparable or better than existing state of the art code generation models. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** BranchNorm: Robustly Scaling Extremely Deep Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02790  
**Abstract:** Recently, DeepNorm scales Transformers into extremely deep (i.e., 1000 layers) and reveals the promising potential of deep scaling. To stabilize the training of deep models, DeepNorm (Wang et al., 2022) attempts to constrain the model update to a constant value. Although applying such a constraint can benefit the early stage of model training, it may lead to undertrained models during the whole training procedure. In this paper, we propose BranchNorm, which dynamically rescales the non-residual branch of Transformer in accordance with the training period. BranchNorm not only theoretically stabilizes the training with smooth gradient norms at the early stage, but also encourages better convergence in the subsequent training stage. Experiment results on multiple translation tasks demonstrate that BranchNorm achieves a better trade-off between training stability and converge performance. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** A numerically efficient output-only system-identification framework for  stochastically forced self-sustained oscillators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02801  
**Abstract:** Self-sustained oscillations are ubiquitous in nature and engineering. In this paper, we propose a novel output-only system-identification framework for identifying the system parameters of a self-sustained oscillator affected by Gaussian white noise. A Langevin model that characterizes the self-sustained oscillator is postulated, and the corresponding Fokker--Planck equation is derived from stochastic averaging. From the drift and diffusion terms of the Fokker--Planck equation, unknown parameters of the system are identified. We develop a numerically efficient algorithm for enhancing the accuracy of parameter identification. In particular, a modified Levenberg--Marquardt optimization algorithm tailored to output-only system identification is introduced. The proposed framework is demonstrated on both numerical and experimental oscillators with varying system parameters that develop into self-sustained oscillations. The results show that the computational cost required for performing the system identification is dramatically reduced by using the proposed framework. Also, system parameters that were difficult to be extracted with the existing method could be efficiently computed with the system identification method developed in this study. Pertaining to the robustness and computational efficiency of the presented framework, this study can contribute to an accurate and fast diagnosis of dynamical systems under stochastic forcing. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Interpretable Sentence Representation with Variational Autoencoders and  Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02810  
**Abstract:** In this thesis, we develop methods to enhance the interpretability of recent representation learning techniques in natural language processing (NLP) while accounting for the unavailability of annotated data. We choose to leverage Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) due to their efficiency in relating observations to latent generative factors and their effectiveness in data-efficient learning and interpretable representation learning. As a first contribution, we identify and remove unnecessary components in the functioning scheme of semi-supervised VAEs making them faster, smaller and easier to design. Our second and main contribution is to use VAEs and Transformers to build two models with inductive bias to separate information in latent representations into understandable concepts without annotated data. The first model, Attention-Driven VAE (ADVAE), is able to separately represent and control information about syntactic roles in sentences. The second model, QKVAE, uses separate latent variables to form keys and values for its Transformer decoder and is able to separate syntactic and semantic information in its neural representations. In transfer experiments, QKVAE has competitive performance compared to supervised models and equivalent performance to a supervised model using 50K annotated samples. Additionally, QKVAE displays improved syntactic role disentanglement capabilities compared to ADVAE. Overall, we demonstrate that it is possible to enhance the interpretability of state-of-the-art deep learning architectures for language modeling with unannotated data in situations where text data is abundant but annotations are scarce. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Noise-Resistant Multimodal Transformer for Emotion Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02814  
**Abstract:** Multimodal emotion recognition identifies human emotions from various data modalities like video, text, and audio. However, we found that this task can be easily affected by noisy information that does not contain useful semantics. To this end, we present a novel paradigm that attempts to extract noise-resistant features in its pipeline and introduces a noise-aware learning scheme to effectively improve the robustness of multimodal emotion understanding. Our new pipeline, namely Noise-Resistant Multimodal Transformer (NORM-TR), mainly introduces a Noise-Resistant Generic Feature (NRGF) extractor and a Transformer for the multimodal emotion recognition task. In particular, we make the NRGF extractor learn a generic and disturbance-insensitive representation so that consistent and meaningful semantics can be obtained. Furthermore, we apply a Transformer to incorporate Multimodal Features (MFs) of multimodal inputs based on their relations to the NRGF. Therefore, the possible insensitive but useful information of NRGF could be complemented by MFs that contain more details. To train the NORM-TR properly, our proposed noise-aware learning scheme complements normal emotion recognition losses by enhancing the learning against noises. Our learning scheme explicitly adds noises to either all the modalities or a specific modality at random locations of a multimodal input sequence. We correspondingly introduce two adversarial losses to encourage the NRGF extractor to learn to extract the NRGFs invariant to the added noises, thus facilitating the NORM-TR to achieve more favorable multimodal emotion recognition performance. In practice, on several popular multimodal datasets, our NORM-TR achieves state-of-the-art performance and outperforms existing methods by a large margin, which demonstrates that the ability to resist noisy information is important for effective emotion recognition. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Hierarchical Transformer for Scalable Graph Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02866  
**Abstract:** Graph Transformer is gaining increasing attention in the field of machine learning and has demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on benchmarks for graph representation learning. However, as current implementations of Graph Transformer primarily focus on learning representations of small-scale graphs, the quadratic complexity of the global self-attention mechanism presents a challenge for full-batch training when applied to larger graphs. Additionally, conventional sampling-based methods fail to capture necessary high-level contextual information, resulting in a significant loss of performance. In this paper, we introduce the Hierarchical Scalable Graph Transformer (HSGT) as a solution to these challenges. HSGT successfully scales the Transformer architecture to node representation learning tasks on large-scale graphs, while maintaining high performance. By utilizing graph hierarchies constructed through coarsening techniques, HSGT efficiently updates and stores multi-scale information in node embeddings at different levels. Together with sampling-based training methods, HSGT effectively captures and aggregates multi-level information on the hierarchical graph using only Transformer blocks. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that HSGT achieves state-of-the-art performance on large-scale benchmarks with graphs containing millions of nodes with high efficiency. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** 2x Faster Language Model Pre-training via Masked Structural Growth  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02869  
**Abstract:** Acceleration of large language model pre-training is a critical issue in present NLP research. In this paper, we focus on speeding up pre-training by progressively growing from a small Transformer structure to a large one. There are two main research problems related to progressive growth: growth schedule and growth operator. For growth schedule, existing work has explored multi-stage expansion of depth and feedforward layers. However, the impact of each dimension on the schedule's efficiency is still an open question. For growth operator, existing work relies on the initialization of new weights to inherit knowledge, and achieve only non-strict function preservation, limiting further optimization of training dynamics. To address these issues, we propose Masked Structural Growth (MSG), including growth schedules involving all possible dimensions and strictly function-preserving growth operators that is independent of the initialization of new weights. Experiments show that MSG is significantly faster than related work: we achieve a speed-up of 80% for Bert-base and 120% for Bert-large pre-training. Moreover, MSG is able to improve fine-tuning performances at the same time. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** The AI generation gap: Are Gen Z students more interested in adopting  generative AI such as ChatGPT in teaching and learning than their Gen X and  Millennial Generation teachers?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02878  
**Abstract:** This study aimed to explore the experiences, perceptions, knowledge, concerns, and intentions of Gen Z students with Gen X and Gen Y teachers regarding the use of generative AI (GenAI) in higher education. A sample of students and teachers were recruited to investigate the above using a survey consisting of both open and closed questions. The findings showed that Gen Z participants were generally optimistic about the potential benefits of GenAI, including enhanced productivity, efficiency, and personalized learning, and expressed intentions to use GenAI for various educational purposes. Gen X and Gen Y teachers acknowledged the potential benefits of GenAI but expressed heightened concerns about overreliance, ethical and pedagogical implications, emphasizing the need for proper guidelines and policies to ensure responsible use of the technology. The study highlighted the importance of combining technology with traditional teaching methods to provide a more effective learning experience. Implications of the findings include the need to develop evidence-based guidelines and policies for GenAI integration, foster critical thinking and digital literacy skills among students, and promote responsible use of GenAI technologies in higher education. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** An automatically discovered chain-of-thought prompt generalizes to novel  models and datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02897  
**Abstract:** Emergent chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning capabilities promise to improve performance and explainability of large language models (LLMs). However, uncertainties remain about how prompting strategies formulated for previous model generations generalize to new model generations and different datasets. In this small-scale study we compare the performance of a range of zero-shot prompts for inducing CoT reasoning across six recently released LLMs (davinci-002, davinci-003, GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4, Flan-T5-xxl and Cohere command-xlarge) on a mixture of six question-answering datasets, including datasets from scientific and medical domains. We find that a CoT prompt that was previously discovered through automated prompt discovery shows robust performance across experimental conditions and produces best results when applied to the state-of-the-art model GPT-4. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** UPDExplainer: an Interpretable Transformer-based Framework for Urban  Physical Disorder Detection Using Street View Imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02911  
**Abstract:** Urban Physical Disorder (UPD), such as old or abandoned buildings, broken sidewalks, litter, and graffiti, has a negative impact on residents' quality of life. They can also increase crime rates, cause social disorder, and pose a public health risk. Currently, there is a lack of efficient and reliable methods for detecting and understanding UPD. To bridge this gap, we propose UPDExplainer, an interpretable transformer-based framework for UPD detection. We first develop a UPD detection model based on the Swin Transformer architecture, which leverages readily accessible street view images to learn discriminative representations. In order to provide clear and comprehensible evidence and analysis, we subsequently introduce a UPD factor identification and ranking module that combines visual explanation maps with semantic segmentation maps. This novel integrated approach enables us to identify the exact objects within street view images that are responsible for physical disorders and gain insights into the underlying causes. Experimental results on the re-annotated Place Pulse 2.0 dataset demonstrate promising detection performance of the proposed method, with an accuracy of 79.9%. For a comprehensive evaluation of the method's ranking performance, we report the mean Average Precision (mAP), R-Precision (RPrec), and Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG), with success rates of 75.51%, 80.61%, and 82.58%, respectively. We also present a case study of detecting and ranking physical disorders in the southern region of downtown Los Angeles, California, to demonstrate the practicality and effectiveness of our framework. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Adversarially-Guided Portrait Matting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02981  
**Abstract:** We present a method for generating alpha mattes using a limited data source. We pretrain a novel transformerbased model (StyleMatte) on portrait datasets. We utilize this model to provide image-mask pairs for the StyleGAN3- based network (StyleMatteGAN). This network is trained unsupervisedly and generates previously unseen imagemask training pairs that are fed back to StyleMatte. We demonstrate that the performance of the matte pulling network improves during this cycle and obtains top results on the used datasets. Furthermore, StyleMatteGAN provides high-resolution, privacy-preserving portraits with alpha mattes, making it suitable for various image composition tasks. Our code is available at https://github.com/chroneus/stylematte 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Improving Code Example Recommendations on Informal Documentation Using  BERT and Query-Aware LSH: A Comparative Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03017  
**Abstract:** The study of code example recommendation has been conducted extensively in the past and recently in order to assist developers in their software development tasks. This is because developers often spend significant time searching for relevant code examples on the internet, utilizing open-source projects and informal documentation. For finding useful code examples, informal documentation, such as Stack Overflow discussions and forums, can be invaluable. We have focused our research on Stack Overflow, which is a popular resource for discussing different topics among software developers. For increasing the quality of the recommended code examples, we have collected and recommended the best code examples in the Java programming language. We have utilized BERT in our approach, which is a Large Language Model (LLM) for text representation that can effectively extract semantic information from textual data. Our first step involved using BERT to convert code examples into numerical vectors. Subsequently, we applied LSH to identify Approximate Nearest Neighbors (ANN). Our research involved the implementation of two variants of this approach, namely the Random Hyperplane-based LSH and the Query-Aware LSH. Our study compared two algorithms using four parameters: HitRate, Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), Average Execution Time, and Relevance. The results of our analysis revealed that the Query- Aware (QA) approach outperformed the Random Hyperplane-based (RH) approach in terms of HitRate. Specifically, the QA approach achieved a HitRate improvement of 20% to 35% for query pairs compared to the RH approach. Creating hashing tables and assigning data samples to buckets using the QA approach is at least four times faster than the RH approach. The QA approach returns code examples within milliseconds, while it takes several seconds (sec) for the RH approach to recommend code examples. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Principle-Driven Self-Alignment of Language Models from Scratch with  Minimal Human Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03047  
**Abstract:** Recent AI-assistant agents, such as ChatGPT, predominantly rely on supervised fine-tuning (SFT) with human annotations and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) to align the output of large language models (LLMs) with human intentions, ensuring they are helpful, ethical, and reliable. However, this dependence can significantly constrain the true potential of AI-assistant agents due to the high cost of obtaining human supervision and the related issues on quality, reliability, diversity, self-consistency, and undesirable biases. To address these challenges, we propose a novel approach called SELF-ALIGN, which combines principle-driven reasoning and the generative power of LLMs for the self-alignment of AI agents with minimal human supervision. Our approach encompasses four stages: first, we use an LLM to generate synthetic prompts, and a topic-guided method to augment the prompt diversity; second, we use a small set of human-written principles for AI models to follow, and guide the LLM through in-context learning from demonstrations (of principles application) to produce helpful, ethical, and reliable responses to user's queries; third, we fine-tune the original LLM with the high-quality self-aligned responses so that the resulting model can generate desirable responses for each query directly without the principle set and the demonstrations anymore; and finally, we offer a refinement step to address the issues of overly-brief or indirect responses. Applying SELF-ALIGN to the LLaMA-65b base language model, we develop an AI assistant named Dromedary. With fewer than 300 lines of human annotations (including < 200 seed prompts, 16 generic principles, and 5 exemplars for in-context learning). Dromedary significantly surpasses the performance of several state-of-the-art AI systems, including Text-Davinci-003 and Alpaca, on benchmark datasets with various settings. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Personalize Segment Anything Model with One Shot  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03048  
**Abstract:** Driven by large-data pre-training, Segment Anything Model (SAM) has been demonstrated as a powerful and promptable framework, revolutionizing the segmentation models. Despite the generality, customizing SAM for specific visual concepts without man-powered prompting is under explored, e.g., automatically segmenting your pet dog in different images. In this paper, we propose a training-free Personalization approach for SAM, termed as PerSAM. Given only a single image with a reference mask, PerSAM first localizes the target concept by a location prior, and segments it within other images or videos via three techniques: target-guided attention, target-semantic prompting, and cascaded post-refinement. In this way, we effectively adapt SAM for private use without any training. To further alleviate the mask ambiguity, we present an efficient one-shot fine-tuning variant, PerSAM-F. Freezing the entire SAM, we introduce two learnable weights for multi-scale masks, only training 2 parameters within 10 seconds for improved performance. To demonstrate our efficacy, we construct a new segmentation dataset, PerSeg, for personalized evaluation, and test our methods on video object segmentation with competitive performance. Besides, our approach can also enhance DreamBooth to personalize Stable Diffusion for text-to-image generation, which discards the background disturbance for better target appearance learning. Code is released at https://github.com/ZrrSkywalker/Personalize-SAM 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** NeuralEditor: Editing Neural Radiance Fields via Manipulating Point  Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03049  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes NeuralEditor that enables neural radiance fields (NeRFs) natively editable for general shape editing tasks. Despite their impressive results on novel-view synthesis, it remains a fundamental challenge for NeRFs to edit the shape of the scene. Our key insight is to exploit the explicit point cloud representation as the underlying structure to construct NeRFs, inspired by the intuitive interpretation of NeRF rendering as a process that projects or "plots" the associated 3D point cloud to a 2D image plane. To this end, NeuralEditor introduces a novel rendering scheme based on deterministic integration within K-D tree-guided density-adaptive voxels, which produces both high-quality rendering results and precise point clouds through optimization. NeuralEditor then performs shape editing via mapping associated points between point clouds. Extensive evaluation shows that NeuralEditor achieves state-of-the-art performance in both shape deformation and scene morphing tasks. Notably, NeuralEditor supports both zero-shot inference and further fine-tuning over the edited scene. Our code, benchmark, and demo video are available at https://immortalco.github.io/NeuralEditor. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Tracking through Containers and Occluders in the Wild  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03052  
**Abstract:** Tracking objects with persistence in cluttered and dynamic environments remains a difficult challenge for computer vision systems. In this paper, we introduce $\textbf{TCOW}$, a new benchmark and model for visual tracking through heavy occlusion and containment. We set up a task where the goal is to, given a video sequence, segment both the projected extent of the target object, as well as the surrounding container or occluder whenever one exists. To study this task, we create a mixture of synthetic and annotated real datasets to support both supervised learning and structured evaluation of model performance under various forms of task variation, such as moving or nested containment. We evaluate two recent transformer-based video models and find that while they can be surprisingly capable of tracking targets under certain settings of task variation, there remains a considerable performance gap before we can claim a tracking model to have acquired a true notion of object permanence. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** xTrimoABFold: De novo Antibody Structure Prediction without MSA  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2212.00735  
**Abstract:** In the field of antibody engineering, an essential task is to design a novel antibody whose paratopes bind to a specific antigen with correct epitopes. Understanding antibody structure and its paratope can facilitate a mechanistic understanding of its function. Therefore, antibody structure prediction from its sequence alone has always been a highly valuable problem for de novo antibody design. AlphaFold2, a breakthrough in the field of structural biology, provides a solution to predict protein structure based on protein sequences and computationally expensive coevolutionary multiple sequence alignments (MSAs). However, the computational efficiency and undesirable prediction accuracy of antibodies, especially on the complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) of antibodies limit their applications in the industrially high-throughput drug design. To learn an informative representation of antibodies, we employed a deep antibody language model (ALM) on curated sequences from the observed antibody space database via a transformer model. We also developed a novel model named xTrimoABFold to predict antibody structure from antibody sequence based on the pretrained ALM as well as efficient evoformers and structural modules. The model was trained end-to-end on the antibody structures in PDB by minimizing the ensemble loss of domain-specific focal loss on CDR and the frame-aligned point loss. xTrimoABFold outperforms AlphaFold2 and other protein language model based SOTAs, e.g., OmegaFold, HelixFold-Single, and IgFold with a large significant margin (30+\% improvement on RMSD) while performing 151 times faster than AlphaFold2. To the best of our knowledge, xTrimoABFold achieved state-of-the-art antibody structure prediction. Its improvement in both accuracy and efficiency makes it a valuable tool for de novo antibody design and could make further improvements in immuno-theory. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Self-Supervised Learning for Organs At Risk and Tumor Segmentation with  Uncertainty Quantification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02491  
**Abstract:** In this study, our goal is to show the impact of self-supervised pre-training of transformers for organ at risk (OAR) and tumor segmentation as compared to costly fully-supervised learning. The proposed algorithm is called Monte Carlo Transformer based U-Net (MC-Swin-U). Unlike many other available models, our approach presents uncertainty quantification with Monte Carlo dropout strategy while generating its voxel-wise prediction. We test and validate the proposed model on both public and one private datasets and evaluate the gross tumor volume (GTV) as well as nearby risky organs' boundaries. We show that self-supervised pre-training approach improves the segmentation scores significantly while providing additional benefits for avoiding large-scale annotation costs. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Language, Time Preferences, and Consumer Behavior: Evidence from Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02531  
**Abstract:** Language has a strong influence on our perceptions of time and rewards. This raises the question of whether large language models, when asked in different languages, show different preferences for rewards over time and if their choices are similar to those of humans. In this study, we analyze the responses of GPT-3.5 (hereafter referred to as GPT) to prompts in multiple languages, exploring preferences between smaller, sooner rewards and larger, later rewards. Our results show that GPT displays greater patience when prompted in languages with weak future tense references (FTR), such as German and Mandarin, compared to languages with strong FTR, like English and French. These findings are consistent with existing literature and suggest a correlation between GPT's choices and the preferences of speakers of these languages. However, further analysis reveals that the preference for earlier or later rewards does not systematically change with reward gaps, indicating a lexicographic preference for earlier payments. While GPT may capture intriguing variations across languages, our findings indicate that the choices made by these models do not correspond to those of human decision-makers. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Point Transformer For Coronary Artery Labeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.02533  
**Abstract:** Coronary CT angiography (CCTA) scans are widely used for diagnosis of coronary artery diseases. An accurate and automatic vessel labeling algorithm for CCTA analysis can significantly improve the diagnostic efficiency and reduce the clinicians'manual efforts. In this paper, we propose a simple vessel labeling method based on the Point Transformer, which only needs the coronary artery segmentation. Specifically, firstly, the coronary segmentation is transformed to point cloud. Then, these points are fed into the hierarchical transformer blocks to obtain the multi-level features, including local and global features. Finally, the network output the semantic classification points and map them to centerline labeling. This method is only based on the structure of coronary segmentation and need not other features, so it is easy to generalize to other vessel labeling tasks, e.g., head and neck vessel labeling. To evaluate the performance of our proposed method, CCTA scans of 53 subjects are collected in our experiment. The experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of this approach. 

