**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Curating corpora with classifiers: A case study of clean energy  sentiment online  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03092  
**Abstract:** Well curated, large-scale corpora of social media posts containing broad public opinion offer an alternative data source to complement traditional surveys. While surveys are effective at collecting representative samples and are capable of achieving high accuracy, they can be both expensive to run and lag public opinion by days or weeks. Both of these drawbacks could be overcome with a real-time, high volume data stream and fast analysis pipeline. A central challenge in orchestrating such a data pipeline is devising an effective method for rapidly selecting the best corpus of relevant documents for analysis. Querying with keywords alone often includes irrelevant documents that are not easily disambiguated with bag-of-words natural language processing methods. Here, we explore methods of corpus curation to filter irrelevant tweets using pre-trained transformer-based models, fine-tuned for our binary classification task on hand-labeled tweets. We are able to achieve F1 scores of up to 0.95. The low cost and high performance of fine-tuning such a model suggests that our approach could be of broad benefit as a pre-processing step for social media datasets with uncertain corpus boundaries. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Can LLM Already Serve as A Database Interface? A BIg Bench for  Large-Scale Database Grounded Text-to-SQLs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03111  
**Abstract:** Text-to-SQL parsing, which aims at converting natural language instructions into executable SQLs, has gained increasing attention in recent years. In particular, Codex and ChatGPT have shown impressive results in this task. However, most of the prevalent benchmarks, i.e., Spider, and WikiSQL, focus on database schema with few rows of database contents leaving the gap between academic study and real-world applications. To mitigate this gap, we present Bird, a big benchmark for large-scale database grounded in text-to-SQL tasks, containing 12,751 pairs of text-to-SQL data and 95 databases with a total size of 33.4 GB, spanning 37 professional domains. Our emphasis on database values highlights the new challenges of dirty database contents, external knowledge between NL questions and database contents, and SQL efficiency, particularly in the context of massive databases. To solve these problems, text-to-SQL models must feature database value comprehension in addition to semantic parsing. The experimental results demonstrate the significance of database values in generating accurate text-to-SQLs for big databases. Furthermore, even the most effective text-to-SQL models, i.e. ChatGPT, only achieves 40.08% in execution accuracy, which is still far from the human result of 92.96%, proving that challenges still stand. Besides, we also provide an efficiency analysis to offer insights into generating text-to-efficient-SQLs that are beneficial to industries. We believe that BIRD will contribute to advancing real-world applications of text-to-SQL research. The leaderboard and source code are available: https://bird-bench.github.io/. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Mitigating Undisciplined Over-Smoothing in Transformer for Weakly  Supervised Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03112  
**Abstract:** A surge of interest has emerged in weakly supervised semantic segmentation due to its remarkable efficiency in recent years. Existing approaches based on transformers mainly focus on exploring the affinity matrix to boost CAMs with global relationships. While in this work, we first perform a scrupulous examination towards the impact of successive affinity matrices and discover that they possess an inclination toward sparsification as the network approaches convergence, hence disclosing a manifestation of over-smoothing. Besides, it has been observed that enhanced attention maps tend to evince a substantial amount of extraneous background noise in deeper layers. Drawing upon this, we posit a daring conjecture that the undisciplined over-smoothing phenomenon introduces a noteworthy quantity of semantically irrelevant background noise, causing performance degradation. To alleviate this issue, we propose a novel perspective that highlights the objects of interest by investigating the regions of the trait, thereby fostering an extensive comprehension of the successive affinity matrix. Consequently, we suggest an adaptive re-activation mechanism (AReAM) that alleviates the issue of incomplete attention within the object and the unbounded background noise. AReAM accomplishes this by supervising high-level attention with shallow affinity matrices, yielding promising results. Exhaustive experiments conducted on the commonly used dataset manifest that segmentation results can be greatly improved through our proposed AReAM, which imposes restrictions on each affinity matrix in deep layers to make it attentive to semantic regions. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** ChatGPT Needs SPADE (Sustainability, PrivAcy, Digital divide, and  Ethics) Evaluation: A Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03123  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT is another large language model (LLM) inline but due to its performance and ability to converse effectively, it has gained a huge popularity amongst research as well as industrial community. Recently, many studies have been published to show the effectiveness, efficiency, integration, and sentiments of chatGPT and other LLMs. In contrast, this study focuses on the important aspects that are mostly overlooked, i.e. sustainability, privacy, digital divide, and ethics and suggests that not only chatGPT but every subsequent entry in the category of conversational bots should undergo Sustainability, PrivAcy, Digital divide, and Ethics (SPADE) evaluation. This paper discusses in detail about the issues and concerns raised over chatGPT in line with aforementioned characteristics. We support our hypothesis by some preliminary data collection and visualizations along with hypothesized facts. We also suggest mitigations and recommendations for each of the concerns. Furthermore, we also suggest some policies and recommendations for AI policy act, if designed by the governments. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Chain-of-Skills: A Configurable Model for Open-domain Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03130  
**Abstract:** The retrieval model is an indispensable component for real-world knowledge-intensive tasks, e.g., open-domain question answering (ODQA). As separate retrieval skills are annotated for different datasets, recent work focuses on customized methods, limiting the model transferability and scalability. In this work, we propose a modular retriever where individual modules correspond to key skills that can be reused across datasets. Our approach supports flexible skill configurations based on the target domain to boost performance. To mitigate task interference, we design a novel modularization parameterization inspired by sparse Transformer. We demonstrate that our model can benefit from self-supervised pretraining on Wikipedia and fine-tuning using multiple ODQA datasets, both in a multi-task fashion. Our approach outperforms recent self-supervised retrievers in zero-shot evaluations and achieves state-of-the-art fine-tuned retrieval performance on NQ, HotpotQA and OTT-QA. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** The Role of Global and Local Context in Named Entity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03132  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained transformer-based models have recently shown great performance when applied to Named Entity Recognition (NER). As the complexity of their self-attention mechanism prevents them from processing long documents at once, these models are usually applied in a sequential fashion. Such an approach unfortunately only incorporates local context and prevents leveraging global document context in long documents such as novels, which might hinder performance. In this article, we explore the impact of global document context, and its relationships with local context. We find that correctly retrieving global document context has a greater impact on performance than only leveraging local context, prompting for further research on how to better retrieve that context. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Influence of various text embeddings on clustering performance in NLP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03144  
**Abstract:** With the advent of e-commerce platforms, reviews are crucial for customers to assess the credibility of a product. The star ratings do not always match the review text written by the customer. For example, a three star rating (out of five) may be incongruous with the review text, which may be more suitable for a five star review. A clustering approach can be used to relabel the correct star ratings by grouping the text reviews into individual groups. In this work, we explore the task of choosing different text embeddings to represent these reviews and also explore the impact the embedding choice has on the performance of various classes of clustering algorithms. We use contextual (BERT) and non-contextual (Word2Vec) text embeddings to represent the text and measure their impact of three classes on clustering algorithms - partitioning based (KMeans), single linkage agglomerative hierarchical, and density based (DBSCAN and HDBSCAN), each with various experimental settings. We use the silhouette score, adjusted rand index score, and cluster purity score metrics to evaluate the performance of the algorithms and discuss the impact of different embeddings on the clustering performance. Our results indicate that the type of embedding chosen drastically affects the performance of the algorithm, the performance varies greatly across different types of clustering algorithms, no embedding type is better than the other, and DBSCAN outperforms KMeans and single linkage agglomerative clustering but also labels more data points as outliers. We provide a thorough comparison of the performances of different algorithms and provide numerous ideas to foster further research in the domain of text clustering. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** G-MATT: Single-step Retrosynthesis Prediction using Molecular Grammar  Tree Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03153  
**Abstract:** In recent years, several reaction templates-based and template-free approaches have been reported for single-step retrosynthesis prediction. Even though many of these approaches perform well from traditional data-driven metrics standpoint, there is a disconnect between model architectures used and underlying chemistry principles governing retrosynthesis. Here, we propose a novel chemistry-aware retrosynthesis prediction framework that combines powerful data-driven models with chemistry knowledge. We report a tree-to-sequence transformer architecture based on hierarchical SMILES grammar trees as input containing underlying chemistry information that is otherwise ignored by models based on purely SMILES-based representations. The proposed framework, grammar-based molecular attention tree transformer (G-MATT), achieves significant performance improvements compared to baseline retrosynthesis models. G-MATT achieves a top-1 accuracy of 51% (top-10 accuracy of 79.1%), invalid rate of 1.5%, and bioactive similarity rate of 74.8%. Further analyses based on attention maps demonstrate G-MATT's ability to preserve chemistry knowledge without having to use extremely complex model architectures. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** NeRF-QA: Neural Radiance Fields Quality Assessment Database  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03176  
**Abstract:** This short paper proposes a new database - NeRF-QA - containing 48 videos synthesized with seven NeRF based methods, along with their perceived quality scores, resulting from subjective assessment tests; for the videos selection, both real and synthetic, 360 degrees scenes were considered. This database will allow to evaluate the suitability, to NeRF based synthesized views, of existing objective quality metrics and also the development of new quality metrics, specific for this case. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** A Generative Modeling Framework for Inferring Families of Biomechanical  Constitutive Laws in Data-Sparse Regimes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03184  
**Abstract:** Quantifying biomechanical properties of the human vasculature could deepen our understanding of cardiovascular diseases. Standard nonlinear regression in constitutive modeling requires considerable high-quality data and an explicit form of the constitutive model as prior knowledge. By contrast, we propose a novel approach that combines generative deep learning with Bayesian inference to efficiently infer families of constitutive relationships in data-sparse regimes. Inspired by the concept of functional priors, we develop a generative adversarial network (GAN) that incorporates a neural operator as the generator and a fully-connected neural network as the discriminator. The generator takes a vector of noise conditioned on measurement data as input and yields the predicted constitutive relationship, which is scrutinized by the discriminator in the following step. We demonstrate that this framework can accurately estimate means and standard deviations of the constitutive relationships of the murine aorta using data collected either from model-generated synthetic data or ex vivo experiments for mice with genetic deficiencies. In addition, the framework learns priors of constitutive models without explicitly knowing their functional form, providing a new model-agnostic approach to learning hidden constitutive behaviors from data. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Generating Virtual On-body Accelerometer Data from Virtual Textual  Descriptions for Human Activity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03187  
**Abstract:** The development of robust, generalized models in human activity recognition (HAR) has been hindered by the scarcity of large-scale, labeled data sets. Recent work has shown that virtual IMU data extracted from videos using computer vision techniques can lead to substantial performance improvements when training HAR models combined with small portions of real IMU data. Inspired by recent advances in motion synthesis from textual descriptions and connecting Large Language Models (LLMs) to various AI models, we introduce an automated pipeline that first uses ChatGPT to generate diverse textual descriptions of activities. These textual descriptions are then used to generate 3D human motion sequences via a motion synthesis model, T2M-GPT, and later converted to streams of virtual IMU data. We benchmarked our approach on three HAR datasets (RealWorld, PAMAP2, and USC-HAD) and demonstrate that the use of virtual IMU training data generated using our new approach leads to significantly improved HAR model performance compared to only using real IMU data. Our approach contributes to the growing field of cross-modality transfer methods and illustrate how HAR models can be improved through the generation of virtual training data that do not require any manual effort. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Gpt-4: A Review on Advancements and Opportunities in Natural Language  Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03195  
**Abstract:** Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4 (GPT-4) is the fourth-generation language model in the GPT series, developed by OpenAI, which promises significant advancements in the field of natural language processing (NLP). In this research article, we have discussed the features of GPT-4, its potential applications, and the challenges that it might face. We have also compared GPT-4 with its predecessor, GPT-3. GPT-4 has a larger model size (more than one trillion), better multilingual capabilities, improved contextual understanding, and reasoning capabilities than GPT-3. Some of the potential applications of GPT-4 include chatbots, personal assistants, language translation, text summarization, and question-answering. However, GPT-4 poses several challenges and limitations such as computational requirements, data requirements, and ethical concerns. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** AttentionViz: A Global View of Transformer Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03210  
**Abstract:** Transformer models are revolutionizing machine learning, but their inner workings remain mysterious. In this work, we present a new visualization technique designed to help researchers understand the self-attention mechanism in transformers that allows these models to learn rich, contextual relationships between elements of a sequence. The main idea behind our method is to visualize a joint embedding of the query and key vectors used by transformer models to compute attention. Unlike previous attention visualization techniques, our approach enables the analysis of global patterns across multiple input sequences. We create an interactive visualization tool, AttentionViz, based on these joint query-key embeddings, and use it to study attention mechanisms in both language and vision transformers. We demonstrate the utility of our approach in improving model understanding and offering new insights about query-key interactions through several application scenarios and expert feedback. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** LLM2Loss: Leveraging Language Models for Explainable Model Diagnostics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03212  
**Abstract:** Trained on a vast amount of data, Large Language models (LLMs) have achieved unprecedented success and generalization in modeling fairly complex textual inputs in the abstract space, making them powerful tools for zero-shot learning. Such capability is extended to other modalities such as the visual domain using cross-modal foundation models such as CLIP, and as a result, semantically meaningful representation are extractable from visual inputs. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Neuromodulation Gated Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03232  
**Abstract:** We introduce a novel architecture, the Neuromodulation Gated Transformer (NGT), which is a simple implementation of neuromodulation in transformers via a multiplicative effect. We compare it to baselines and show that it results in the best average performance on the SuperGLUE benchmark validation sets. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** VicunaNER: Zero/Few-shot Named Entity Recognition using Vicuna  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03253  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs, e.g., ChatGPT) have shown impressive zero- and few-shot capabilities in Named Entity Recognition (NER). However, these models can only be accessed via online APIs, which may cause data leak and non-reproducible problems. In this paper, we propose VicunaNER, a zero/few-shot NER framework based on the newly released open-source LLM -- Vicuna. VicunaNER is a two-phase framework, where each phase leverages multi-turn dialogues with Vicuna to recognize entities from texts. We name the second phase as Re-Recognition, which recognizes those entities not recognized in the first phase (a.k.a. Recognition). Moreover, we set entity correctness check dialogues in each phase to filter out wrong entities. We evaluate VicunaNER's zero-shot capacity on 10 datasets crossing 5 domains and few-shot capacity on Few-NERD. Experimental results demonstrate that VicunaNER achieves superior performance in both shot settings. Additionally, we conduct comprehensive investigations on Vicuna from multiple perspectives. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Verify-and-Edit: A Knowledge-Enhanced Chain-of-Thought Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03268  
**Abstract:** As large language models (LLMs) have become the norm in NLP, demonstrating good performance in generation and reasoning tasks, one of its most fatal disadvantages is the lack of factual correctness. Generating unfactual texts not only leads to lower performances but also degrades the trust and validity of their applications. Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting improves trust and model performance on complex reasoning tasks by generating interpretable reasoning chains, but still suffers from factuality concerns in knowledge-intensive tasks. In this paper, we propose the Verify-and-Edit framework for CoT prompting, which seeks to increase prediction factuality by post-editing reasoning chains according to external knowledge. Building on top of GPT-3, our framework lead to accuracy improvements in multiple open-domain question-answering tasks. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** FM-ViT: Flexible Modal Vision Transformers for Face Anti-Spoofing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03277  
**Abstract:** The availability of handy multi-modal (i.e., RGB-D) sensors has brought about a surge of face anti-spoofing research. However, the current multi-modal face presentation attack detection (PAD) has two defects: (1) The framework based on multi-modal fusion requires providing modalities consistent with the training input, which seriously limits the deployment scenario. (2) The performance of ConvNet-based model on high fidelity datasets is increasingly limited. In this work, we present a pure transformer-based framework, dubbed the Flexible Modal Vision Transformer (FM-ViT), for face anti-spoofing to flexibly target any single-modal (i.e., RGB) attack scenarios with the help of available multi-modal data. Specifically, FM-ViT retains a specific branch for each modality to capture different modal information and introduces the Cross-Modal Transformer Block (CMTB), which consists of two cascaded attentions named Multi-headed Mutual-Attention (MMA) and Fusion-Attention (MFA) to guide each modal branch to mine potential features from informative patch tokens, and to learn modality-agnostic liveness features by enriching the modal information of own CLS token, respectively. Experiments demonstrate that the single model trained based on FM-ViT can not only flexibly evaluate different modal samples, but also outperforms existing single-modal frameworks by a large margin, and approaches the multi-modal frameworks introduced with smaller FLOPs and model parameters. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Composite Motion Learning with Task Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03286  
**Abstract:** We present a deep learning method for composite and task-driven motion control for physically simulated characters. In contrast to existing data-driven approaches using reinforcement learning that imitate full-body motions, we learn decoupled motions for specific body parts from multiple reference motions simultaneously and directly by leveraging the use of multiple discriminators in a GAN-like setup. In this process, there is no need of any manual work to produce composite reference motions for learning. Instead, the control policy explores by itself how the composite motions can be combined automatically. We further account for multiple task-specific rewards and train a single, multi-objective control policy. To this end, we propose a novel framework for multi-objective learning that adaptively balances the learning of disparate motions from multiple sources and multiple goal-directed control objectives. In addition, as composite motions are typically augmentations of simpler behaviors, we introduce a sample-efficient method for training composite control policies in an incremental manner, where we reuse a pre-trained policy as the meta policy and train a cooperative policy that adapts the meta one for new composite tasks. We show the applicability of our approach on a variety of challenging multi-objective tasks involving both composite motion imitation and multiple goal-directed control. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Open Information Extraction via Chunks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03299  
**Abstract:** Open Information Extraction (OIE) aims to extract relational tuples from open-domain sentences. Existing OIE systems split a sentence into tokens and recognize token spans as tuple relations and arguments. We instead propose Sentence as Chunk sequence (SaC) and recognize chunk spans as tuple relations and arguments. We argue that SaC has better quantitative and qualitative properties for OIE than sentence as token sequence, and evaluate four choices of chunks (i.e., CoNLL chunks, simple phrases, NP chunks, and spans from SpanOIE) against gold OIE tuples. Accordingly, we propose a simple BERT-based model for sentence chunking, and propose Chunk-OIE for tuple extraction on top of SaC. Chunk-OIE achieves state-of-the-art results on multiple OIE datasets, showing that SaC benefits OIE task. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Occupancy Prediction-Guided Neural Planner for Autonomous Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03303  
**Abstract:** Forecasting the scalable future states of surrounding traffic participants in complex traffic scenarios is a critical capability for autonomous vehicles, as it enables safe and feasible decision-making. Recent successes in learning-based prediction and planning have introduced two primary challenges: generating accurate joint predictions for the environment and integrating prediction guidance for planning purposes. To address these challenges, we propose a two-stage integrated neural planning framework, termed OPGP, that incorporates joint prediction guidance from occupancy forecasting. The preliminary planning phase simultaneously outputs the predicted occupancy for various types of traffic actors based on imitation learning objectives, taking into account shared interactions, scene context, and actor dynamics within a unified Transformer structure. Subsequently, the transformed occupancy prediction guides optimization to further inform safe and smooth planning under Frenet coordinates. We train our planner using a large-scale, real-world driving dataset and validate it in open-loop configurations. Our proposed planner outperforms strong learning-based methods, exhibiting improved performance due to occupancy prediction guidance. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Block the Label and Noise: An N-Gram Masked Speller for Chinese Spell  Checking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03314  
**Abstract:** Recently, Chinese Spell Checking(CSC), a task to detect erroneous characters in a sentence and correct them, has attracted extensive interest because of its wide applications in various NLP tasks. Most of the existing methods have utilized BERT to extract semantic information for CSC task. However, these methods directly take sentences with only a few errors as inputs, where the correct characters may leak answers to the model and dampen its ability to capture distant context; while the erroneous characters may disturb the semantic encoding process and result in poor representations. Based on such observations, this paper proposes an n-gram masking layer that masks current and/or surrounding tokens to avoid label leakage and error disturbance. Moreover, considering that the mask strategy may ignore multi-modal information indicated by errors, a novel dot-product gating mechanism is proposed to integrate the phonological and morphological information with semantic representation. Extensive experiments on SIGHAN datasets have demonstrated that the pluggable n-gram masking mechanism can improve the performance of prevalent CSC models and the proposed methods in this paper outperform multiple powerful state-of-the-art models. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** LOGO-Former: Local-Global Spatio-Temporal Transformer for Dynamic Facial  Expression Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03343  
**Abstract:** Previous methods for dynamic facial expression recognition (DFER) in the wild are mainly based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), whose local operations ignore the long-range dependencies in videos. Transformer-based methods for DFER can achieve better performances but result in higher FLOPs and computational costs. To solve these problems, the local-global spatio-temporal Transformer (LOGO-Former) is proposed to capture discriminative features within each frame and model contextual relationships among frames while balancing the complexity. Based on the priors that facial muscles move locally and facial expressions gradually change, we first restrict both the space attention and the time attention to a local window to capture local interactions among feature tokens. Furthermore, we perform the global attention by querying a token with features from each local window iteratively to obtain long-range information of the whole video sequence. In addition, we propose the compact loss regularization term to further encourage the learned features have the minimum intra-class distance and the maximum inter-class distance. Experiments on two in-the-wild dynamic facial expression datasets (i.e., DFEW and FERV39K) indicate that our method provides an effective way to make use of the spatial and temporal dependencies for DFER. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** MindGames: Targeting Theory of Mind in Large Language Models with  Dynamic Epistemic Modal Logic  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03353  
**Abstract:** Theory of Mind (ToM) is a critical component of intelligence, yet accurately measuring it continues to be a subject of debate. Prior research has attempted to apply human ToM assessments to natural language processing models using either human-created standardized tests or rule-based templates. However, these methods primarily focus on simplistic reasoning and require further validation. In this study, we utilize dynamic epistemic logic, which has established overlaps with ToM, to generate more intricate problems. We also introduce novel verbalization techniques to express these problems using natural language. Our findings indicate that certain language model scaling (from 70M to 6B and 350M to 174B) does not consistently yield results better than random chance. While GPT-4 demonstrates improved epistemic reasoning capabilities, there is still room for enhancement. Our code and datasets are publicly available https://github.com/antoinelrnld/modlog https://huggingface.co/datasets/sileod/mindgames 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** DisenBooth: Disentangled Parameter-Efficient Tuning for Subject-Driven  Text-to-Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03374  
**Abstract:** Given a small set of images of a specific subject, subject-driven text-to-image generation aims to generate customized images of the subject according to new text descriptions, which has attracted increasing attention in the community recently. Current subject-driven text-to-image generation methods are mainly based on finetuning a pretrained large-scale text-to-image generation model. However, these finetuning methods map the images of the subject into an embedding highly entangled with subject-identity-unrelated information, which may result in the inconsistency between the generated images and the text descriptions and the changes in the subject identity. To tackle the problem, we propose DisenBooth, a disentangled parameter-efficient tuning framework for subject-driven text-to-image generation. DisenBooth enables generating new images that simultaneously preserve the subject identity and conform to the text descriptions, by disentangling the embedding into an identity-related and an identity-unrelated part. Specifically, DisenBooth is based on the pretrained diffusion models and conducts finetuning in the diffusion denoising process, where a shared identity embedding and an image-specific identity-unrelated embedding are utilized jointly for denoising each image. To make the two embeddings disentangled, two auxiliary objectives are proposed. Additionally, to improve the finetuning efficiency, a parameter-efficient finetuning strategy is adopted. Extensive experiments show that our DisenBooth can faithfully learn well-disentangled identity-related and identity-unrelated embeddings. With the shared identity embedding, DisenBooth demonstrates superior subject-driven text-to-image generation ability. Additionally, DisenBooth provides a more flexible and controllable framework with different combinations of the disentangled embeddings. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Guided Image Synthesis via Initial Image Editing in Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03382  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have the ability to generate high quality images by denoising pure Gaussian noise images. While previous research has primarily focused on improving the control of image generation through adjusting the denoising process, we propose a novel direction of manipulating the initial noise to control the generated image. Through experiments on stable diffusion, we show that blocks of pixels in the initial latent images have a preference for generating specific content, and that modifying these blocks can significantly influence the generated image. In particular, we show that modifying a part of the initial image affects the corresponding region of the generated image while leaving other regions unaffected, which is useful for repainting tasks. Furthermore, we find that the generation preferences of pixel blocks are primarily determined by their values, rather than their position. By moving pixel blocks with a tendency to generate user-desired content to user-specified regions, our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance in layout-to-image generation. Our results highlight the flexibility and power of initial image manipulation in controlling the generated image. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** High-order BDF convolution quadrature for subdiffusion models with a  singular source term  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03384  
**Abstract:** Anomalous diffusion is often modelled in terms of the subdiffusion equation, which can involve a weakly singular source term. For this case, many predominant time stepping methods, including the correction of high-order BDF schemes [{\sc Jin, Li, and Zhou}, SIAM J. Sci. Comput., 39 (2017), A3129--A3152], may suffer from a severe order reduction. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Optimized Table Tokenization for Table Structure Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03393  
**Abstract:** Extracting tables from documents is a crucial task in any document conversion pipeline. Recently, transformer-based models have demonstrated that table-structure can be recognized with impressive accuracy using Image-to-Markup-Sequence (Im2Seq) approaches. Taking only the image of a table, such models predict a sequence of tokens (e.g. in HTML, LaTeX) which represent the structure of the table. Since the token representation of the table structure has a significant impact on the accuracy and run-time performance of any Im2Seq model, we investigate in this paper how table-structure representation can be optimised. We propose a new, optimised table-structure language (OTSL) with a minimized vocabulary and specific rules. The benefits of OTSL are that it reduces the number of tokens to 5 (HTML needs 28+) and shortens the sequence length to half of HTML on average. Consequently, model accuracy improves significantly, inference time is halved compared to HTML-based models, and the predicted table structures are always syntactically correct. This in turn eliminates most post-processing needs. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** GPT for Semi-Automated Data Science: Introducing CAAFE for Context-Aware  Automated Feature Engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03403  
**Abstract:** As the field of automated machine learning (AutoML) advances, it becomes increasingly important to include domain knowledge within these systems. We present an approach for doing so by harnessing the power of large language models (LLMs). Specifically, we introduce Context-Aware Automated Feature Engineering (CAAFE), a feature engineering method for tabular datasets that utilizes an LLM to generate additional semantically meaningful features for tabular datasets based on their descriptions. The method produces both Python code for creating new features and explanations for the utility of the generated features. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Online Gesture Recognition using Transformer and Natural Language  Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03407  
**Abstract:** The Transformer architecture is shown to provide a powerful machine transduction framework for online handwritten gestures corresponding to glyph strokes of natural language sentences. The attention mechanism is successfully used to create latent representations of an end-to-end encoder-decoder model, solving multi-level segmentation while also learning some language features and syntax rules. The additional use of a large decoding space with some learned Byte-Pair-Encoding (BPE) is shown to provide robustness to ablated inputs and syntax rules. The encoder stack was directly fed with spatio-temporal data tokens potentially forming an infinitely large input vocabulary, an approach that finds applications beyond that of this work. Encoder transfer learning capabilities is also demonstrated on several languages resulting in faster optimisation and shared parameters. A new supervised dataset of online handwriting gestures suitable for generic handwriting recognition tasks was used to successfully train a small transformer model to an average normalised Levenshtein accuracy of 96% on English or German sentences and 94% in French. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Using ChatGPT for Entity Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03423  
**Abstract:** Entity Matching is the task of deciding if two entity descriptions refer to the same real-world entity. State-of-the-art entity matching methods often rely on fine-tuning Transformer models such as BERT or RoBERTa. Two major drawbacks of using these models for entity matching are that (i) the models require significant amounts of fine-tuning data for reaching a good performance and (ii) the fine-tuned models are not robust concerning out-of-distribution entities. In this paper, we investigate using ChatGPT for entity matching as a more robust, training data-efficient alternative to traditional Transformer models. We perform experiments along three dimensions: (i) general prompt design, (ii) in-context learning, and (iii) provision of higher-level matching knowledge. We show that ChatGPT is competitive with a fine-tuned RoBERTa model, reaching an average zero-shot performance of 83% F1 on a challenging matching task on which RoBERTa requires 2000 training examples for reaching a similar performance. Adding in-context demonstrations to the prompts further improves the F1 by up to 5% even using only a small set of 20 handpicked examples. Finally, we show that guiding the zero-shot model by stating higher-level matching rules leads to similar gains as providing in-context examples. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Simulating H.P. Lovecraft horror literature with the ChatGPT large  language model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03429  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a novel approach to simulating H.P. Lovecraft's horror literature using the ChatGPT large language model, specifically the GPT-4 architecture. Our study aims to generate text that emulates Lovecraft's unique writing style and themes, while also examining the effectiveness of prompt engineering techniques in guiding the model's output. To achieve this, we curated a prompt containing several specialized literature references and employed advanced prompt engineering methods. We conducted an empirical evaluation of the generated text by administering a survey to a sample of undergraduate students. Utilizing statistical hypothesis testing, we assessed the students ability to distinguish between genuine Lovecraft works and those generated by our model. Our findings demonstrate that the participants were unable to reliably differentiate between the two, indicating the effectiveness of the GPT-4 model and our prompt engineering techniques in emulating Lovecraft's literary style. In addition to presenting the GPT model's capabilities, this paper provides a comprehensive description of its underlying architecture and offers a comparative analysis with related work that simulates other notable authors and philosophers, such as Dennett. By exploring the potential of large language models in the context of literary emulation, our study contributes to the body of research on the applications and limitations of these models in various creative domains. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** A technical note on bilinear layers for interpretability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03452  
**Abstract:** The ability of neural networks to represent more features than neurons makes interpreting them challenging. This phenomenon, known as superposition, has spurred efforts to find architectures that are more interpretable than standard multilayer perceptrons (MLPs) with elementwise activation functions. In this note, I examine bilinear layers, which are a type of MLP layer that are mathematically much easier to analyze while simultaneously performing better than standard MLPs. Although they are nonlinear functions of their input, I demonstrate that bilinear layers can be expressed using only linear operations and third order tensors. We can integrate this expression for bilinear layers into a mathematical framework for transformer circuits, which was previously limited to attention-only transformers. These results suggest that bilinear layers are easier to analyze mathematically than current architectures and thus may lend themselves to deeper safety insights by allowing us to talk more formally about circuits in neural networks. Additionally, bilinear layers may offer an alternative path for mechanistic interpretability through understanding the mechanisms of feature construction instead of enumerating a (potentially exponentially) large number of features in large models. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Generative Steganography Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03472  
**Abstract:** Generative steganography (GS) is an emerging technique that generates stego images directly from secret data. Various GS methods based on GANs or Flow have been developed recently. However, existing GAN-based GS methods cannot completely recover the hidden secret data due to the lack of network invertibility, while Flow-based methods produce poor image quality due to the stringent reversibility restriction in each module. To address this issue, we propose a novel GS scheme called "Generative Steganography Diffusion" (GSD) by devising an invertible diffusion model named "StegoDiffusion". It not only generates realistic stego images but also allows for 100\% recovery of the hidden secret data. The proposed StegoDiffusion model leverages a non-Markov chain with a fast sampling technique to achieve efficient stego image generation. By constructing an ordinary differential equation (ODE) based on the transition probability of the generation process in StegoDiffusion, secret data and stego images can be converted to each other through the approximate solver of ODE -- Euler iteration formula, enabling the use of irreversible but more expressive network structures to achieve model invertibility. Our proposed GSD has the advantages of both reversibility and high performance, significantly outperforming existing GS methods in all metrics. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Iterative $α$-(de)Blending: a Minimalist Deterministic Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03486  
**Abstract:** We derive a minimalist but powerful deterministic denoising-diffusion model. While denoising diffusion has shown great success in many domains, its underlying theory remains largely inaccessible to non-expert users. Indeed, an understanding of graduate-level concepts such as Langevin dynamics or score matching appears to be required to grasp how it works. We propose an alternative approach that requires no more than undergrad calculus and probability. We consider two densities and observe what happens when random samples from these densities are blended (linearly interpolated). We show that iteratively blending and deblending samples produces random paths between the two densities that converge toward a deterministic mapping. This mapping can be evaluated with a neural network trained to deblend samples. We obtain a model that behaves like deterministic denoising diffusion: it iteratively maps samples from one density (e.g., Gaussian noise) to another (e.g., cat images). However, compared to the state-of-the-art alternative, our model is simpler to derive, simpler to implement, more numerically stable, achieves higher quality results in our experiments, and has interesting connections to computer graphics. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Cancer Hallmark Classification Using Bidirectional Encoder  Representations From Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03501  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel approach to accurately classify the hallmarks of cancer, which is a crucial task in cancer research. Our proposed method utilizes the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) architecture, which has shown exceptional performance in various downstream applications. By applying transfer learning, we fine-tuned the pre-trained BERT model on a small corpus of biomedical text documents related to cancer. The outcomes of our experimental investigations demonstrate that our approach attains a noteworthy accuracy of 94.45%, surpassing almost all prior findings with a substantial increase of at least 8.04% as reported in the literature. These findings highlight the effectiveness of our proposed model in accurately classifying and comprehending text documents for cancer research, thus contributing significantly to the field. As cancer remains one of the top ten leading causes of death globally, our approach holds great promise in advancing cancer research and improving patient outcomes. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Diffusion Explainer: Visual Explanation for Text-to-image Stable  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03509  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based generative models' impressive ability to create convincing images has captured global attention. However, their complex internal structures and operations often make them difficult for non-experts to understand. We present Diffusion Explainer, the first interactive visualization tool that explains how Stable Diffusion transforms text prompts into images. Diffusion Explainer tightly integrates a visual overview of Stable Diffusion's complex components with detailed explanations of their underlying operations, enabling users to fluidly transition between multiple levels of abstraction through animations and interactive elements. By comparing the evolutions of image representations guided by two related text prompts over refinement timesteps, users can discover the impact of prompts on image generation. Diffusion Explainer runs locally in users' web browsers without the need for installation or specialized hardware, broadening the public's education access to modern AI techniques. Our open-sourced tool is available at: https://poloclub.github.io/diffusion-explainer/. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Parameter-Efficient Cross-lingual Transfer of Vision and Language Models  via Translation-based Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03510  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained vision and language models such as CLIP have witnessed remarkable success in connecting images and texts with a primary focus on English texts. Despite recent efforts to extend CLIP to support other languages, disparities in performance among different languages have been observed due to uneven resource availability. Additionally, current cross-lingual transfer methods of those pre-trained models would consume excessive resources for a large number of languages. Therefore, we propose a new parameter-efficient cross-lingual transfer learning framework that utilizes a translation-based alignment method to mitigate multilingual disparities and explores parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods for parameter-efficient cross-lingual transfer. Extensive experiments on XTD and Multi30K datasets, covering 11 languages under zero-shot, few-shot, and full-dataset learning scenarios, show that our framework significantly reduces the multilingual disparities among languages and improves cross-lingual transfer results, especially in low-resource scenarios, while only keeping and fine-tuning an extremely small number of parameters compared to the full model (e.g., Our framework only requires 0.16\% additional parameters of a full-model for each language in the few-shot learning scenario). 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Building Multimodal AI Chatbots  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03512  
**Abstract:** This work aims to create a multimodal AI system that chats with humans and shares relevant photos. While earlier works were limited to dialogues about specific objects or scenes within images, recent works have incorporated images into open-domain dialogues. However, their response generators are unimodal, accepting text input but no image input, thus prone to generating responses contradictory to the images shared in the dialogue. Therefore, this work proposes a complete chatbot system using two multimodal deep learning models: an image retriever that understands texts and a response generator that understands images. The image retriever, implemented by ViT and BERT, selects the most relevant image given the dialogue history and a database of images. The response generator, implemented by ViT and GPT-2/DialoGPT, generates an appropriate response given the dialogue history and the most recently retrieved image. The two models are trained and evaluated on PhotoChat, an open-domain dialogue dataset in which a photo is shared in each session. In automatic evaluation, the proposed image retriever outperforms existing baselines VSE++ and SCAN with Recall@1/5/10 of 0.1/0.3/0.4 and MRR of 0.2 when ranking 1,000 images. The proposed response generator also surpasses the baseline Divter with PPL of 16.9, BLEU-1/2 of 0.13/0.03, and Distinct-1/2 of 0.97/0.86, showing a significant improvement in PPL by -42.8 and BLEU-1/2 by +0.07/0.02. In human evaluation with a Likert scale of 1-5, the complete multimodal chatbot system receives higher image-groundedness of 4.3 and engagingness of 4.3, along with competitive fluency of 4.1, coherence of 3.9, and humanness of 3.1, when compared to other chatbot variants. The source code is available at: https://github.com/minniie/multimodal_chat.git. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** ChatGraph: Interpretable Text Classification by Converting ChatGPT  Knowledge to Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03513  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT, as a recently launched large language model (LLM), has shown superior performance in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, two major limitations hinder its potential applications: (1) the inflexibility of finetuning on downstream tasks and (2) the lack of interpretability in the decision-making process. To tackle these limitations, we propose a novel framework that leverages the power of ChatGPT for specific tasks, such as text classification, while improving its interpretability. The proposed framework conducts a knowledge graph extraction task to extract refined and structural knowledge from the raw data using ChatGPT. The rich knowledge is then converted into a graph, which is further used to train an interpretable linear classifier to make predictions. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we conduct experiments on four datasets. The result shows that our method can significantly improve the performance compared to directly utilizing ChatGPT for text classification tasks. And our method provides a more transparent decision-making process compared with previous text classification methods. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Can Large Language Models Transform Computational Social Science?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03514  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT are capable of successfully performing many language processing tasks zero-shot (without the need for training data). If this capacity also applies to the coding of social phenomena like persuasiveness and political ideology, then LLMs could effectively transform Computational Social Science (CSS). This work provides a road map for using LLMs as CSS tools. Towards this end, we contribute a set of prompting best practices and an extensive evaluation pipeline to measure the zero-shot performance of 13 language models on 24 representative CSS benchmarks. On taxonomic labeling tasks (classification), LLMs fail to outperform the best fine-tuned models but still achieve fair levels of agreement with humans. On free-form coding tasks (generation), LLMs produce explanations that often exceed the quality of crowdworkers' gold references. We conclude that today's LLMs can radically augment the CSS research pipeline in two ways: (1) serving as zero-shot data annotators on human annotation teams, and (2) bootstrapping challenging creative generation tasks (e.g., explaining the hidden meaning behind text). In summary, LLMs can significantly reduce costs and increase efficiency of social science analysis in partnership with humans. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Leveraging BERT Language Model for Arabic Long Document Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03519  
**Abstract:** Given the number of Arabic speakers worldwide and the notably large amount of content in the web today in some fields such as law, medicine, or even news, documents of considerable length are produced regularly. Classifying those documents using traditional learning models is often impractical since extended length of the documents increases computational requirements to an unsustainable level. Thus, it is necessary to customize these models specifically for long textual documents. In this paper we propose two simple but effective models to classify long length Arabic documents. We also fine-tune two different models-namely, Longformer and RoBERT, for the same task and compare their results to our models. Both of our models outperform the Longformer and RoBERT in this task over two different datasets. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Exploring Softly Masked Language Modelling for Controllable Symbolic  Music Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03530  
**Abstract:** This document presents some early explorations of applying Softly Masked Language Modelling (SMLM) to symbolic music generation. SMLM can be seen as a generalisation of masked language modelling (MLM), where instead of each element of the input set being either known or unknown, elements can be partly known. We demonstrate some results of applying SMLM to constrained symbolic music generation using a transformer encoder architecture. Several audio examples are available at https://erl-j.github.io/smlm-web-supplement/ 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** A vector quantized masked autoencoder for audiovisual speech emotion  recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03568  
**Abstract:** While fully-supervised models have been shown to be effective for audiovisual speech emotion recognition (SER), the limited availability of labeled data remains a major challenge in the field. To address this issue, self-supervised learning approaches, such as masked autoencoders (MAEs), have gained popularity as potential solutions. In this paper, we propose the VQ-MAE-AV model, a vector quantized MAE specifically designed for audiovisual speech self-supervised representation learning. Unlike existing multimodal MAEs that rely on the processing of the raw audiovisual speech data, the proposed method employs a self-supervised paradigm based on discrete audio and visual speech representations learned by two pre-trained vector quantized variational autoencoders. Experimental results show that the proposed approach, which is pre-trained on the VoxCeleb2 database and fine-tuned on standard emotional audiovisual speech datasets, outperforms the state-of-the-art audiovisual SER methods. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** A Multimodal Dynamical Variational Autoencoder for Audiovisual Speech  Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03582  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a multimodal \textit{and} dynamical VAE (MDVAE) applied to unsupervised audio-visual speech representation learning. The latent space is structured to dissociate the latent dynamical factors that are shared between the modalities from those that are specific to each modality. A static latent variable is also introduced to encode the information that is constant over time within an audiovisual speech sequence. The model is trained in an unsupervised manner on an audiovisual emotional speech dataset, in two stages. In the first stage, a vector quantized VAE (VQ-VAE) is learned independently for each modality, without temporal modeling. The second stage consists in learning the MDVAE model on the intermediate representation of the VQ-VAEs before quantization. The disentanglement between static versus dynamical and modality-specific versus modality-common information occurs during this second training stage. Extensive experiments are conducted to investigate how audiovisual speech latent factors are encoded in the latent space of MDVAE. These experiments include manipulating audiovisual speech, audiovisual facial image denoising, and audiovisual speech emotion recognition. The results show that MDVAE effectively combines the audio and visual information in its latent space. They also show that the learned static representation of audiovisual speech can be used for emotion recognition with few labeled data, and with better accuracy compared with unimodal baselines and a state-of-the-art supervised model based on an audiovisual transformer architecture. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Data Curation for Image Captioning with Text-to-Image Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03610  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in image captioning are mainly driven by large-scale vision-language pretraining, relying heavily on computational resources and increasingly large multimodal datasets. Instead of scaling up pretraining data, we ask whether it is possible to improve performance by improving the quality of the samples in existing datasets. We pursue this question through two approaches to data curation: one that assumes that some examples should be avoided due to mismatches between the image and caption, and one that assumes that the mismatch can be addressed by replacing the image, for which we use the state-of-the-art Stable Diffusion model. These approaches are evaluated using the BLIP model on MS COCO and Flickr30K in both finetuning and few-shot learning settings. Our simple yet effective approaches consistently outperform baselines, indicating that better image captioning models can be trained by curating existing resources. Finally, we conduct a human study to understand the errors made by the Stable Diffusion model and highlight directions for future work in text-to-image generation. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Conditional Diffusion Feature Refinement for Continuous Sign Language  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03614  
**Abstract:** In this work, we are dedicated to leveraging the denoising diffusion models' success and formulating feature refinement as the autoencoder-formed diffusion process. The state-of-the-art CSLR framework consists of a spatial module, a visual module, a sequence module, and a sequence learning function. However, this framework has faced sequence module overfitting caused by the objective function and small-scale available benchmarks, resulting in insufficient model training. To overcome the overfitting problem, some CSLR studies enforce the sequence module to learn more visual temporal information or be guided by more informative supervision to refine its representations. In this work, we propose a novel autoencoder-formed conditional diffusion feature refinement~(ACDR) to refine the sequence representations to equip desired properties by learning the encoding-decoding optimization process in an end-to-end way. Specifically, for the ACDR, a noising Encoder is proposed to progressively add noise equipped with semantic conditions to the sequence representations. And a denoising Decoder is proposed to progressively denoise the noisy sequence representations with semantic conditions. Therefore, the sequence representations can be imbued with the semantics of provided semantic conditions. Further, a semantic constraint is employed to prevent the denoised sequence representations from semantic corruption. Extensive experiments are conducted to validate the effectiveness of our ACDR, benefiting state-of-the-art methods and achieving a notable gain on three benchmarks. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Uncertainty Quantification for Fisher-Kolmogorov Equation on Graphs with  Application to Patient-Specific Alzheimer Disease  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03619  
**Abstract:** The Fisher-Kolmogorov equation is a diffusion-reaction PDE that is used to model the accumulation of prionic proteins, which are responsible for many different neurological disorders. Likely, the most important and studied misfolded protein in literature is the Amyloid-$\beta$, responsible for the onset of Alzheimer disease. Starting from medical images we construct a reduced-order model based on a graph brain connectome. The reaction coefficient of the proteins is modelled as a stochastic random field, taking into account all the many different underlying physical processes, which can hardly be measured. Its probability distribution is inferred by means of the Monte Carlo Markov Chain method applied to clinical data. The resulting model is patient-specific and can be employed for predicting the disease's future development. Forward uncertainty quantification techniques (Monte Carlo and sparse grid stochastic collocation) are applied with the aim of quantifying the impact of the variability of the reaction coefficient on the progression of protein accumulation within the next 20 years. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Retrieval Augmented Chest X-Ray Report Generation using OpenAI GPT  models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03660  
**Abstract:** We propose Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) as an approach for automated radiology report writing that leverages multimodally aligned embeddings from a contrastively pretrained vision language model for retrieval of relevant candidate radiology text for an input radiology image and a general domain generative model like OpenAI text-davinci-003, gpt-3.5-turbo and gpt-4 for report generation using the relevant radiology text retrieved. This approach keeps hallucinated generations under check and provides capabilities to generate report content in the format we desire leveraging the instruction following capabilities of these generative models. Our approach achieves better clinical metrics with a BERTScore of 0.2865 ({\Delta}+ 25.88%) and Semb score of 0.4026 ({\Delta}+ 6.31%). Our approach can be broadly relevant for different clinical settings as it allows to augment the automated radiology report generation process with content relevant for that setting while also having the ability to inject user intents and requirements in the prompts as part of the report generation process to modulate the content and format of the generated reports as applicable for that clinical setting. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Predicting COVID-19 and pneumonia complications from admission texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03661  
**Abstract:** In this paper we present a novel approach to risk assessment for patients hospitalized with pneumonia or COVID-19 based on their admission reports. We applied a Longformer neural network to admission reports and other textual data available shortly after admission to compute risk scores for the patients. We used patient data of multiple European hospitals to demonstrate that our approach outperforms the Transformer baselines. Our experiments show that the proposed model generalises across institutions and diagnoses. Also, our method has several other advantages described in the paper. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** DAMO-NLP at SemEval-2023 Task 2: A Unified Retrieval-augmented System  for Multilingual Named Entity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03688  
**Abstract:** The MultiCoNER \RNum{2} shared task aims to tackle multilingual named entity recognition (NER) in fine-grained and noisy scenarios, and it inherits the semantic ambiguity and low-context setting of the MultiCoNER \RNum{1} task. To cope with these problems, the previous top systems in the MultiCoNER \RNum{1} either incorporate the knowledge bases or gazetteers. However, they still suffer from insufficient knowledge, limited context length, single retrieval strategy. In this paper, our team \textbf{DAMO-NLP} proposes a unified retrieval-augmented system (U-RaNER) for fine-grained multilingual NER. We perform error analysis on the previous top systems and reveal that their performance bottleneck lies in insufficient knowledge. Also, we discover that the limited context length causes the retrieval knowledge to be invisible to the model. To enhance the retrieval context, we incorporate the entity-centric Wikidata knowledge base, while utilizing the infusion approach to broaden the contextual scope of the model. Also, we explore various search strategies and refine the quality of retrieval knowledge. Our system\footnote{We will release the dataset, code, and scripts of our system at {\small \url{https://github.com/modelscope/AdaSeq/tree/master/examples/U-RaNER}}.} wins 9 out of 13 tracks in the MultiCoNER \RNum{2} shared task. Additionally, we compared our system with ChatGPT, one of the large language models which have unlocked strong capabilities on many tasks. The results show that there is still much room for improvement for ChatGPT on the extraction task. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** COLA: How to adapt vision-language models to Compose Objects Localized  with Attributes?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03689  
**Abstract:** Compositional reasoning is a hallmark of human visual intelligence; yet despite the size of large vision-language models, they struggle to represent simple compositions by combining objects with their attributes. To measure this lack of compositional capability, we design Cola, a text-to-image retrieval benchmark to Compose Objects Localized with Attributes. Using Cola as a testbed, we explore modeling designs to adapt pre-trained vision-language models to reason compositionally about multiple attributes attached to multiple objects. We explore 6 finetuning strategies on 2 seminal vision-language models, using 3 finetuning datasets and 2 test benchmarks (Cola and CREPE). Surprisingly, our optimal finetuning strategy improves a 151M parameter CLIP, which disjointly encodes image and language during pretraining, to perform as well as a 241M parameter FLAVA, which uses a multi-modal transformer encoder during pretraining to attend over both vision and language modalities. This optimal finetuning strategy is a lightweight multi-modal adapter that jointly attends over both image and language features generated by the pretrained model. We show this works better than common strategies such as prompt/fine-tuning, or tuning a comparable number of unimodal layers. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Vera: A General-Purpose Plausibility Estimation Model for Commonsense  Statements  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03695  
**Abstract:** Despite the much discussed capabilities of today's language models, they are still prone to silly and unexpected commonsense failures. We consider a retrospective verification approach that reflects on the correctness of LM outputs, and introduce Vera, a general-purpose model that estimates the plausibility of declarative statements based on commonsense knowledge. Trained on ~7M commonsense statements created from 19 QA datasets and two large-scale knowledge bases, and with a combination of three training objectives, Vera is a versatile model that effectively separates correct from incorrect statements across diverse commonsense domains. When applied to solving commonsense problems in the verification format, Vera substantially outperforms existing models that can be repurposed for commonsense verification, and it further exhibits generalization capabilities to unseen tasks and provides well-calibrated outputs. We find that Vera excels at filtering LM-generated commonsense knowledge and is useful in detecting erroneous commonsense statements generated by models like ChatGPT in real-world settings. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** LMEye: An Interactive Perception Network for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03701  
**Abstract:** Training a Large Visual Language Model (LVLM) from scratch, like GPT-4, is resource-intensive. Our paper proposes an alternative method called LMEye, a play-plug-in Interactive Perception Network for Large Language Models (LLMs), aiming to improve the accuracy of image understanding for the LVLM. Previous methods that infuse visual information into LLMs utilize a static visual mapping network, but lack dynamic interaction between the LLMs and visual information. LMEye addresses this issue by allowing the LLM to incorporate the visual information that aligned with human instruction. Specifically, the LMEye network consists of a static visual mapping network to provide the basic perception of an image to LLMs. Then, it also contains additional linear layers responsible for acquiring requests from LLMs, decomposing image features, and transmitting the interleaved information to LLMs, respectively. In this way, LLMs act to be in charge of understanding human instructions, sending it to the interactive perception network, and generating the response based on the interleaved multimodal information. We evaluate LMEye through extensive experiments on multimodal question answering and reasoning tasks, demonstrating that it significantly improves the zero-shot performance of LLMs on multimodal tasks compared to previous methods. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Governance of the AI, by the AI, and for the AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03719  
**Abstract:** Over the past half century, there have been several false dawns during which the "arrival" of world-changing artificial intelligence (AI) has been heralded. Tempting fate, the authors believe the age of AI has, indeed, finally arrived. Powerful image generators, such as DALL-E2 and Midjourney have suddenly allowed anyone with access the ability easily to create rich and complex art. In a similar vein, text generators, such as GPT3.5 (including ChatGPT) and BLOOM, allow users to compose detailed written descriptions of many topics of interest. And, it is even possible now for a person without extensive expertise in writing software to use AI to generate code capable of myriad applications. While AI will continue to evolve and improve, probably at a rapid rate, the current state of AI is already ushering in profound changes to many different sectors of society. Every new technology challenges the ability of humanity to govern it wisely. However, governance is usually viewed as both possible and necessary due to the disruption new technology often poses to social structures, industries, the environment, and other important human concerns. In this article, we offer an analysis of a range of interactions between AI and governance, with the hope that wise decisions may be made that maximize benefits and minimize costs. The article addresses two main aspects of this relationship: the governance of AI by humanity, and the governance of humanity by AI. The approach we have taken is itself informed by AI, as this article was written collaboratively by the authors and ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** ChatGPT and Works Scholarly: Best Practices and Legal Pitfalls in  Writing with AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03722  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) have raised questions about whether the use of AI is appropriate and legal in various professional contexts. Here, we present a perspective on how scholars may approach writing in conjunction with AI, and offer approaches to evaluating whether or not such AI-writing violates copyright or falls within the safe harbor of fair use. We present a set of best practices for standard of care with regard to plagiarism, copyright, and fair use. As AI is likely to grow more capable in the coming years, it is appropriate to begin integrating AI into scholarly writing activities. We offer a framework for establishing sound legal and scholarly foundations. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Otter: A Multi-Modal Model with In-Context Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03726  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant universal capabilities as few/zero-shot learners in various tasks due to their pre-training on vast amounts of text data, as exemplified by GPT-3, which boosted to InstrctGPT and ChatGPT, effectively following natural language instructions to accomplish real-world tasks. In this paper, we propose to introduce instruction tuning into multi-modal models, motivated by the Flamingo model's upstream interleaved format pretraining dataset. We adopt a similar approach to construct our MultI-Modal In-Context Instruction Tuning (MIMIC-IT) dataset. We then introduce Otter, a multi-modal model based on OpenFlamingo (open-sourced version of DeepMind's Flamingo), trained on MIMIC-IT and showcasing improved instruction-following ability and in-context learning. We also optimize OpenFlamingo's implementation for researchers, democratizing the required training resources from 1$\times$ A100 GPU to 4$\times$ RTX-3090 GPUs, and integrate both OpenFlamingo and Otter into Huggingface Transformers for more researchers to incorporate the models into their customized training and inference pipelines. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Decentralized diffusion-based learning under non-parametric limited  prior knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03295  
**Abstract:** We study the problem of diffusion-based network learning of a nonlinear phenomenon, $m$, from local agents' measurements collected in a noisy environment. For a decentralized network and information spreading merely between directly neighboring nodes, we propose a non-parametric learning algorithm, that avoids raw data exchange and requires only mild \textit{a priori} knowledge about $m$. Non-asymptotic estimation error bounds are derived for the proposed method. Its potential applications are illustrated through simulation experiments. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Domain-agnostic segmentation of thalamic nuclei from joint structural  and diffusion MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03413  
**Abstract:** The human thalamus is a highly connected subcortical grey-matter structure within the brain. It comprises dozens of nuclei with different function and connectivity, which are affected differently by disease. For this reason, there is growing interest in studying the thalamic nuclei in vivo with MRI. Tools are available to segment the thalamus from 1 mm T1 scans, but the contrast of the lateral and internal boundaries is too faint to produce reliable segmentations. Some tools have attempted to incorporate information from diffusion MRI in the segmentation to refine these boundaries, but do not generalise well across diffusion MRI acquisitions. Here we present the first CNN that can segment thalamic nuclei from T1 and diffusion data of any resolution without retraining or fine tuning. Our method builds on a public histological atlas of the thalamic nuclei and silver standard segmentations on high-quality diffusion data obtained with a recent Bayesian adaptive segmentation tool. We combine these with an approximate degradation model for fast domain randomisation during training. Our CNN produces a segmentation at 0.7 mm isotropic resolution, irrespective of the resolution of the input. Moreover, it uses a parsimonious model of the diffusion signal at each voxel (fractional anisotropy and principal eigenvector) that is compatible with virtually any set of directions and b-values, including huge amounts of legacy data. We show results of our proposed method on three heterogeneous datasets acquired on dozens of different scanners. An implementation of the method is publicly available at https://freesurfer.net/fswiki/ThalamicNucleiDTI. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Segmentation of fundus vascular images based on a dual-attention  mechanism  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.03617  
**Abstract:** Accurately segmenting blood vessels in retinal fundus images is crucial in the early screening, diagnosing, and evaluating some ocular diseases. However, significant light variations and non-uniform contrast in these images make segmentation quite challenging. Thus, this paper employ an attention fusion mechanism that combines the channel attention and spatial attention mechanisms constructed by Transformer to extract information from retinal fundus images in both spatial and channel dimensions. To eliminate noise from the encoder image, a spatial attention mechanism is introduced in the skip connection. Moreover, a Dropout layer is employed to randomly discard some neurons, which can prevent overfitting of the neural network and improve its generalization performance. Experiments were conducted on publicly available datasets DERIVE, STARE, and CHASEDB1. The results demonstrate that our method produces satisfactory results compared to some recent retinal fundus image segmentation algorithms. 

