<html>
        <body>
        <p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Defending against Adversarial Audio via Diffusion Model<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01507<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Deep learning models have been widely used in commercial acoustic systems in recent years. However, adversarial audio examples can cause abnormal behaviors for those acoustic systems, while being hard for humans to perceive. Various methods, such as transformation-based defenses and adversarial training, have been proposed to protect acoustic systems from adversarial attacks, but they are less effective against adaptive attacks. Furthermore, directly applying the methods from the image domain can lead to suboptimal results because of the unique properties of audio data. In this paper, we propose an adversarial purification-based defense pipeline, AudioPure, for acoustic systems via off-the-shelf diffusion models. Taking advantage of the strong generation ability of diffusion models, AudioPure first adds a small amount of noise to the adversarial audio and then runs the reverse sampling step to purify the noisy audio and recover clean audio. AudioPure is a plug-and-play method that can be directly applied to any pretrained classifier without any fine-tuning or re-training. We conduct extensive experiments on speech command recognition task to evaluate the robustness of AudioPure. Our method is effective against diverse adversarial attacks (e.g. $\mathcal{L}_2$ or $\mathcal{L}_\infty$-norm). It outperforms the existing methods under both strong adaptive white-box and black-box attacks bounded by $\mathcal{L}_2$ or $\mathcal{L}_\infty$-norm (up to +20\% in robust accuracy). Besides, we also evaluate the certified robustness for perturbations bounded by $\mathcal{L}_2$-norm via randomized smoothing. Our pipeline achieves a higher certified accuracy than baselines. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: INO at Factify 2: Structure Coherence based Multi-Modal Fact  Verification<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01510<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: This paper describes our approach to the multi-modal fact verification (FACTIFY) challenge at AAAI2023. In recent years, with the widespread use of social media, fake news can spread rapidly and negatively impact social security. Automatic claim verification becomes more and more crucial to combat fake news. In fact verification involving multiple modal data, there should be a structural coherence between claim and document. Therefore, we proposed a structure coherence-based multi-modal fact verification scheme to classify fake news. Our structure coherence includes the following four aspects: sentence length, vocabulary similarity, semantic similarity, and image similarity. Specifically, CLIP and Sentence BERT are combined to extract text features, and ResNet50 is used to extract image features. In addition, we also extract the length of the text as well as the lexical similarity. Then the features were concatenated and passed through the random forest classifier. Finally, our weighted average F1 score has reached 0.8079, achieving 2nd place in FACTIFY2. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Self-attention in Vision Transformers Performs Perceptual Grouping, Not  Attention<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01542<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recently, a considerable number of studies in computer vision involves deep neural architectures called vision transformers. Visual processing in these models incorporates computational models that are claimed to implement attention mechanisms. Despite an increasing body of work that attempts to understand the role of attention mechanisms in vision transformers, their effect is largely unknown. Here, we asked if the attention mechanisms in vision transformers exhibit similar effects as those known in human visual attention. To answer this question, we revisited the attention formulation in these models and found that despite the name, computationally, these models perform a special class of relaxation labeling with similarity grouping effects. Additionally, whereas modern experimental findings reveal that human visual attention involves both feed-forward and feedback mechanisms, the purely feed-forward architecture of vision transformers suggests that attention in these models will not have the same effects as those known in humans. To quantify these observations, we evaluated grouping performance in a family of vision transformers. Our results suggest that self-attention modules group figures in the stimuli based on similarity in visual features such as color. Also, in a singleton detection experiment as an instance of saliency detection, we studied if these models exhibit similar effects as those of feed-forward visual salience mechanisms utilized in human visual attention. We found that generally, the transformer-based attention modules assign more salience either to distractors or the ground. Together, our study suggests that the attention mechanisms in vision transformers perform similarity grouping and not attention. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Improving GAN Training via Feature Space Shrinkage<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01559<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Due to the outstanding capability for data generation, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have attracted considerable attention in unsupervised learning. However, training GANs is difficult, since the training distribution is dynamic for the discriminator, leading to unstable image representation. In this paper, we address the problem of training GANs from a novel perspective, \emph{i.e.,} robust image classification. Motivated by studies on robust image representation, we propose a simple yet effective module, namely AdaptiveMix, for GANs, which shrinks the regions of training data in the image representation space of the discriminator. Considering it is intractable to directly bound feature space, we propose to construct hard samples and narrow down the feature distance between hard and easy samples. The hard samples are constructed by mixing a pair of training images. We evaluate the effectiveness of our AdaptiveMix with widely-used and state-of-the-art GAN architectures. The evaluation results demonstrate that our AdaptiveMix can facilitate the training of GANs and effectively improve the image quality of generated samples. We also show that our AdaptiveMix can be further applied to image classification and Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) detection tasks, by equipping it with state-of-the-art methods. Extensive experiments on seven publicly available datasets show that our method effectively boosts the performance of baselines. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/WentianZhang-ML/AdaptiveMix. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Sparse MoE as the New Dropout: Scaling Dense and Self-Slimmable  Transformers<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01610<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Despite their remarkable achievement, gigantic transformers encounter significant drawbacks, including exorbitant computational and memory footprints during training, as well as severe collapse evidenced by a high degree of parameter redundancy. Sparsely-activated Mixture-of-Experts (SMoEs) have shown promise to mitigate the issue of training efficiency, yet they are prone to (1) redundant experts due to representational collapse; and (2) poor expert scalability for inference and downstream fine-tuning, primarily due to overfitting of the learned routing policy to the number of activated experts during training. As recent research efforts are predominantly focused on improving routing policies to encourage expert specializations, this work focuses on exploring the overlooked scalability bottleneck of SMoEs and leveraging it to effectively scale dense transformers. To this end, we propose a new plug-and-play training framework, SMoE-Dropout, to enable scaling transformers to better accuracy in their full capacity without collapse. Specifically, SMoE-Dropout consists of a randomly initialized and fixed router network to activate experts and gradually increases the activated expert number as training progresses over time. Transformers trained by SMoE-Dropout naturally exhibit a self-slimmable property subject to resource availability, offering smooth and consistent performance boosts with an increase in activated experts during inference or fine-tuning. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance and substantial computation savings of SMoE-Dropout, compared to dense training baselines with equivalent parameter counts. In particular, our trained BERT outperforms its densely trained counterpart with consistent improvements of {1.03%, 0.78%, 1.09%} on challenging reasoning tasks {ASDiv-A, MAWPS, SVAMP}, respectively. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: GlucoSynth: Generating Differentially-Private Synthetic Glucose Traces<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01621<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In this paper we focus on the problem of generating high-quality, private synthetic glucose traces, a task generalizable to many other time series sources. Existing methods for time series data synthesis, such as those using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), are not able to capture the innate characteristics of glucose data and, in terms of privacy, either do not include any formal privacy guarantees or, in order to uphold a strong formal privacy guarantee, severely degrade the utility of the synthetic data. Therefore, in this paper we present GlucoSynth, a novel privacy-preserving GAN framework to generate synthetic glucose traces. The core intuition in our approach is to conserve relationships amongst motifs (glucose events) within the traces, in addition to typical temporal dynamics. Moreover, we integrate differential privacy into the framework to provide strong formal privacy guarantees. Finally, we provide a comprehensive evaluation on the real-world utility of the data using 1.2 million glucose traces <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: RIOT: Recursive Inertial Odometry Transformer for Localisation from  Low-Cost IMU Measurements<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01641<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Inertial localisation is an important technique as it enables ego-motion estimation in conditions where external observers are unavailable. However, low-cost inertial sensors are inherently corrupted by bias and noise, which lead to unbound errors, making straight integration for position intractable. Traditional mathematical approaches are reliant on prior system knowledge, geometric theories and are constrained by predefined dynamics. Recent advances in deep learning, that benefit from ever-increasing volumes of data and computational power, allow for data driven solutions that offer more comprehensive understanding. Existing deep inertial odometry solutions rely on estimating the latent states, such as velocity, or are dependant on fixed sensor positions and periodic motion patterns. In this work we propose taking the traditional state estimation recursive methodology and applying it in the deep learning domain. Our approach, which incorporates the true position priors in the training process, is trained on inertial measurements and ground truth displacement data, allowing recursion and to learn both motion characteristics and systemic error bias and drift. We present two end-to-end frameworks for pose invariant deep inertial odometry that utilise self-attention to capture both spatial features and long-range dependencies in inertial data. We evaluate our approaches against a custom 2-layer Gated Recurrent Unit, trained in the same manner on the same data, and tested each approach on a number of different users, devices and activities. Each network had a sequence length weighted relative trajectory error mean $\leq0.4594$m, highlighting the effectiveness of our learning process used in the development of the models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Feature Completion Transformer for Occluded Person Re-identification<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01656<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Occluded person re-identification (Re-ID) is a challenging problem due to the destruction of occluders. Most existing methods focus on visible human body parts through some prior information. However, when complementary occlusions occur, features in occluded regions can interfere with matching, which affects performance severely. In this paper, different from most previous works that discard the occluded region, we propose a Feature Completion Transformer (FCFormer) to implicitly complement the semantic information of occluded parts in the feature space. Specifically, Occlusion Instance Augmentation (OIA) is proposed to simulates real and diverse occlusion situations on the holistic image. These augmented images not only enrich the amount of occlusion samples in the training set, but also form pairs with the holistic images. Subsequently, a dual-stream architecture with a shared encoder is proposed to learn paired discriminative features from pairs of inputs. Without additional semantic information, an occluded-holistic feature sample-label pair can be automatically created. Then, Feature Completion Decoder (FCD) is designed to complement the features of occluded regions by using learnable tokens to aggregate possible information from self-generated occluded features. Finally, we propose the Cross Hard Triplet (CHT) loss to further bridge the gap between complementing features and extracting features under the same ID. In addition, Feature Completion Consistency (FC$^2$) loss is introduced to help the generated completion feature distribution to be closer to the real holistic feature distribution. Extensive experiments over five challenging datasets demonstrate that the proposed FCFormer achieves superior performance and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by significant margins on occluded datasets. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Miipher: A Robust Speech Restoration Model Integrating Self-Supervised  Speech and Text Representations<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01664<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Speech restoration (SR) is a task of converting degraded speech signals into high-quality ones. In this study, we propose a robust SR model called Miipher, and apply Miipher to a new SR application: increasing the amount of high-quality training data for speech generation by converting speech samples collected from the Web to studio-quality. To make our SR model robust against various degradation, we use (i) a speech representation extracted from w2v-BERT for the input feature, and (ii) a text representation extracted from transcripts via PnG-BERT as a linguistic conditioning feature. Experiments show that Miipher (i) is robust against various audio degradation and (ii) enable us to train a high-quality text-to-speech (TTS) model from restored speech samples collected from the Web. Audio samples are available at our demo page: google.github.io/df-conformer/miipher/ <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: LooperGP: A Loopable Sequence Model for Live Coding Performance using  GuitarPro Tablature<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01665<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Despite their impressive offline results, deep learning models for symbolic music generation are not widely used in live performances due to a deficit of musically meaningful control parameters and a lack of structured musical form in their outputs. To address these issues we introduce LooperGP, a method for steering a Transformer-XL model towards generating loopable musical phrases of a specified number of bars and time signature, enabling a tool for live coding performances. We show that by training LooperGP on a dataset of 93,681 musical loops extracted from the DadaGP dataset, we are able to steer its generative output towards generating 3x as many loopable phrases as our baseline. In a subjective listening test conducted by 31 participants, LooperGP loops achieved positive median ratings in originality, musical coherence and loop smoothness, demonstrating its potential as a performance tool. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: RePreM: Representation Pre-training with Masked Model for Reinforcement  Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01668<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Inspired by the recent success of sequence modeling in RL and the use of masked language model for pre-training, we propose a masked model for pre-training in RL, RePreM (Representation Pre-training with Masked Model), which trains the encoder combined with transformer blocks to predict the masked states or actions in a trajectory. RePreM is simple but effective compared to existing representation pre-training methods in RL. It avoids algorithmic sophistication (such as data augmentation or estimating multiple models) with sequence modeling and generates a representation that captures long-term dynamics well. Empirically, we demonstrate the effectiveness of RePreM in various tasks, including dynamic prediction, transfer learning, and sample-efficient RL with both value-based and actor-critic methods. Moreover, we show that RePreM scales well with dataset size, dataset quality, and the scale of the encoder, which indicates its potential towards big RL models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Multi-Scale Control Signal-Aware Transformer for Motion Synthesis  without Phase<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01685<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Synthesizing controllable motion for a character using deep learning has been a promising approach due to its potential to learn a compact model without laborious feature engineering. To produce dynamic motion from weak control signals such as desired paths, existing methods often require auxiliary information such as phases for alleviating motion ambiguity, which limits their generalisation capability. As past poses often contain useful auxiliary hints, in this paper, we propose a task-agnostic deep learning method, namely Multi-scale Control Signal-aware Transformer (MCS-T), with an attention based encoder-decoder architecture to discover the auxiliary information implicitly for synthesizing controllable motion without explicitly requiring auxiliary information such as phase. Specifically, an encoder is devised to adaptively formulate the motion patterns of a character's past poses with multi-scale skeletons, and a decoder driven by control signals to further synthesize and predict the character's state by paying context-specialised attention to the encoded past motion patterns. As a result, it helps alleviate the issues of low responsiveness and slow transition which often happen in conventional methods not using auxiliary information. Both qualitative and quantitative experimental results on an existing biped locomotion dataset, which involves diverse types of motion transitions, demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. In particular, MCS-T is able to successfully generate motions comparable to those generated by the methods using auxiliary information. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: DWFormer: Dynamic Window transFormer for Speech Emotion Recognition<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01694<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Speech emotion recognition is crucial to human-computer interaction. The temporal regions that represent different emotions scatter in different parts of the speech locally. Moreover, the temporal scales of important information may vary over a large range within and across speech segments. Although transformer-based models have made progress in this field, the existing models could not precisely locate important regions at different temporal scales. To address the issue, we propose Dynamic Window transFormer (DWFormer), a new architecture that leverages temporal importance by dynamically splitting samples into windows. Self-attention mechanism is applied within windows for capturing temporal important information locally in a fine-grained way. Cross-window information interaction is also taken into account for global communication. DWFormer is evaluated on both the IEMOCAP and the MELD datasets. Experimental results show that the proposed model achieves better performance than the previous state-of-the-art methods. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Multi-Plane Neural Radiance Fields for Novel View Synthesis<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01736<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Novel view synthesis is a long-standing problem that revolves around rendering frames of scenes from novel camera viewpoints. Volumetric approaches provide a solution for modeling occlusions through the explicit 3D representation of the camera frustum. Multi-plane Images (MPI) are volumetric methods that represent the scene using front-parallel planes at distinct depths but suffer from depth discretization leading to a 2.D scene representation. Another line of approach relies on implicit 3D scene representations. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) utilize neural networks for encapsulating the continuous 3D scene structure within the network weights achieving photorealistic synthesis results, however, methods are constrained to per-scene optimization settings which are inefficient in practice. Multi-plane Neural Radiance Fields (MINE) open the door for combining implicit and explicit scene representations. It enables continuous 3D scene representations, especially in the depth dimension, while utilizing the input image features to avoid per-scene optimization. The main drawback of the current literature work in this domain is being constrained to single-view input, limiting the synthesis ability to narrow viewpoint ranges. In this work, we thoroughly examine the performance, generalization, and efficiency of single-view multi-plane neural radiance fields. In addition, we propose a new multiplane NeRF architecture that accepts multiple views to improve the synthesis results and expand the viewing range. Features from the input source frames are effectively fused through a proposed attention-aware fusion module to highlight important information from different viewpoints. Experiments show the effectiveness of attention-based fusion and the promising outcomes of our proposed method when compared to multi-view NeRF and MPI techniques. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Generative Diffusions in Augmented Spaces: A Complete Recipe<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01748<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Score-based Generative Models (SGMs) have achieved state-of-the-art synthesis results on diverse tasks. However, the current design space of the forward diffusion process is largely unexplored and often relies on physical intuition or simplifying assumptions. Leveraging results from the design of scalable Bayesian posterior samplers, we present a complete recipe for constructing forward processes in SGMs, all of which are guaranteed to converge to the target distribution of interest. We show that several existing SGMs can be cast as specific instantiations of this parameterization. Furthermore, building on this recipe, we construct a novel SGM: Phase Space Langevin Diffusion (PSLD), which performs score-based modeling in a space augmented with auxiliary variables akin to a physical phase space. We show that PSLD outperforms competing baselines in terms of sample quality and the speed-vs-quality tradeoff across different samplers on various standard image synthesis benchmarks. Moreover, we show that PSLD achieves sample quality comparable to state-of-the-art SGMs (FID: 2.10 on unconditional CIFAR-10 generation), providing an attractive alternative as an SGM backbone for further development. We will publish our code and model checkpoints for reproducibility at https://github.com/mandt-lab/PSLD. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Visual Exemplar Driven Task-Prompting for Unified Perception in  Autonomous Driving<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01788<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Multi-task learning has emerged as a powerful paradigm to solve a range of tasks simultaneously with good efficiency in both computation resources and inference time. However, these algorithms are designed for different tasks mostly not within the scope of autonomous driving, thus making it hard to compare multi-task methods in autonomous driving. Aiming to enable the comprehensive evaluation of present multi-task learning methods in autonomous driving, we extensively investigate the performance of popular multi-task methods on the large-scale driving dataset, which covers four common perception tasks, i.e., object detection, semantic segmentation, drivable area segmentation, and lane detection. We provide an in-depth analysis of current multi-task learning methods under different common settings and find out that the existing methods make progress but there is still a large performance gap compared with single-task baselines. To alleviate this dilemma in autonomous driving, we present an effective multi-task framework, VE-Prompt, which introduces visual exemplars via task-specific prompting to guide the model toward learning high-quality task-specific representations. Specifically, we generate visual exemplars based on bounding boxes and color-based markers, which provide accurate visual appearances of target categories and further mitigate the performance gap. Furthermore, we bridge transformer-based encoders and convolutional layers for efficient and accurate unified perception in autonomous driving. Comprehensive experimental results on the diverse self-driving dataset BDD100K show that the VE-Prompt improves the multi-task baseline and further surpasses single-task models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Graph-based Extreme Feature Selection for Multi-class Classification  Tasks<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01792<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: When processing high-dimensional datasets, a common pre-processing step is feature selection. Filter-based feature selection algorithms are not tailored to a specific classification method, but rather rank the relevance of each feature with respect to the target and the task. This work focuses on a graph-based, filter feature selection method that is suited for multi-class classifications tasks. We aim to drastically reduce the number of selected features, in order to create a sketch of the original data that codes valuable information for the classification task. The proposed graph-based algorithm is constructed by combing the Jeffries-Matusita distance with a non-linear dimension reduction method, diffusion maps. Feature elimination is performed based on the distribution of the features in the low-dimensional space. Then, a very small number of feature that have complementary separation strengths, are selected. Moreover, the low-dimensional embedding allows to visualize the feature space. Experimental results are provided for public datasets and compared with known filter-based feature selection techniques. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Word-As-Image for Semantic Typography<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01818<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: A word-as-image is a semantic typography technique where a word illustration presents a visualization of the meaning of the word, while also preserving its readability. We present a method to create word-as-image illustrations automatically. This task is highly challenging as it requires semantic understanding of the word and a creative idea of where and how to depict these semantics in a visually pleasing and legible manner. We rely on the remarkable ability of recent large pretrained language-vision models to distill textual concepts visually. We target simple, concise, black-and-white designs that convey the semantics clearly. We deliberately do not change the color or texture of the letters and do not use embellishments. Our method optimizes the outline of each letter to convey the desired concept, guided by a pretrained Stable Diffusion model. We incorporate additional loss terms to ensure the legibility of the text and the preservation of the style of the font. We show high quality and engaging results on numerous examples and compare to alternative techniques. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: LBCIM: Loyalty Based Competitive Influence Maximization with  epsilon-greedy MCTS strategy<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01850<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Competitive influence maximization has been studied for several years, and various frameworks have been proposed to model different aspects of information diffusion under the competitive environment. This work presents a new gameboard for two competing parties with some new features representing loyalty in social networks and reflecting the attitude of not completely being loyal to a party when the opponent offers better suggestions. This behavior can be observed in most political occasions where each party tries to attract people by making better suggestions than the opponent and even seeks to impress the fans of the opposition party to change their minds. In order to identify the best move in each step of the game framework, an improved Monte Carlo tree search is developed, which uses some predefined heuristics to apply them on the simulation step of the algorithm and takes advantage of them to search among child nodes of the current state and pick the best one using an epsilon-greedy way instead of choosing them at random. Experimental results on synthetic and real datasets indicate the outperforming of the proposed strategy against some well-known and benchmark strategies like general MCTS, minimax algorithm with alpha-beta pruning, random nodes, nodes with maximum threshold and nodes with minimum threshold. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Low-Complexity Audio Embedding Extractors<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01879<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Solving tasks such as speaker recognition, music classification, or semantic audio event tagging with deep learning models typically requires computationally demanding networks. General-purpose audio embeddings (GPAEs) are dense representations of audio signals that allow lightweight, shallow classifiers to tackle various audio tasks. The idea is that a single complex feature extractor would extract dense GPAEs, while shallow MLPs can produce task-specific predictions. If the extracted dense representations are general enough to allow the simple downstream classifiers to generalize to a variety of tasks in the audio domain, a single costly forward pass suffices to solve multiple tasks in parallel. In this work, we try to reduce the cost of GPAE extractors to make them suitable for resource-constrained devices. We use efficient MobileNets trained on AudioSet using Knowledge Distillation from a Transformer ensemble as efficient GPAE extractors. We explore how to obtain high-quality GPAEs from the model, study how model complexity relates to the quality of extracted GPAEs, and conclude that low-complexity models can generate competitive GPAEs, paving the way for analyzing audio streams on edge devices w.r.t. multiple audio classification and recognition tasks. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Prompting Large Language Models with Answer Heuristics for  Knowledge-based Visual Question Answering<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01903<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Knowledge-based visual question answering (VQA) requires external knowledge beyond the image to answer the question. Early studies retrieve required knowledge from explicit knowledge bases (KBs), which often introduces irrelevant information to the question, hence restricting the performance of their models. Recent works have sought to use a large language model (i.e., GPT-3) as an implicit knowledge engine to acquire the necessary knowledge for answering. Despite the encouraging results achieved by these methods, we argue that they have not fully activated the capacity of GPT-3 as the provided input information is insufficient. In this paper, we present Prophet -- a conceptually simple framework designed to prompt GPT-3 with answer heuristics for knowledge-based VQA. Specifically, we first train a vanilla VQA model on a specific knowledge-based VQA dataset without external knowledge. After that, we extract two types of complementary answer heuristics from the model: answer candidates and answer-aware examples. Finally, the two types of answer heuristics are encoded into the prompts to enable GPT-3 to better comprehend the task thus enhancing its capacity. Prophet significantly outperforms all existing state-of-the-art methods on two challenging knowledge-based VQA datasets, OK-VQA and A-OKVQA, delivering 61.1% and 55.7% accuracies on their testing sets, respectively. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: CONTAIN: A Community-based Algorithm for Network Immunization<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01934<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Within the network analysis field, network immunization refers to the task of protecting a network from some arbitrary diffusion that tries to infect it. In this article, we consider the spread of harmful content in social networks, and we propose CONTAIN, a novel COmmuNiTy-based Algorithm for network ImmuNization. Our solution uses the network information to (1) detect harmful content spreaders, and (2) generate partitions and rank them for immunization using the subgraphs induced by each spreader, i.e., employing CONTAIN. The experimental results obtained on real-world datasets show that CONTAIN outperforms state-of-the-art solutions, i.e., NetShield and SparseShield, by immunizing the network in fewer iterations, thus, converging significantly faster than the state-of-the-art algorithms. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Multi-Agent Adversarial Training Using Diffusion Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01936<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: This work focuses on adversarial learning over graphs. We propose a general adversarial training framework for multi-agent systems using diffusion learning. We analyze the convergence properties of the proposed scheme for convex optimization problems, and illustrate its enhanced robustness to adversarial attacks. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Delicate Textured Mesh Recovery from NeRF via Adaptive Surface  Refinement<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02091<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have constituted a remarkable breakthrough in image-based 3D reconstruction. However, their implicit volumetric representations differ significantly from the widely-adopted polygonal meshes and lack support from common 3D software and hardware, making their rendering and manipulation inefficient. To overcome this limitation, we present a novel framework that generates textured surface meshes from images. Our approach begins by efficiently initializing the geometry and view-dependency decomposed appearance with a NeRF. Subsequently, a coarse mesh is extracted, and an iterative surface refining algorithm is developed to adaptively adjust both vertex positions and face density based on re-projected rendering errors. We jointly refine the appearance with geometry and bake it into texture images for real-time rendering. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves superior mesh quality and competitive rendering quality. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Data-Efficient Training of CNNs and Transformers with Coresets: A  Stability Perspective<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02095<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Coreset selection is among the most effective ways to reduce the training time of CNNs, however, only limited is known on how the resultant models will behave under variations of the coreset size, and choice of datasets and models. Moreover, given the recent paradigm shift towards transformer-based models, it is still an open question how coreset selection would impact their performance. There are several similar intriguing questions that need to be answered for a wide acceptance of coreset selection methods, and this paper attempts to answer some of these. We present a systematic benchmarking setup and perform a rigorous comparison of different coreset selection methods on CNNs and transformers. Our investigation reveals that under certain circumstances, random selection of subsets is more robust and stable when compared with the SOTA selection methods. We demonstrate that the conventional concept of uniform subset sampling across the various classes of the data is not the appropriate choice. Rather samples should be adaptively chosen based on the complexity of the data distribution for each class. Transformers are generally pretrained on large datasets, and we show that for certain target datasets, it helps to keep their performance stable at even very small coreset sizes. We further show that when no pretraining is done or when the pretrained transformer models are used with non-natural images (e.g. medical data), CNNs tend to generalize better than transformers at even very small coreset sizes. Lastly, we demonstrate that in the absence of the right pretraining, CNNs are better at learning the semantic coherence between spatially distant objects within an image, and these tend to outperform transformers at almost all choices of the coreset size. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Depth-based 6DoF Object Pose Estimation using Swin Transformer<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02133<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Accurately estimating the 6D pose of objects is crucial for many applications, such as robotic grasping, autonomous driving, and augmented reality. However, this task becomes more challenging in poor lighting conditions or when dealing with textureless objects. To address this issue, depth images are becoming an increasingly popular choice due to their invariance to a scene's appearance and the implicit incorporation of essential geometric characteristics. However, fully leveraging depth information to improve the performance of pose estimation remains a difficult and under-investigated problem. To tackle this challenge, we propose a novel framework called SwinDePose, that uses only geometric information from depth images to achieve accurate 6D pose estimation. SwinDePose first calculates the angles between each normal vector defined in a depth image and the three coordinate axes in the camera coordinate system. The resulting angles are then formed into an image, which is encoded using Swin Transformer. Additionally, we apply RandLA-Net to learn the representations from point clouds. The resulting image and point clouds embeddings are concatenated and fed into a semantic segmentation module and a 3D keypoints localization module. Finally, we estimate 6D poses using a least-square fitting approach based on the target object's predicted semantic mask and 3D keypoints. In experiments on the LineMod and Occlusion LineMod datasets, SwinDePose outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods for 6D object pose estimation using depth images. This demonstrates the effectiveness of our approach and highlights its potential for improving performance in real-world scenarios. Our code is at https://github.com/zhujunli1993/SwinDePose. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Prompt, Generate, then Cache: Cascade of Foundation Models makes Strong  Few-shot Learners<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02151<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Visual recognition in low-data regimes requires deep neural networks to learn generalized representations from limited training samples. Recently, CLIP-based methods have shown promising few-shot performance benefited from the contrastive language-image pre-training. We then question, if the more diverse pre-training knowledge can be cascaded to further assist few-shot representation learning. In this paper, we propose CaFo, a Cascade of Foundation models that incorporates diverse prior knowledge of various pre-training paradigms for better few-shot learning. Our CaFo incorporates CLIP's language-contrastive knowledge, DINO's vision-contrastive knowledge, DALL-E's vision-generative knowledge, and GPT-3's language-generative knowledge. Specifically, CaFo works by 'Prompt, Generate, then Cache'. Firstly, we leverage GPT-3 to produce textual inputs for prompting CLIP with rich downstream linguistic semantics. Then, we generate synthetic images via DALL-E to expand the few-shot training data without any manpower. At last, we introduce a learnable cache model to adaptively blend the predictions from CLIP and DINO. By such collaboration, CaFo can fully unleash the potential of different pre-training methods and unify them to perform state-of-the-art for few-shot classification. Code is available at https://github.com/ZrrSkywalker/CaFo. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Unleashing Text-to-Image Diffusion Models for Visual Perception<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02153<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Diffusion models (DMs) have become the new trend of generative models and have demonstrated a powerful ability of conditional synthesis. Among those, text-to-image diffusion models pre-trained on large-scale image-text pairs are highly controllable by customizable prompts. Unlike the unconditional generative models that focus on low-level attributes and details, text-to-image diffusion models contain more high-level knowledge thanks to the vision-language pre-training. In this paper, we propose VPD (Visual Perception with a pre-trained Diffusion model), a new framework that exploits the semantic information of a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model in visual perception tasks. Instead of using the pre-trained denoising autoencoder in a diffusion-based pipeline, we simply use it as a backbone and aim to study how to take full advantage of the learned knowledge. Specifically, we prompt the denoising decoder with proper textual inputs and refine the text features with an adapter, leading to a better alignment to the pre-trained stage and making the visual contents interact with the text prompts. We also propose to utilize the cross-attention maps between the visual features and the text features to provide explicit guidance. Compared with other pre-training methods, we show that vision-language pre-trained diffusion models can be faster adapted to downstream visual perception tasks using the proposed VPD. Extensive experiments on semantic segmentation, referring image segmentation and depth estimation demonstrates the effectiveness of our method. Notably, VPD attains 0.254 RMSE on NYUv2 depth estimation and 73.3% oIoU on RefCOCO-val referring image segmentation, establishing new records on these two benchmarks. Code is available at https://github.com/wl-zhao/VPD <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: AI and the FCI: Can ChatGPT Project an Understanding of Introductory  Physics?<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01067<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: ChatGPT is a groundbreaking ``chatbot"--an AI interface built on a large language model that was trained on an enormous corpus of human text to emulate human conversation. Beyond its ability to shoot the breeze in a plausible way, it has attracted attention for its ability to competently answer questions from the bar exam and from MBA coursework, and to provide useful assistance in writing computer code. These apparent abilities have prompted discussion of ChatGPT as both a threat to the integrity of higher education and conversely as a powerful teaching tool. In this work we present a preliminary analysis of how ChatGPT fares in the field of first-semester university physics, using primarily the Force Concept Inventory (FCI) to assess whether it can give correct responses to conceptual physics questions about kinematics and Newtonian dynamics. We demonstrate that, by some measures, ChatGPT can match or exceed the median performance of a university student who has completed one semester of college physics, though its performance is notably uneven and the results are nuanced. We conclude with a discussion of these results in light of four questions that motivated this work: what does ChatGPT's performance tell us about the nature of conceptual assessment tools like the FCI? How might the availability of ChatGPT as a resource for students? Can ChatGPT be used as an in-class teaching tool for physics instruction? And can it be used as an out-of-classroom aid to those engaged in physics pedagogy? <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: An investigation into the adaptability of a diffusion-based TTS model<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01849<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Given the recent success of diffusion in producing natural-sounding synthetic speech, we investigate how diffusion can be used in speaker adaptive TTS. Taking cues from more traditional adaptation approaches, we show that adaptation can be included in a diffusion pipeline using conditional layer normalization with a step embedding. However, we show experimentally that, whilst the approach has merit, such adaptation alone cannot approach the performance of Transformer-based techniques. In a second experiment, we show that diffusion can be optimally combined with Transformer, with the latter taking the bulk of the adaptation load and the former contributing to improved naturalness. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Diffusion Models are Minimax Optimal Distribution Estimators<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01861<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: While efficient distribution learning is no doubt behind the groundbreaking success of diffusion modeling, its theoretical guarantees are quite limited. In this paper, we provide the first rigorous analysis on approximation and generalization abilities of diffusion modeling for well-known function spaces. The highlight of this paper is that when the true density function belongs to the Besov space and the empirical score matching loss is properly minimized, the generated data distribution achieves the nearly minimax optimal estimation rates in the total variation distance and in the Wasserstein distance of order one. Furthermore, we extend our theory to demonstrate how diffusion models adapt to low-dimensional data distributions. We expect these results advance theoretical understandings of diffusion modeling and its ability to generate verisimilar outputs. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Retinal Image Restoration using Transformer and Cycle-Consistent  Generative Adversarial Network<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01939<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Medical imaging plays a significant role in detecting and treating various diseases. However, these images often happen to be of too poor quality, leading to decreased efficiency, extra expenses, and even incorrect diagnoses. Therefore, we propose a retinal image enhancement method using a vision transformer and convolutional neural network. It builds a cycle-consistent generative adversarial network that relies on unpaired datasets. It consists of two generators that translate images from one domain to another (e.g., low- to high-quality and vice versa), playing an adversarial game with two discriminators. Generators produce indistinguishable images for discriminators that predict the original images from generated ones. Generators are a combination of vision transformer (ViT) encoder and convolutional neural network (CNN) decoder. Discriminators include traditional CNN encoders. The resulting improved images have been tested quantitatively using such evaluation metrics as peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR), structural similarity index measure (SSIM), and qualitatively, i.e., vessel segmentation. The proposed method successfully reduces the adverse effects of blurring, noise, illumination disturbances, and color distortions while significantly preserving structural and color information. Experimental results show the superiority of the proposed method. Our testing PSNR is 31.138 dB for the first and 27.798 dB for the second dataset. Testing SSIM is 0.919 and 0.904, respectively. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Unsupervised Deep Digital Staining For Microscopic Cell Images Via  Knowledge Distillation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02057<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Staining is critical to cell imaging and medical diagnosis, which is expensive, time-consuming, labor-intensive, and causes irreversible changes to cell tissues. Recent advances in deep learning enabled digital staining via supervised model training. However, it is difficult to obtain large-scale stained/unstained cell image pairs in practice, which need to be perfectly aligned with the supervision. In this work, we propose a novel unsupervised deep learning framework for the digital staining of cell images using knowledge distillation and generative adversarial networks (GANs). A teacher model is first trained mainly for the colorization of bright-field images. After that,a student GAN for staining is obtained by knowledge distillation with hybrid non-reference losses. We show that the proposed unsupervised deep staining method can generate stained images with more accurate positions and shapes of the cell targets. Compared with other unsupervised deep generative models for staining, our method achieves much more promising results both qualitatively and quantitatively. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Bi-parametric prostate MR image synthesis using pathology and  sequence-conditioned stable diffusion<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02094<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We propose an image synthesis mechanism for multi-sequence prostate MR images conditioned on text, to control lesion presence and sequence, as well as to generate paired bi-parametric images conditioned on images e.g. for generating diffusion-weighted MR from T2-weighted MR for paired data, which are two challenging tasks in pathological image synthesis. Our proposed mechanism utilises and builds upon the recent stable diffusion model by proposing image-based conditioning for paired data generation. We validate our method using 2D image slices from real suspected prostate cancer patients. The realism of the synthesised images is validated by means of a blind expert evaluation for identifying real versus fake images, where a radiologist with 4 years experience reading urological MR only achieves 59.4% accuracy across all tested sequences (where chance is 50%). For the first time, we evaluate the realism of the generated pathology by blind expert identification of the presence of suspected lesions, where we find that the clinician performs similarly for both real and synthesised images, with a 2.9 percentage point difference in lesion identification accuracy between real and synthesised images, demonstrating the potentials in radiological training purposes. Furthermore, we also show that a machine learning model, trained for lesion identification, shows better performance (76.2% vs 70.4%, statistically significant improvement) when trained with real data augmented by synthesised data as opposed to training with only real images, demonstrating usefulness for model training. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: TRUSformer: Improving Prostate Cancer Detection from Micro-Ultrasound  Using Attention and Self-Supervision<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.02128<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: A large body of previous machine learning methods for ultrasound-based prostate cancer detection classify small regions of interest (ROIs) of ultrasound signals that lie within a larger needle trace corresponding to a prostate tissue biopsy (called biopsy core). These ROI-scale models suffer from weak labeling as histopathology results available for biopsy cores only approximate the distribution of cancer in the ROIs. ROI-scale models do not take advantage of contextual information that are normally considered by pathologists, i.e. they do not consider information about surrounding tissue and larger-scale trends when identifying cancer. We aim to improve cancer detection by taking a multi-scale, i.e. ROI-scale and biopsy core-scale, approach. Methods: Our multi-scale approach combines (i) an "ROI-scale" model trained using self-supervised learning to extract features from small ROIs and (ii) a "core-scale" transformer model that processes a collection of extracted features from multiple ROIs in the needle trace region to predict the tissue type of the corresponding core. Attention maps, as a byproduct, allow us to localize cancer at the ROI scale. We analyze this method using a dataset of micro-ultrasound acquired from 578 patients who underwent prostate biopsy, and compare our model to baseline models and other large-scale studies in the literature. Results and Conclusions: Our model shows consistent and substantial performance improvements compared to ROI-scale-only models. It achieves 80.3% AUROC, a statistically significant improvement over ROI-scale classification. We also compare our method to large studies on prostate cancer detection, using other imaging modalities. Our code is publicly available at www.github.com/med-i-lab/TRUSFormer <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/></body>
        </html>
