<html>
        <body>
        <p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Gradient-Free Structured Pruning with Unlabeled Data<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04185<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved great success in solving difficult tasks across many domains, but such success comes with a high computation cost, and inference latency. As developers and third parties customize these models, the need to provide efficient inference has increased. Many efforts have attempted to reduce inference cost through model compression techniques such as pruning and distillation. However, these techniques either require labeled data, or are time-consuming as they require the compressed model to be retrained to regain accuracy. In this paper, we propose a gradient-free structured pruning framework that uses only unlabeled data. An evaluation on the GLUE and SQuAD benchmarks using BERT$_{BASE}$ and DistilBERT illustrates the effectiveness of the proposed approach. By only using the weights of the pre-trained model and unlabeled data, in a matter of a few minutes on a single GPU, up to 40% of the original FLOP count can be reduced with less than a 4% accuracy loss across all tasks considered. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: End-to-end Face-swapping via Adaptive Latent Representation Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04186<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Taking full advantage of the excellent performance of StyleGAN, style transfer-based face swapping methods have been extensively investigated recently. However, these studies require separate face segmentation and blending modules for successful face swapping, and the fixed selection of the manipulated latent code in these works is reckless, thus degrading face swapping quality, generalizability, and practicability. This paper proposes a novel and end-to-end integrated framework for high resolution and attribute preservation face swapping via Adaptive Latent Representation Learning. Specifically, we first design a multi-task dual-space face encoder by sharing the underlying feature extraction network to simultaneously complete the facial region perception and face encoding. This encoder enables us to control the face pose and attribute individually, thus enhancing the face swapping quality. Next, we propose an adaptive latent codes swapping module to adaptively learn the mapping between the facial attributes and the latent codes and select effective latent codes for improved retention of facial attributes. Finally, the initial face swapping image generated by StyleGAN2 is blended with the facial region mask generated by our encoder to address the background blur problem. Our framework integrating facial perceiving and blending into the end-to-end training and testing process can achieve high realistic face-swapping on wild faces without segmentation masks. Experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of our approach over state-of-the-art methods. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: DR-VIDAL -- Doubly Robust Variational Information-theoretic Deep  Adversarial Learning for Counterfactual Prediction and Treatment Effect  Estimation on Real World Data<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04201<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Determining causal effects of interventions onto outcomes from real-world, observational (non-randomized) data, e.g., treatment repurposing using electronic health records, is challenging due to underlying bias. Causal deep learning has improved over traditional techniques for estimating individualized treatment effects (ITE). We present the Doubly Robust Variational Information-theoretic Deep Adversarial Learning (DR-VIDAL), a novel generative framework that combines two joint models of treatment and outcome, ensuring an unbiased ITE estimation even when one of the two is misspecified. DR-VIDAL integrates: (i) a variational autoencoder (VAE) to factorize confounders into latent variables according to causal assumptions; (ii) an information-theoretic generative adversarial network (Info-GAN) to generate counterfactuals; (iii) a doubly robust block incorporating treatment propensities for outcome predictions. On synthetic and real-world datasets (Infant Health and Development Program, Twin Birth Registry, and National Supported Work Program), DR-VIDAL achieves better performance than other non-generative and generative methods. In conclusion, DR-VIDAL uniquely fuses causal assumptions, VAE, Info-GAN, and doubly robustness into a comprehensive, performant framework. Code is available at: https://github.com/Shantanu48114860/DR-VIDAL-AMIA-22 under MIT license. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: ConBaT: Control Barrier Transformer for Safe Policy Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04212<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Large-scale self-supervised models have recently revolutionized our ability to perform a variety of tasks within the vision and language domains. However, using such models for autonomous systems is challenging because of safety requirements: besides executing correct actions, an autonomous agent must also avoid the high cost and potentially fatal critical mistakes. Traditionally, self-supervised training mainly focuses on imitating previously observed behaviors, and the training demonstrations carry no notion of which behaviors should be explicitly avoided. In this work, we propose Control Barrier Transformer (ConBaT), an approach that learns safe behaviors from demonstrations in a self-supervised fashion. ConBaT is inspired by the concept of control barrier functions in control theory and uses a causal transformer that learns to predict safe robot actions autoregressively using a critic that requires minimal safety data labeling. During deployment, we employ a lightweight online optimization to find actions that ensure future states lie within the learned safe set. We apply our approach to different simulated control tasks and show that our method results in safer control policies compared to other classical and learning-based methods such as imitation learning, reinforcement learning, and model predictive control. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: A Comprehensive Survey of AI-Generated Content (AIGC): A History of  Generative AI from GAN to ChatGPT<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04226<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recently, ChatGPT, along with DALL-E-2 and Codex,has been gaining significant attention from society. As a result, many individuals have become interested in related resources and are seeking to uncover the background and secrets behind its impressive performance. In fact, ChatGPT and other Generative AI (GAI) techniques belong to the category of Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC), which involves the creation of digital content, such as images, music, and natural language, through AI models. The goal of AIGC is to make the content creation process more efficient and accessible, allowing for the production of high-quality content at a faster pace. AIGC is achieved by extracting and understanding intent information from instructions provided by human, and generating the content according to its knowledge and the intent information. In recent years, large-scale models have become increasingly important in AIGC as they provide better intent extraction and thus, improved generation results. With the growth of data and the size of the models, the distribution that the model can learn becomes more comprehensive and closer to reality, leading to more realistic and high-quality content generation. This survey provides a comprehensive review on the history of generative models, and basic components, recent advances in AIGC from unimodal interaction and multimodal interaction. From the perspective of unimodality, we introduce the generation tasks and relative models of text and image. From the perspective of multimodality, we introduce the cross-application between the modalities mentioned above. Finally, we discuss the existing open problems and future challenges in AIGC. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Patch of Invisibility: Naturalistic Black-Box Adversarial Attacks on  Object Detectors<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04238<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Adversarial attacks on deep-learning models have been receiving increased attention in recent years. Work in this area has mostly focused on gradient-based techniques, so-called white-box attacks, wherein the attacker has access to the targeted model's internal parameters; such an assumption is usually unrealistic in the real world. Some attacks additionally use the entire pixel space to fool a given model, which is neither practical nor physical (i.e., real-world). On the contrary, we propose herein a gradient-free method that uses the learned image manifold of a pretrained generative adversarial network (GAN) to generate naturalistic physical adversarial patches for object detectors. We show that our proposed method works both digitally and physically. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: TRACT: Denoising Diffusion Models with Transitive Closure  Time-Distillation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04248<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Denoising Diffusion models have demonstrated their proficiency for generative sampling. However, generating good samples often requires many iterations. Consequently, techniques such as binary time-distillation (BTD) have been proposed to reduce the number of network calls for a fixed architecture. In this paper, we introduce TRAnsitive Closure Time-distillation (TRACT), a new method that extends BTD. For single step diffusion,TRACT improves FID by up to 2.4x on the same architecture, and achieves new single-step Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models (DDIM) state-of-the-art FID (7.4 for ImageNet64, 3.8 for CIFAR10). Finally we tease apart the method through extended ablations. The PyTorch implementation will be released soon. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Where We Are and What We're Looking At: Query Based Worldwide Image  Geo-localization Using Hierarchies and Scenes<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04249<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Determining the exact latitude and longitude that a photo was taken is a useful and widely applicable task, yet it remains exceptionally difficult despite the accelerated progress of other computer vision tasks. Most previous approaches have opted to learn a single representation of query images, which are then classified at different levels of geographic granularity. These approaches fail to exploit the different visual cues that give context to different hierarchies, such as the country, state, and city level. To this end, we introduce an end-to-end transformer-based architecture that exploits the relationship between different geographic levels (which we refer to as hierarchies) and the corresponding visual scene information in an image through hierarchical cross-attention. We achieve this by learning a query for each geographic hierarchy and scene type. Furthermore, we learn a separate representation for different environmental scenes, as different scenes in the same location are often defined by completely different visual features. We achieve state of the art street level accuracy on 4 standard geo-localization datasets : Im2GPS, Im2GPS3k, YFCC4k, and YFCC26k, as well as qualitatively demonstrate how our method learns different representations for different visual hierarchies and scenes, which has not been demonstrated in the previous methods. These previous testing datasets mostly consist of iconic landmarks or images taken from social media, which makes them either a memorization task, or biased towards certain places. To address this issue we introduce a much harder testing dataset, Google-World-Streets-15k, comprised of images taken from Google Streetview covering the whole planet and present state of the art results. Our code will be made available in the camera-ready version. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: SKGHOI: Spatial-Semantic Knowledge Graph for Human-Object Interaction  Detection<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04253<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Detecting human-object interactions (HOIs) is a challenging problem in computer vision. Existing techniques for HOI detection heavily rely on appearance-based features, which may not capture other essential characteristics for accurate detection. Furthermore, the use of transformer-based models for sentiment representation of human-object pairs can be computationally expensive. To address these challenges, we propose a novel graph-based approach, SKGHOI (Spatial-Semantic Knowledge Graph for Human-Object Interaction Detection), that effectively captures the sentiment representation of HOIs by integrating both spatial and semantic knowledge. In a graph, SKGHOI takes the components of interaction as nodes, and the spatial relationships between them as edges. Our approach employs a spatial encoder and a semantic encoder to extract spatial and semantic information, respectively, and then combines these encodings to create a knowledge graph that captures the sentiment representation of HOIs. Compared to existing techniques, SKGHOI is computationally efficient and allows for the incorporation of prior knowledge, making it practical for use in real-world applications. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method on the widely-used HICO-DET datasets, where it outperforms existing state-of-the-art graph-based methods by a significant margin. Our results indicate that the SKGHOI approach has the potential to significantly improve the accuracy and efficiency of HOI detection, and we anticipate that it will be of great interest to researchers and practitioners working on this challenging task. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: A Computer Vision Enabled damage detection model with improved YOLOv5  based on Transformer Prediction Head<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04275<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Objective:Computer vision-based up-to-date accurate damage classification and localization are of decisive importance for infrastructure monitoring, safety, and the serviceability of civil infrastructure. Current state-of-the-art deep learning (DL)-based damage detection models, however, often lack superior feature extraction capability in complex and noisy environments, limiting the development of accurate and reliable object distinction. Method: To this end, we present DenseSPH-YOLOv5, a real-time DL-based high-performance damage detection model where DenseNet blocks have been integrated with the backbone to improve in preserving and reusing critical feature information. Additionally, convolutional block attention modules (CBAM) have been implemented to improve attention performance mechanisms for strong and discriminating deep spatial feature extraction that results in superior detection under various challenging environments. Moreover, additional feature fusion layers and a Swin-Transformer Prediction Head (SPH) have been added leveraging advanced self-attention mechanism for more efficient detection of multiscale object sizes and simultaneously reducing the computational complexity. Results: Evaluating the model performance in large-scale Road Damage Dataset (RDD-2018), at a detection rate of 62.4 FPS, DenseSPH-YOLOv5 obtains a mean average precision (mAP) value of 85.25 %, F1-score of 81.18 %, and precision (P) value of 89.51 % outperforming current state-of-the-art models. Significance: The present research provides an effective and efficient damage localization model addressing the shortcoming of existing DL-based damage detection models by providing highly accurate localized bounding box prediction. Current work constitutes a step towards an accurate and robust automated damage detection system in real-time in-field applications. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: DroNeRF: Real-time Multi-agent Drone Pose Optimization for Computing  Neural Radiance Fields<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04322<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We present a novel optimization algorithm called DroNeRF for the autonomous positioning of monocular camera drones around an object for real-time 3D reconstruction using only a few images. Neural Radiance Fields or NeRF, is a novel view synthesis technique used to generate new views of an object or scene from a set of input images. Using drones in conjunction with NeRF provides a unique and dynamic way to generate novel views of a scene, especially with limited scene capabilities of restricted movements. Our approach focuses on calculating optimized pose for individual drones while solely depending on the object geometry without using any external localization system. The unique camera positioning during the data-capturing phase significantly impacts the quality of the 3D model. To evaluate the quality of our generated novel views, we compute different perceptual metrics like the Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) and Structural Similarity Index Measure(SSIM). Our work demonstrates the benefit of using an optimal placement of various drones with limited mobility to generate perceptually better results. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Does Synthetic Data Generation of LLMs Help Clinical Text Mining?<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04360<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have led to the development of highly potent models like OpenAI's ChatGPT. These models have exhibited exceptional performance in a variety of tasks, such as question answering, essay composition, and code generation. However, their effectiveness in the healthcare sector remains uncertain. In this study, we seek to investigate the potential of ChatGPT to aid in clinical text mining by examining its ability to extract structured information from unstructured healthcare texts, with a focus on biological named entity recognition and relation extraction. However, our preliminary results indicate that employing ChatGPT directly for these tasks resulted in poor performance and raised privacy concerns associated with uploading patients' information to the ChatGPT API. To overcome these limitations, we propose a new training paradigm that involves generating a vast quantity of high-quality synthetic data with labels utilizing ChatGPT and fine-tuning a local model for the downstream task. Our method has resulted in significant improvements in the performance of downstream tasks, improving the F1-score from 23.37% to 63.99% for the named entity recognition task and from 75.86% to 83.59% for the relation extraction task. Furthermore, generating data using ChatGPT can significantly reduce the time and effort required for data collection and labeling, as well as mitigate data privacy concerns. In summary, the proposed framework presents a promising solution to enhance the applicability of LLM models to clinical text mining. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: SANDFORMER: CNN and Transformer under Gated Fusion for Sand Dust Image  Restoration<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04365<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Although Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) have made good progress in image restoration, the intrinsic equivalence and locality of convolutions still constrain further improvements in image quality. Recent vision transformer and self-attention have achieved promising results on various computer vision tasks. However, directly utilizing Transformer for image restoration is a challenging task. In this paper, we introduce an effective hybrid architecture for sand image restoration tasks, which leverages local features from CNN and long-range dependencies captured by transformer to improve the results further. We propose an efficient hybrid structure for sand dust image restoration to solve the feature inconsistency issue between Transformer and CNN. The framework complements each representation by modulating features from the CNN-based and Transformer-based branches rather than simply adding or concatenating features. Experiments demonstrate that SandFormer achieves significant performance improvements in synthetic and real dust scenes compared to previous sand image restoration methods. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: SGDViT: Saliency-Guided Dynamic Vision Transformer for UAV Tracking<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04378<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Vision-based object tracking has boosted extensive autonomous applications for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). However, the dynamic changes in flight maneuver and viewpoint encountered in UAV tracking pose significant difficulties, e.g. , aspect ratio change, and scale variation. The conventional cross-correlation operation, while commonly used, has limitations in effectively capturing perceptual similarity and incorporates extraneous background information. To mitigate these limitations, this work presents a novel saliency-guided dynamic vision Transformer (SGDViT) for UAV tracking. The proposed method designs a new task-specific object saliency mining network to refine the cross-correlation operation and effectively discriminate foreground and background information. Additionally, a saliency adaptation embedding operation dynamically generates tokens based on initial saliency, thereby reducing the computational complexity of the Transformer architecture. Finally, a lightweight saliency filtering Transformer further refines saliency information and increases the focus on appearance information. The efficacy and robustness of the proposed approach have been thoroughly assessed through experiments on three widely-used UAV tracking benchmarks and real-world scenarios, with results demonstrating its superiority. The source code and demo videos are available at https://github.com/vision4robotics/SGDViT. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: NASTyLinker: NIL-Aware Scalable Transformer-based Entity Linker<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04426<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Entity Linking (EL) is the task of detecting mentions of entities in text and disambiguating them to a reference knowledge base. Most prevalent EL approaches assume that the reference knowledge base is complete. In practice, however, it is necessary to deal with the case of linking to an entity that is not contained in the knowledge base (NIL entity). Recent works have shown that, instead of focusing only on affinities between mentions and entities, considering inter-mention affinities can be used to represent NIL entities by producing clusters of mentions. At the same time, inter-mention affinities can help to substantially improve linking performance for known entities. With NASTyLinker, we introduce an EL approach that is aware of NIL-entities and produces corresponding mention clusters while maintaining high linking performance for known entities. The approach clusters mentions and entities based on dense representations from Transformers and resolves conflicts (if more than one entity is assigned to a cluster) by computing transitive mention-entity affinities. We show the effectiveness and scalability of NASTyLinker on NILK, a dataset that is explicitly constructed to evaluate EL with respect to NIL-entities. Further, we apply the presented approach to an actual EL task, namely to knowledge graph population by linking entities in Wikipedia listings, and provide an analysis of the outcome. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Balancing DSO interests and PV system economics with alternative tariffs<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04433<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Distributed rooftop photovoltaics (PV) is one of the pillars of the energy transition. However, the massive integration of distributed PV systems challenges the existing grid, with high amounts of PV injection possibly leading to over-voltage and reverse power flow, with line and transformer overloading, among other issues. Moreover, the increase in PV self-consumption and consequently the reduction of imported electricity poses a problem in recovering Transmission System Operators (TSOs) and Distribution System Operators (DSOs) grid costs, that until now have been directly linked to the amount of electricity consumed due to the volumetric nature of traditional tariffs. To investigate whether alternative tariffs could mitigate PV impacts at the distribution level without hampering PV development, we assess five electricity tariffs that could help the DSOs to recover the costs of maintaining the distribution grid. Additionally, we evaluate how such tariffs may affect private investment in storage and their impact on three types of low-voltage networks (i.e., urban, semi-urban, and rural). We found that tariffs with a capacity-based component promote further adoption of PV and storage. At the same time, they allow the DSOs to recover the grid cost without incurring relevant economic differences for the customer. However, all assessed tariffs were found to have a limited role in mitigating PV impacts at the distribution level. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Full Point Encoding for Local Feature Aggregation in 3D Point Clouds<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04458<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Point cloud processing methods exploit local point features and global context through aggregation which does not explicity model the internal correlations between local and global features. To address this problem, we propose full point encoding which is applicable to convolution and transformer architectures. Specifically, we propose Full Point Convolution (FPConv) and Full Point Transformer (FPTransformer) architectures. The key idea is to adaptively learn the weights from local and global geometric connections, where the connections are established through local and global correlation functions respectively. FPConv and FPTransformer simultaneously model the local and global geometric relationships as well as their internal correlations, demonstrating strong generalization ability and high performance. FPConv is incorporated in classical hierarchical network architectures to achieve local and global shape-aware learning. In FPTransformer, we introduce full point position encoding in self-attention, that hierarchically encodes each point position in the global and local receptive field. We also propose a shape aware downsampling block which takes into account the local shape and the global context. Experimental comparison to existing methods on benchmark datasets show the efficacy of FPConv and FPTransformer for semantic segmentation, object detection, classification, and normal estimation tasks. In particular, we achieve state-of-the-art semantic segmentation results of 76% mIoU on S3DIS 6-fold and 72.2% on S3DIS Area5. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Query-Utterance Attention with Joint modeling for Query-Focused Meeting  Summarization<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04487<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Query-focused meeting summarization (QFMS) aims to generate summaries from meeting transcripts in response to a given query. Previous works typically concatenate the query with meeting transcripts and implicitly model the query relevance only at the token level with attention mechanism. However, due to the dilution of key query-relevant information caused by long meeting transcripts, the original transformer-based model is insufficient to highlight the key parts related to the query. In this paper, we propose a query-aware framework with joint modeling token and utterance based on Query-Utterance Attention. It calculates the utterance-level relevance to the query with a dense retrieval module. Then both token-level query relevance and utterance-level query relevance are combined and incorporated into the generation process with attention mechanism explicitly. We show that the query relevance of different granularities contributes to generating a summary more related to the query. Experimental results on the QMSum dataset show that the proposed model achieves new state-of-the-art performance. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Magnushammer: A Transformer-based Approach to Premise Selection<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04488<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Premise selection is a fundamental problem of automated theorem proving. Previous works often use intricate symbolic methods, rely on domain knowledge, and require significant engineering effort to solve this task. In this work, we show that Magnushammer, a neural transformer-based approach, can outperform traditional symbolic systems by a large margin. Tested on the PISA benchmark, Magnushammer achieves $59.5\%$ proof rate compared to a $38.3\%$ proof rate of Sledgehammer, the most mature and popular symbolic-based solver. Furthermore, by combining Magnushammer with a neural formal prover based on a language model, we significantly improve the previous state-of-the-art proof rate from $57.0\%$ to $71.0\%$. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: FastSurf: Fast Neural RGB-D Surface Reconstruction using Per-Frame  Intrinsic Refinement and TSDF Fusion Prior Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04508<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We introduce FastSurf, an accelerated neural radiance field (NeRF) framework that incorporates depth information for 3D reconstruction. A dense feature grid and shallow multi-layer perceptron are used for fast and accurate surface optimization of the entire scene. Our per-frame intrinsic refinement scheme corrects the frame-specific errors that cannot be handled by global optimization. Furthermore, FastSurf utilizes a classical real-time 3D surface reconstruction method, the truncated signed distance field (TSDF) Fusion, as prior knowledge to pretrain the feature grid to accelerate the training. The quantitative and qualitative experiments comparing the performances of FastSurf against prior work indicate that our method is capable of quickly and accurately reconstructing a scene with high-frequency details. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our per-frame intrinsic refinement and TSDF Fusion prior learning techniques via an ablation study. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Continuity-Aware Latent Interframe Information Mining for Reliable UAV  Tracking<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04525<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) tracking is crucial for autonomous navigation and has broad applications in robotic automation fields. However, reliable UAV tracking remains a challenging task due to various difficulties like frequent occlusion and aspect ratio change. Additionally, most of the existing work mainly focuses on explicit information to improve tracking performance, ignoring potential interframe connections. To address the above issues, this work proposes a novel framework with continuity-aware latent interframe information mining for reliable UAV tracking, i.e., ClimRT. Specifically, a new efficient continuity-aware latent interframe information mining network (ClimNet) is proposed for UAV tracking, which can generate highly-effective latent frame between two adjacent frames. Besides, a novel location-continuity Transformer (LCT) is designed to fully explore continuity-aware spatial-temporal information, thereby markedly enhancing UAV tracking. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments on three authoritative aerial benchmarks strongly validate the robustness and reliability of ClimRT in UAV tracking performance. Furthermore, real-world tests on the aerial platform validate its practicability and effectiveness. The code and demo materials are released at https://github.com/vision4robotics/ClimRT. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: A Prompt Log Analysis of Text-to-Image Generation Systems<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04587<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recent developments in diffusion models have unleashed the astonishing capabilities of text-to-image generation systems to synthesize high-quality images that are faithful to a given reference text, known as a "prompt." These systems, once released to the public, have immediately received tons of attention from researchers, creators, and common users. Despite the plenty of efforts to improve the underneath generative models, there is limited work on understanding the information needs of the real users of these systems, e.g., by investigating the prompts the users input at scale. In this paper, we take the initiative to conduct a comprehensive analysis of large-scale prompt logs collected from multiple text-to-image generation systems. Our work is analogous to analyzing the query log of Web search engines, a line of work that has made critical contributions to the glory of the Web search industry and research. We analyze over two million user-input prompts submitted to three popular text-to-image systems at scale. Compared to Web search queries, text-to-image prompts are significantly longer, often organized into unique structures, and present different categories of information needs. Users tend to make more edits within creation sessions, showing remarkable exploratory patterns. Our findings provide concrete implications on how to improve text-to-image generation systems for creation purposes. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Point Cloud Classification Using Content-based Transformer via  Clustering in Feature Space<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04599<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recently, there have been some attempts of Transformer in 3D point cloud classification. In order to reduce computations, most existing methods focus on local spatial attention, but ignore their content and fail to establish relationships between distant but relevant points. To overcome the limitation of local spatial attention, we propose a point content-based Transformer architecture, called PointConT for short. It exploits the locality of points in the feature space (content-based), which clusters the sampled points with similar features into the same class and computes the self-attention within each class, thus enabling an effective trade-off between capturing long-range dependencies and computational complexity. We further introduce an Inception feature aggregator for point cloud classification, which uses parallel structures to aggregate high-frequency and low-frequency information in each branch separately. Extensive experiments show that our PointConT model achieves a remarkable performance on point cloud shape classification. Especially, our method exhibits 90.3% Top-1 accuracy on the hardest setting of ScanObjectNN. Source code of this paper is available at https://github.com/yahuiliu99/PointConT. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Transformer-based Image Generation from Scene Graphs<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04634<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Graph-structured scene descriptions can be efficiently used in generative models to control the composition of the generated image. Previous approaches are based on the combination of graph convolutional networks and adversarial methods for layout prediction and image generation, respectively. In this work, we show how employing multi-head attention to encode the graph information, as well as using a transformer-based model in the latent space for image generation can improve the quality of the sampled data, without the need to employ adversarial models with the subsequent advantage in terms of training stability. The proposed approach, specifically, is entirely based on transformer architectures both for encoding scene graphs into intermediate object layouts and for decoding these layouts into images, passing through a lower dimensional space learned by a vector-quantized variational autoencoder. Our approach shows an improved image quality with respect to state-of-the-art methods as well as a higher degree of diversity among multiple generations from the same scene graph. We evaluate our approach on three public datasets: Visual Genome, COCO, and CLEVR. We achieve an Inception Score of 13.7 and 12.8, and an FID of 52.3 and 60.3, on COCO and Visual Genome, respectively. We perform ablation studies on our contributions to assess the impact of each component. Code is available at https://github.com/perceivelab/trf-sg2im <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Diffusing Gaussian Mixtures for Generating Categorical Data<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04635<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Learning a categorical distribution comes with its own set of challenges. A successful approach taken by state-of-the-art works is to cast the problem in a continuous domain to take advantage of the impressive performance of the generative models for continuous data. Amongst them are the recently emerging diffusion probabilistic models, which have the observed advantage of generating high-quality samples. Recent advances for categorical generative models have focused on log likelihood improvements. In this work, we propose a generative model for categorical data based on diffusion models with a focus on high-quality sample generation, and propose sampled-based evaluation methods. The efficacy of our method stems from performing diffusion in the continuous domain while having its parameterization informed by the structure of the categorical nature of the target distribution. Our method of evaluation highlights the capabilities and limitations of different generative models for generating categorical data, and includes experiments on synthetic and real-world protein datasets. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Centroid-centered Modeling for Efficient Vision Transformer Pre-training<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04664<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Masked Image Modeling (MIM) is a new self-supervised vision pre-training paradigm using Vision Transformer (ViT). Previous works can be pixel-based or token-based, using original pixels or discrete visual tokens from parametric tokenizer models, respectively. Our proposed approach, \textbf{CCViT}, leverages k-means clustering to obtain centroids for image modeling without supervised training of tokenizer model. The centroids represent patch pixels and index tokens and have the property of local invariance. Non-parametric centroid tokenizer only takes seconds to create and is faster for token inference. Specifically, we adopt patch masking and centroid replacement strategies to construct corrupted inputs, and two stacked encoder blocks to predict corrupted patch tokens and reconstruct original patch pixels. Experiments show that the ViT-B model with only 300 epochs achieves 84.3\% top-1 accuracy on ImageNet-1K classification and 51.6\% on ADE20K semantic segmentation. Our approach achieves competitive results with BEiTv2 without distillation training from other models and outperforms other methods such as MAE. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Visual ChatGPT: Talking, Drawing and Editing with Visual Foundation  Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04671<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: ChatGPT is attracting a cross-field interest as it provides a language interface with remarkable conversational competency and reasoning capabilities across many domains. However, since ChatGPT is trained with languages, it is currently not capable of processing or generating images from the visual world. At the same time, Visual Foundation Models, such as Visual Transformers or Stable Diffusion, although showing great visual understanding and generation capabilities, they are only experts on specific tasks with one-round fixed inputs and outputs. To this end, We build a system called \textbf{Visual ChatGPT}, incorporating different Visual Foundation Models, to enable the user to interact with ChatGPT by 1) sending and receiving not only languages but also images 2) providing complex visual questions or visual editing instructions that require the collaboration of multiple AI models with multi-steps. 3) providing feedback and asking for corrected results. We design a series of prompts to inject the visual model information into ChatGPT, considering models of multiple inputs/outputs and models that require visual feedback. Experiments show that Visual ChatGPT opens the door to investigating the visual roles of ChatGPT with the help of Visual Foundation Models. Our system is publicly available at \url{https://github.com/microsoft/visual-chatgpt}. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Cost-Effective Hyperparameter Optimization for Large Language Model  Generation Inference<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04673<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-3 have sparked significant interest in their generative capabilities, leading to the development of various commercial applications. The high cost of using the models drives application builders to maximize the value of generation under a limited inference budget. This paper presents a study of optimizing inference hyperparameters like the number of responses, temperature and max tokens, which significantly affects the utility/cost of text generation. We design a framework named EcoOptiGen which leverages economical hyperparameter optimization and cost-based pruning. Experiments with the latest GPT-3.5 models on a variety of tasks verify its effectiveness. EcoOptiGen is implemented in the FLAML library: https://github.com/microsoft/FLAML, and we provide one example of using it at: https://microsoft.github.io/FLAML/docs/Examples/Integrate%20-%20OpenAI. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: On the Risks of Stealing the Decoding Algorithms of Language Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04729<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: A key component of generating text from modern language models (LM) is the selection and tuning of decoding algorithms. These algorithms determine how to generate text from the internal probability distribution generated by the LM. The process of choosing a decoding algorithm and tuning its hyperparameters takes significant time, manual effort, and computation, and it also requires extensive human evaluation. Therefore, the identity and hyperparameters of such decoding algorithms are considered to be extremely valuable to their owners. In this work, we show, for the first time, that an adversary with typical API access to an LM can steal the type and hyperparameters of its decoding algorithms at very low monetary costs. Our attack is effective against popular LMs used in text generation APIs, including GPT-2 and GPT-3. We demonstrate the feasibility of stealing such information with only a few dollars, e.g., $\$0.8$, $\$1$, $\$4$, and $\$40$ for the four versions of GPT-3. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Defectors: A Large, Diverse Python Dataset for Defect Prediction<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04738<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Defect prediction has been a popular research topic where machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) have found numerous applications. However, these ML/DL-based defect prediction models are often limited by the quality and size of their datasets. In this paper, we present Defectors, a large dataset for just-in-time and line-level defect prediction. Defectors consists of $\approx$ 213K source code files ($\approx$ 93K defective and $\approx$ 120K defect-free) that span across 24 popular Python projects. These projects come from 18 different domains, including machine learning, automation, and internet-of-things. Such a scale and diversity make Defectors a suitable dataset for training ML/DL models, especially transformer models that require large and diverse datasets. We also foresee several application areas of our dataset including defect prediction and defect explanation. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: GETNext: Trajectory Flow Map Enhanced Transformer for Next POI  Recommendation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04741<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Next POI recommendation intends to forecast users' immediate future movements given their current status and historical information, yielding great values for both users and service providers. However, this problem is perceptibly complex because various data trends need to be considered together. This includes the spatial locations, temporal contexts, user's preferences, etc. Most existing studies view the next POI recommendation as a sequence prediction problem while omitting the collaborative signals from other users. Instead, we propose a user-agnostic global trajectory flow map and a novel Graph Enhanced Transformer model (GETNext) to better exploit the extensive collaborative signals for a more accurate next POI prediction, and alleviate the cold start problem in the meantime. GETNext incorporates the global transition patterns, user's general preference, spatio-temporal context, and time-aware category embeddings together into a transformer model to make the prediction of user's future moves. With this design, our model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods with a large margin and also sheds light on the cold start challenges within the spatio-temporal involved recommendation problems. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Vector Quantized Time Series Generation with a Bidirectional Prior Model<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04743<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Time series generation (TSG) studies have mainly focused on the use of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) combined with recurrent neural network (RNN) variants. However, the fundamental limitations and challenges of training GANs still remain. In addition, the RNN-family typically has difficulties with temporal consistency between distant timesteps. Motivated by the successes in the image generation (IMG) domain, we propose TimeVQVAE, the first work, to our knowledge, that uses vector quantization (VQ) techniques to address the TSG problem. Moreover, the priors of the discrete latent spaces are learned with bidirectional transformer models that can better capture global temporal consistency. We also propose VQ modeling in a time-frequency domain, separated into low-frequency (LF) and high-frequency (HF). This allows us to retain important characteristics of the time series and, in turn, generate new synthetic signals that are of better quality, with sharper changes in modularity, than its competing TSG methods. Our experimental evaluation is conducted on all datasets from the UCR archive, using well-established metrics in the IMG literature, such as Fr\'echet inception distance and inception scores. Our implementation on GitHub: \url{https://github.com/ML4ITS/TimeVQVAE}. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: CLIP-FO3D: Learning Free Open-world 3D Scene Representations from 2D  Dense CLIP<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04748<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Training a 3D scene understanding model requires complicated human annotations, which are laborious to collect and result in a model only encoding close-set object semantics. In contrast, vision-language pre-training models (e.g., CLIP) have shown remarkable open-world reasoning properties. To this end, we propose directly transferring CLIP's feature space to 3D scene understanding model without any form of supervision. We first modify CLIP's input and forwarding process so that it can be adapted to extract dense pixel features for 3D scene contents. We then project multi-view image features to the point cloud and train a 3D scene understanding model with feature distillation. Without any annotations or additional training, our model achieves promising annotation-free semantic segmentation results on open-vocabulary semantics and long-tailed concepts. Besides, serving as a cross-modal pre-training framework, our method can be used to improve data efficiency during fine-tuning. Our model outperforms previous SOTA methods in various zero-shot and data-efficient learning benchmarks. Most importantly, our model successfully inherits CLIP's rich-structured knowledge, allowing 3D scene understanding models to recognize not only object concepts but also open-world semantics. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Multimodal Parameter-Efficient Few-Shot Class Incremental Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04751<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Few-Shot Class Incremental Learning (FSCIL) is a challenging continual learning task, where limited training examples are available during several learning sessions. To succeed in this task, it is necessary to avoid over-fitting new classes caused by biased distributions in the few-shot training sets. The general approach to address this issue involves enhancing the representational capability of a pre-defined backbone architecture by adding special modules for backward compatibility with older classes. However, this approach has not yet solved the dilemma of ensuring high classification accuracy over time while reducing the gap between the performance obtained on larger training sets and the smaller ones. In this work, we propose an alternative approach called Continual Parameter-Efficient CLIP (CPE-CLIP) to reduce the loss of information between different learning sessions. Instead of adapting additional modules to address information loss, we leverage the vast knowledge acquired by CLIP in large-scale pre-training and its effectiveness in generalizing to new concepts. Our approach is multimodal and parameter-efficient, relying on learnable prompts for both the language and vision encoders to enable transfer learning across sessions. We also introduce prompt regularization to improve performance and prevent forgetting. Our experimental results demonstrate that CPE-CLIP significantly improves FSCIL performance compared to state-of-the-art proposals while also drastically reducing the number of learnable parameters and training costs. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Video-P2P: Video Editing with Cross-attention Control<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04761<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: This paper presents Video-P2P, a novel framework for real-world video editing with cross-attention control. While attention control has proven effective for image editing with pre-trained image generation models, there are currently no large-scale video generation models publicly available. Video-P2P addresses this limitation by adapting an image generation diffusion model to complete various video editing tasks. Specifically, we propose to first tune a Text-to-Set (T2S) model to complete an approximate inversion and then optimize a shared unconditional embedding to achieve accurate video inversion with a small memory cost. For attention control, we introduce a novel decoupled-guidance strategy, which uses different guidance strategies for the source and target prompts. The optimized unconditional embedding for the source prompt improves reconstruction ability, while an initialized unconditional embedding for the target prompt enhances editability. Incorporating the attention maps of these two branches enables detailed editing. These technical designs enable various text-driven editing applications, including word swap, prompt refinement, and attention re-weighting. Video-P2P works well on real-world videos for generating new characters while optimally preserving their original poses and scenes. It significantly outperforms previous approaches. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Multilevel Diffusion: Infinite Dimensional Score-Based Diffusion Models  for Image Generation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04772<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Score-based diffusion models (SBDM) have recently emerged as state-of-the-art approaches for image generation. Existing SBDMs are typically formulated in a finite-dimensional setting, where images are considered as tensors of a finite size. This papers develops SBDMs in the infinite-dimensional setting, that is, we model the training data as functions supported on a rectangular domain. Besides the quest for generating images at ever higher resolution our primary motivation is to create a well-posed infinite-dimensional learning problem so that we can discretize it consistently on multiple resolution levels. We thereby hope to obtain diffusion models that generalize across different resolution levels and improve the efficiency of the training process. We demonstrate how to overcome two shortcomings of current SBDM approaches in the infinite-dimensional setting. First, we modify the forward process to ensure that the latent distribution is well-defined in the infinite-dimensional setting using the notion of trace class operators. Second, we illustrate that approximating the score function with an operator network, in our case Fourier neural operators (FNOs), is beneficial for multilevel training. After deriving the forward and reverse process in the infinite-dimensional setting, we show their well-posedness, derive adequate discretizations, and investigate the role of the latent distributions. We provide first promising numerical results on two datasets, MNIST and material structures. In particular, we show that multilevel training is feasible within this framework. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Comprehensive Event Representations using Event Knowledge Graphs and  Natural Language Processing<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04794<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recent work has utilised knowledge-aware approaches to natural language understanding, question answering, recommendation systems, and other tasks. These approaches rely on well-constructed and large-scale knowledge graphs that can be useful for many downstream applications and empower knowledge-aware models with commonsense reasoning. Such knowledge graphs are constructed through knowledge acquisition tasks such as relation extraction and knowledge graph completion. This work seeks to utilise and build on the growing body of work that uses findings from the field of natural language processing (NLP) to extract knowledge from text and build knowledge graphs. The focus of this research project is on how we can use transformer-based approaches to extract and contextualise event information, matching it to existing ontologies, to build a comprehensive knowledge of graph-based event representations. Specifically, sub-event extraction is used as a way of creating sub-event-aware event representations. These event representations are then further enriched through fine-grained location extraction and contextualised through the alignment of historically relevant quotes. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Open-Vocabulary Panoptic Segmentation with Text-to-Image Diffusion  Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04803<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We present ODISE: Open-vocabulary DIffusion-based panoptic SEgmentation, which unifies pre-trained text-image diffusion and discriminative models to perform open-vocabulary panoptic segmentation. Text-to-image diffusion models have shown the remarkable capability of generating high-quality images with diverse open-vocabulary language descriptions. This demonstrates that their internal representation space is highly correlated with open concepts in the real world. Text-image discriminative models like CLIP, on the other hand, are good at classifying images into open-vocabulary labels. We propose to leverage the frozen representation of both these models to perform panoptic segmentation of any category in the wild. Our approach outperforms the previous state of the art by significant margins on both open-vocabulary panoptic and semantic segmentation tasks. In particular, with COCO training only, our method achieves 23.4 PQ and 30.0 mIoU on the ADE20K dataset, with 8.3 PQ and 7.9 mIoU absolute improvement over the previous state-of-the-art. Project page is available at \url{https://jerryxu.net/ODISE}. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Diffusion in the Dark: A Diffusion Model for Low-Light Text Recognition<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04291<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Images are indispensable for the automation of high-level tasks, such as text recognition. Low-light conditions pose a challenge for these high-level perception stacks, which are often optimized on well-lit, artifact-free images. Reconstruction methods for low-light images can produce well-lit counterparts, but typically at the cost of high-frequency details critical for downstream tasks. We propose Diffusion in the Dark (DiD), a diffusion model for low-light image reconstruction that provides qualitatively competitive reconstructions with that of SOTA, while preserving high-frequency details even in extremely noisy, dark conditions. We demonstrate that DiD, without any task-specific optimization, can outperform SOTA low-light methods in low-light text recognition on real images, bolstering the potential of diffusion models for ill-posed inverse problems. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Learning Enhancement From Degradation: A Diffusion Model For Fundus  Image Enhancement<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04603<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The quality of a fundus image can be compromised by numerous factors, many of which are challenging to be appropriately and mathematically modeled. In this paper, we introduce a novel diffusion model based framework, named Learning Enhancement from Degradation (LED), for enhancing fundus images. Specifically, we first adopt a data-driven degradation framework to learn degradation mappings from unpaired high-quality to low-quality images. We then apply a conditional diffusion model to learn the inverse enhancement process in a paired manner. The proposed LED is able to output enhancement results that maintain clinically important features with better clarity. Moreover, in the inference phase, LED can be easily and effectively integrated with any existing fundus image enhancement framework. We evaluate the proposed LED on several downstream tasks with respect to various clinically-relevant metrics, successfully demonstrating its superiority over existing state-of-the-art methods both quantitatively and qualitatively. The source code is available at https://github.com/QtacierP/LED. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Forecasting the movements of Bitcoin prices: an application of machine  learning algorithms<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.04642<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, are one of the most controversial and complex technological innovations in today's financial system. This study aims to forecast the movements of Bitcoin prices at a high degree of accuracy. To this aim, four different Machine Learning (ML) algorithms are applied, namely, the Support Vector Machines (SVM), the Artificial Neural Network (ANN), the Naive Bayes (NB) and the Random Forest (RF) besides the logistic regression (LR) as a benchmark model. In order to test these algorithms, besides existing continuous dataset, discrete dataset was also created and used. For the evaluations of algorithm performances, the F statistic, accuracy statistic, the Mean Absolute Error (MAE), the Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and the Root Absolute Error (RAE) metrics were used. The t test was used to compare the performances of the SVM, ANN, NB and RF with the performance of the LR. Empirical findings reveal that, while the RF has the highest forecasting performance in the continuous dataset, the NB has the lowest. On the other hand, while the ANN has the highest and the NB the lowest performance in the discrete dataset. Furthermore, the discrete dataset improves the overall forecasting performance in all algorithms (models) estimated. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/></body>
        </html>
