<html>
        <body>
        <p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Building High-accuracy Multilingual ASR with Gated Language Experts and  Curriculum Training<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00786<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We propose gated language experts to improve multilingual transformer transducer models without any language identification (LID) input from users during inference. We define gating mechanism and LID loss to let transformer encoders learn language-dependent information, construct the multilingual transformer block with gated transformer experts and shared transformer layers for compact models, and apply linear experts on joint network output to better regularize speech acoustic and token label joint information. Furthermore, a curriculum training scheme is proposed to let LID guide the gated language experts for better serving their corresponding languages. Evaluated on the English and Spanish bilingual task, our methods achieve average 12.5% and 7.3% relative word error reductions over the baseline bilingual model and monolingual models, respectively, obtaining similar results to the upper bound model trained and inferred with oracle LID. We further explore our method on trilingual, quadrilingual, and pentalingual models, and observe similar advantages as in the bilingual models, which demonstrates the easy extension to more languages. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Continuous-Time Functional Diffusion Processes<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00800<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We introduce functional diffusion processes (FDPs), which generalize traditional score-based diffusion models to infinite-dimensional function spaces. FDPs require a new mathematical framework to describe the forward and backward dynamics, and several extensions to derive practical training objectives. These include infinite-dimensional versions of the Girsanov theorem, in order to be able to compute an ELBO, and of the sampling theorem, in order to guarantee that functional evaluations in a countable set of points are equivalent to infinite-dimensional functions. We use FDPs to build a new breed of generative models in function spaces, which do not require specialized network architectures, and that can work with any kind of continuous data. Our results on synthetic and real data illustrate the advantages of FDPs in simplifying the design requirements of diffusion models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Learning high-dimensional causal effect<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00821<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The scarcity of high-dimensional causal inference datasets restricts the exploration of complex deep models. In this work, we propose a method to generate a synthetic causal dataset that is high-dimensional. The synthetic data simulates a causal effect using the MNIST dataset with Bernoulli treatment values. This provides an opportunity to study varieties of models for causal effect estimation. We experiment on this dataset using Dragonnet architecture (Shi et al. (2019)) and modified architectures. We use the modified architectures to explore different types of initial Neural Network layers and observe that the modified architectures perform better in estimations. We observe that residual and transformer models estimate treatment effect very closely without the need for targeted regularization, introduced by Shi et al. (2019). <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Understanding the Diffusion Objective as a Weighted Integral of ELBOs<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00848<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Diffusion models in the literature are optimized with various objectives that are special cases of a weighted loss, where the weighting function specifies the weight per noise level. Uniform weighting corresponds to maximizing the ELBO, a principled approximation of maximum likelihood. In current practice diffusion models are optimized with non-uniform weighting due to better results in terms of sample quality. In this work we expose a direct relationship between the weighted loss (with any weighting) and the ELBO objective. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Development of a stable two-phase contact MPM algorithm for saturated  soil-structure interaction problems<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00860<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The simulation of soil-structure interaction problems involving two-phase materials poses significant challenges in geotechnical engineering. These challenges arise due to differences in material stiffnesses, the interaction between multiple phases, high bulk modulus of pore fluid, and low permeability. The conventional explicit time integration scheme is limited by its conditional stability, necessitating small time step sizes and resulting in pressure oscillations under rapid loading conditions. To address these issues, we propose a stable two-phase contact algorithm within the Material Point Method (MPM) framework for soil-structure interaction problems. Our algorithm models the soil as a fully saturated porous media with incompressible pore fluid. We introduce three main advancements over conventional MPM methods. We employ Chorin's projection method to solve coupled formulations and reduce numerical oscillations. By implicitly handling a diffusion term, our algorithm permits larger stable time step sizes, independent of the bulk modulus and permeability of the pore fluid. Lastly, We integrate a rigid algorithm to model solid bodies accurately and a precise contact detection algorithm. We provide detailed formulations and time increment processes of the two-phase contact MPM algorithm. Furthermore, we compare the proposed algorithm with Finite Element Method (FEM) and explicit MPM to assess its accuracy and performance in simulating coupled hydro-mechanical problems. The two-phase contact algorithm offers a more stable and efficient approach to simulate soil-structure interaction problems. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: AMIGO: Sparse Multi-Modal Graph Transformer with Shared-Context  Processing for Representation Learning of Giga-pixel Images<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00865<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Processing giga-pixel whole slide histopathology images (WSI) is a computationally expensive task. Multiple instance learning (MIL) has become the conventional approach to process WSIs, in which these images are split into smaller patches for further processing. However, MIL-based techniques ignore explicit information about the individual cells within a patch. In this paper, by defining the novel concept of shared-context processing, we designed a multi-modal Graph Transformer (AMIGO) that uses the celluar graph within the tissue to provide a single representation for a patient while taking advantage of the hierarchical structure of the tissue, enabling a dynamic focus between cell-level and tissue-level information. We benchmarked the performance of our model against multiple state-of-the-art methods in survival prediction and showed that ours can significantly outperform all of them including hierarchical Vision Transformer (ViT). More importantly, we show that our model is strongly robust to missing information to an extent that it can achieve the same performance with as low as 20% of the data. Finally, in two different cancer datasets, we demonstrated that our model was able to stratify the patients into low-risk and high-risk groups while other state-of-the-art methods failed to achieve this goal. We also publish a large dataset of immunohistochemistry images (InUIT) containing 1,600 tissue microarray (TMA) cores from 188 patients along with their survival information, making it one of the largest publicly available datasets in this context. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Large-Scale Domain-Specific Pretraining for Biomedical Vision-Language  Processing<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00915<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Contrastive pretraining on parallel image-text data has attained great success in vision-language processing (VLP), as exemplified by CLIP and related methods. However, prior explorations tend to focus on general domains in the web. Biomedical images and text are rather different, but publicly available datasets are small and skew toward chest X-ray, thus severely limiting progress. In this paper, we conducted by far the largest study on biomedical VLP, using 15 million figure-caption pairs extracted from biomedical research articles in PubMed Central. Our dataset (PMC-15M) is two orders of magnitude larger than existing biomedical image-text datasets such as MIMIC-CXR, and spans a diverse range of biomedical images. The standard CLIP method is suboptimal for the biomedical domain. We propose BiomedCLIP with domain-specific adaptations tailored to biomedical VLP. We conducted extensive experiments and ablation studies on standard biomedical imaging tasks from retrieval to classification to visual question-answering (VQA). BiomedCLIP established new state of the art in a wide range of standard datasets, substantially outperformed prior VLP approaches. Surprisingly, BiomedCLIP even outperformed radiology-specific state-of-the-art models such as BioViL on radiology-specific tasks such as RSNA pneumonia detection, thus highlighting the utility in large-scale pretraining across all biomedical image types. We will release our models at https://aka.ms/biomedclip to facilitate future research in biomedical VLP. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Enhancing General Face Forgery Detection via Vision Transformer with  Low-Rank Adaptation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00917<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Nowadays, forgery faces pose pressing security concerns over fake news, fraud, impersonation, etc. Despite the demonstrated success in intra-domain face forgery detection, existing detection methods lack generalization capability and tend to suffer from dramatic performance drops when deployed to unforeseen domains. To mitigate this issue, this paper designs a more general fake face detection model based on the vision transformer(ViT) architecture. In the training phase, the pretrained ViT weights are freezed, and only the Low-Rank Adaptation(LoRA) modules are updated. Additionally, the Single Center Loss(SCL) is applied to supervise the training process, further improving the generalization capability of the model. The proposed method achieves state-of-the-arts detection performances in both cross-manipulation and cross-dataset evaluations. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: ParaFormer: Parallel Attention Transformer for Efficient Feature  Matching<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00941<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Heavy computation is a bottleneck limiting deep-learningbased feature matching algorithms to be applied in many realtime applications. However, existing lightweight networks optimized for Euclidean data cannot address classical feature matching tasks, since sparse keypoint based descriptors are expected to be matched. This paper tackles this problem and proposes two concepts: 1) a novel parallel attention model entitled ParaFormer and 2) a graph based U-Net architecture with attentional pooling. First, ParaFormer fuses features and keypoint positions through the concept of amplitude and phase, and integrates self- and cross-attention in a parallel manner which achieves a win-win performance in terms of accuracy and efficiency. Second, with U-Net architecture and proposed attentional pooling, the ParaFormer-U variant significantly reduces computational complexity, and minimize performance loss caused by downsampling. Sufficient experiments on various applications, including homography estimation, pose estimation, and image matching, demonstrate that ParaFormer achieves state-of-the-art performance while maintaining high efficiency. The efficient ParaFormer-U variant achieves comparable performance with less than 50% FLOPs of the existing attention-based models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: MuscleMap: Towards Video-based Activated Muscle Group Estimation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00952<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In this paper, we tackle the new task of video-based Activated Muscle Group Estimation (AMGE) aiming at identifying currently activated muscular regions of humans performing a specific activity. Video-based AMGE is an important yet overlooked problem. To this intent, we provide the MuscleMap136 featuring &gt;15K video clips with 136 different activities and 20 labeled muscle groups. This dataset opens the vistas to multiple video-based applications in sports and rehabilitation medicine. We further complement the main MuscleMap136 dataset, which specifically targets physical exercise, with Muscle-UCF90 and Muscle-HMDB41, which are new variants of the well-known activity recognition benchmarks extended with AMGE annotations. With MuscleMap136, we discover limitations of state-of-the-art architectures for human activity recognition when dealing with multi-label muscle annotations and good generalization to unseen activities is required. To address this, we propose a new multimodal transformer-based model, TransM3E, which surpasses current activity recognition models for AMGE, especially as it comes to dealing with previously unseen activities. The datasets and code will be publicly available at https://github.com/KPeng9510/MuscleMap. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Preference Transformer: Modeling Human Preferences using Transformers  for RL<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00957<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Preference-based reinforcement learning (RL) provides a framework to train agents using human preferences between two behaviors. However, preference-based RL has been challenging to scale since it requires a large amount of human feedback to learn a reward function aligned with human intent. In this paper, we present Preference Transformer, a neural architecture that models human preferences using transformers. Unlike prior approaches assuming human judgment is based on the Markovian rewards which contribute to the decision equally, we introduce a new preference model based on the weighted sum of non-Markovian rewards. We then design the proposed preference model using a transformer architecture that stacks causal and bidirectional self-attention layers. We demonstrate that Preference Transformer can solve a variety of control tasks using real human preferences, while prior approaches fail to work. We also show that Preference Transformer can induce a well-specified reward and attend to critical events in the trajectory by automatically capturing the temporal dependencies in human decision-making. Code is available on the project website: https://sites.google.com/view/preference-transformer. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Learning to Grow Pretrained Models for Efficient Transformer Training<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00980<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Scaling transformers has led to significant breakthroughs in many domains, leading to a paradigm in which larger versions of existing models are trained and released on a periodic basis. New instances of such models are typically trained completely from scratch, despite the fact that they are often just scaled-up versions of their smaller counterparts. How can we use the implicit knowledge in the parameters of smaller, extant models to enable faster training of newer, larger models? This paper describes an approach for accelerating transformer training by learning to grow pretrained transformers, where we learn to linearly map the parameters of the smaller model to initialize the larger model. For tractable learning, we factorize the linear transformation as a composition of (linear) width- and depth-growth operators, and further employ a Kronecker factorization of these growth operators to encode architectural knowledge. Extensive experiments across both language and vision transformers demonstrate that our learned Linear Growth Operator (LiGO) can save up to 50% computational cost of training from scratch, while also consistently outperforming strong baselines that also reuse smaller pretrained models to initialize larger models. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Heterogeneous Graph Contrastive Learning for Recommendation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00995<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have become powerful tools in modeling graph-structured data in recommender systems. However, real-life recommendation scenarios usually involve heterogeneous relationships (e.g., social-aware user influence, knowledge-aware item dependency) which contains fruitful information to enhance the user preference learning. In this paper, we study the problem of heterogeneous graph-enhanced relational learning for recommendation. Recently, contrastive self-supervised learning has become successful in recommendation. In light of this, we propose a Heterogeneous Graph Contrastive Learning (HGCL), which is able to incorporate heterogeneous relational semantics into the user-item interaction modeling with contrastive learning-enhanced knowledge transfer across different views. However, the influence of heterogeneous side information on interactions may vary by users and items. To move this idea forward, we enhance our heterogeneous graph contrastive learning with meta networks to allow the personalized knowledge transformer with adaptive contrastive augmentation. The experimental results on three real-world datasets demonstrate the superiority of HGCL over state-of-the-art recommendation methods. Through ablation study, key components in HGCL method are validated to benefit the recommendation performance improvement. The source code of the model implementation is available at the link https://github.com/HKUDS/HGCL. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Adopting the Multi-answer Questioning Task with an Auxiliary Metric for  Extreme Multi-label Text Classification Utilizing the Label Hierarchy<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01064<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Extreme multi-label text classification utilizes the label hierarchy to partition extreme labels into multiple label groups, turning the task into simple multi-group multi-label classification tasks. Current research encodes labels as a vector with fixed length which needs establish multiple classifiers for different label groups. The problem is how to build only one classifier without sacrificing the label relationship in the hierarchy. This paper adopts the multi-answer questioning task for extreme multi-label classification. This paper also proposes an auxiliary classification evaluation metric. This study adopts the proposed method and the evaluation metric to the legal domain. The utilization of legal Berts and the study on task distribution are discussed. The experiment results show that the proposed hierarchy and multi-answer questioning task can do extreme multi-label classification for EURLEX dataset. And in minor/fine-tuning the multi-label classification task, the domain adapted BERT models could not show apparent advantages in this experiment. The method is also theoretically applicable to zero-shot learning. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Can BERT Refrain from Forgetting on Sequential Tasks? A Probing Study<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01081<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Large pre-trained language models help to achieve state of the art on a variety of natural language processing (NLP) tasks, nevertheless, they still suffer from forgetting when incrementally learning a sequence of tasks. To alleviate this problem, recent works enhance existing models by sparse experience replay and local adaption, which yield satisfactory performance. However, in this paper we find that pre-trained language models like BERT have a potential ability to learn sequentially, even without any sparse memory replay. To verify the ability of BERT to maintain old knowledge, we adopt and re-finetune single-layer probe networks with the parameters of BERT fixed. We investigate the models on two types of NLP tasks, text classification and extractive question answering. Our experiments reveal that BERT can actually generate high quality representations for previously learned tasks in a long term, under extremely sparse replay or even no replay. We further introduce a series of novel methods to interpret the mechanism of forgetting and how memory rehearsal plays a significant role in task incremental learning, which bridges the gap between our new discovery and previous studies about catastrophic forgetting. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: LiteG2P: A fast, light and high accuracy model for grapheme-to-phoneme  conversion<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01086<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: As a key component of automated speech recognition (ASR) and the front-end in text-to-speech (TTS), grapheme-to-phoneme (G2P) plays the role of converting letters to their corresponding pronunciations. Existing methods are either slow or poor in performance, and are limited in application scenarios, particularly in the process of on-device inference. In this paper, we integrate the advantages of both expert knowledge and connectionist temporal classification (CTC) based neural network and propose a novel method named LiteG2P which is fast, light and theoretically parallel. With the carefully leading design, LiteG2P can be applied both on cloud and on device. Experimental results on the CMU dataset show that the performance of the proposed method is superior to the state-of-the-art CTC based method with 10 times fewer parameters, and even comparable to the state-of-the-art Transformer-based sequence-to-sequence model with less parameters and 33 times less computation. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: CTRLStruct: Dialogue Structure Learning for Open-Domain Response  Generation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01094<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Dialogue structure discovery is essential in dialogue generation. Well-structured topic flow can leverage background information and predict future topics to help generate controllable and explainable responses. However, most previous work focused on dialogue structure learning in task-oriented dialogue other than open-domain dialogue which is more complicated and challenging. In this paper, we present a new framework CTRLStruct for dialogue structure learning to effectively explore topic-level dialogue clusters as well as their transitions with unlabelled information. Precisely, dialogue utterances encoded by bi-directional Transformer are further trained through a special designed contrastive learning task to improve representation. Then we perform clustering to utterance-level representations and form topic-level clusters that can be considered as vertices in dialogue structure graph. The edges in the graph indicating transition probability between vertices are calculated by mimicking expert behavior in datasets. Finally, dialogue structure graph is integrated into dialogue model to perform controlled response generation. Experiments on two popular open-domain dialogue datasets show our model can generate more coherent responses compared to some excellent dialogue models, as well as outperform some typical sentence embedding methods in dialogue utterance representation. Code is available in GitHub. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Distribution grid power flexibility aggregation at multiple  interconnections between the high and extra high voltage grid levels<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01107<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: The energy transition towards renewable based power provision requires improved monitoring and control of distributed energy resources (DERs), installed predominantly at the distribution grid level. Due to the gradual phase out of thermal generation, a shift of ancillary services provision like voltage control, congestion management and dynamic support from DERs is underway. Increased planning for procurement of ancillary services from underlying grid levels is required. Therefore, provision of flexible active and reactive power potentials from distribution system operators to transmission system operators at the vertical system interface is a subject of current research. At present, provision of active and reactive power flexibilities (PQ-flexibilities) across radial system interconnections are investigated, which involves a single transformer branch interconnection across two different voltage levels. Inclusion of multiple interconnections in a meshed grid structure increases the complexity as proximal interdependencies of interconnections to PQ-flexibilities require consideration. The objective of this paper is to address the flexibility aggregation across multiple vertical interconnections. Alternating current power transfer distribution factors (AC-PTDFs) are used to determine the power flow across the interconnections. Subsequent integration in a linear optimization environment controls the interconnection power flows (IPF) using a weighted objective function. Therefore, power flow regulation is enabled according to the requirements and specifications of both the underlying and overlaying grid level. The results show interdependent concentric flexibility regions or Feasible Operating Regions (FORs) in accordance with the manipulation of the weighted objective function. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Iterative Circuit Repair Against Formal Specifications<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01158<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We present a deep learning approach for repairing sequential circuits against formal specifications given in linear-time temporal logic (LTL). Given a defective circuit and its formal specification, we train Transformer models to output circuits that satisfy the corresponding specification. We propose a separated hierarchical Transformer for multimodal representation learning of the formal specification and the circuit. We introduce a data generation algorithm that enables generalization to more complex specifications and out-of-distribution datasets. In addition, our proposed repair mechanism significantly improves the automated synthesis of circuits from LTL specifications with Transformers. It improves the state-of-the-art by $6.8$ percentage points on held-out instances and $11.8$ percentage points on an out-of-distribution dataset from the annual reactive synthesis competition. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: A domain splitting strategy for solving PDEs<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01163<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In this work we develop a novel domain splitting strategy for the solution of partial differential equations. Focusing on a uniform discretization of the $d$-dimensional advection-diffusion equation, our proposal is a two-level algorithm that merges the solutions obtained from the discretization of the equation over highly anisotropic submeshes to compute an initial approximation of the fine solution. The algorithm then iteratively refines the initial guess by leveraging the structure of the residual. Performing costly calculations on anisotropic submeshes enable us to reduce the dimensionality of the problem by one, and the merging process, which involves the computation of solutions over disjoint domains, allows for parallel implementation. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: BPT: Binary Point Cloud Transformer for Place Recognition<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01166<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Place recognition, an algorithm to recognize the re-visited places, plays the role of back-end optimization trigger in a full SLAM system. Many works equipped with deep learning tools, such as MLP, CNN, and transformer, have achieved great improvements in this research field. Point cloud transformer is one of the excellent frameworks for place recognition applied in robotics, but with large memory consumption and expensive computation, it is adverse to widely deploy the various point cloud transformer networks in mobile or embedded devices. To solve this issue, we propose a binary point cloud transformer for place recognition. As a result, a 32-bit full-precision model can be reduced to a 1-bit model with less memory occupation and faster binarized bitwise operations. To our best knowledge, this is the first binary point cloud transformer that can be deployed on mobile devices for online applications such as place recognition. Experiments on several standard benchmarks demonstrate that the proposed method can get comparable results with the corresponding full-precision transformer model and even outperform some full-precision deep learning methods. For example, the proposed method achieves 93.28% at the top @1% and 85.74% at the top @1% on the Oxford RobotCar dataset in terms of the metric of the average recall rate. Meanwhile, the size and floating point operations of the model with the same transformer structure reduce 56.1% and 34.1% respectively from original precision to binary precision. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: UZH_CLyp at SemEval-2023 Task 9: Head-First Fine-Tuning and ChatGPT Data  Generation for Cross-Lingual Learning in Tweet Intimacy Prediction<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01194<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: This paper describes the submission of UZH_CLyp for the SemEval 2023 Task 9 "Multilingual Tweet Intimacy Analysis". We achieved second-best results in all 10 languages according to the official Pearson's correlation regression evaluation measure. Our cross-lingual transfer learning approach explores the benefits of using a Head-First Fine-Tuning method (HeFiT) that first updates only the regression head parameters and then also updates the pre-trained transformer encoder parameters at a reduced learning rate. Additionally, we study the impact of using a small set of automatically generated examples (in our case, from ChatGPT) for low-resource settings where no human-labeled data is available. Our study shows that HeFiT stabilizes training and consistently improves results for pre-trained models that lack domain adaptation to tweets. Our study also shows a noticeable performance increase in cross-lingual learning when synthetic data is used, confirming the usefulness of current text generation systems to improve zero-shot baseline results. Finally, we examine how possible inconsistencies in the annotated data contribute to cross-lingual interference issues. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: STDepthFormer: Predicting Spatio-temporal Depth from Video with a  Self-supervised Transformer Model<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01196<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In this paper, a self-supervised model that simultaneously predicts a sequence of future frames from video-input with a novel spatial-temporal attention (ST) network is proposed. The ST transformer network allows constraining both temporal consistency across future frames whilst constraining consistency across spatial objects in the image at different scales. This was not the case in prior works for depth prediction, which focused on predicting a single frame as output. The proposed model leverages prior scene knowledge such as object shape and texture similar to single-image depth inference methods, whilst also constraining the motion and geometry from a sequence of input images. Apart from the transformer architecture, one of the main contributions with respect to prior works lies in the objective function that enforces spatio-temporal consistency across a sequence of output frames rather than a single output frame. As will be shown, this results in more accurate and robust depth sequence forecasting. The model achieves highly accurate depth forecasting results that outperform existing baselines on the KITTI benchmark. Extensive ablation studies were performed to assess the effectiveness of the proposed techniques. One remarkable result of the proposed model is that it is implicitly capable of forecasting the motion of objects in the scene, rather than requiring complex models involving multi-object detection, segmentation and tracking. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Retrieval for Extremely Long Queries and Documents with RPRS: a Highly  Efficient and Effective Transformer-based Re-Ranker<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01200<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Retrieval with extremely long queries and documents is a well-known and challenging task in information retrieval and is commonly known as Query-by-Document (QBD) retrieval. Specifically designed Transformer models that can handle long input sequences have not shown high effectiveness in QBD tasks in previous work. We propose a Re-Ranker based on the novel Proportional Relevance Score (RPRS) to compute the relevance score between a query and the top-k candidate documents. Our extensive evaluation shows RPRS obtains significantly better results than the state-of-the-art models on five different datasets. Furthermore, RPRS is highly efficient since all documents can be pre-processed, embedded, and indexed before query time which gives our re-ranker the advantage of having a complexity of O(N) where N is the total number of sentences in the query and candidate documents. Furthermore, our method solves the problem of the low-resource training in QBD retrieval tasks as it does not need large amounts of training data, and has only three parameters with a limited range that can be optimized with a grid search even if a small amount of labeled data is available. Our detailed analysis shows that RPRS benefits from covering the full length of candidate documents and queries. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Synthetic Misinformers: Generating and Combating Multimodal  Misinformation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01217<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: With the expansion of social media and the increasing dissemination of multimedia content, the spread of misinformation has become a major concern. This necessitates effective strategies for multimodal misinformation detection (MMD) that detect whether the combination of an image and its accompanying text could mislead or misinform. Due to the data-intensive nature of deep neural networks and the labor-intensive process of manual annotation, researchers have been exploring various methods for automatically generating synthetic multimodal misinformation - which we refer to as Synthetic Misinformers - in order to train MMD models. However, limited evaluation on real-world misinformation and a lack of comparisons with other Synthetic Misinformers makes difficult to assess progress in the field. To address this, we perform a comparative study on existing and new Synthetic Misinformers that involves (1) out-of-context (OOC) image-caption pairs, (2) cross-modal named entity inconsistency (NEI) as well as (3) hybrid approaches and we evaluate them against real-world misinformation; using the COSMOS benchmark. The comparative study showed that our proposed CLIP-based Named Entity Swapping can lead to MMD models that surpass other OOC and NEI Misinformers in terms of multimodal accuracy and that hybrid approaches can lead to even higher detection accuracy. Nevertheless, after alleviating information leakage from the COSMOS evaluation protocol, low Sensitivity scores indicate that the task is significantly more challenging than previous studies suggested. Finally, our findings showed that NEI-based Synthetic Misinformers tend to suffer from a unimodal bias, where text-only MMDs can outperform multimodal ones. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: FlowFormer++: Masked Cost Volume Autoencoding for Pretraining Optical  Flow Estimation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01237<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: FlowFormer introduces a transformer architecture into optical flow estimation and achieves state-of-the-art performance. The core component of FlowFormer is the transformer-based cost-volume encoder. Inspired by the recent success of masked autoencoding (MAE) pretraining in unleashing transformers' capacity of encoding visual representation, we propose Masked Cost Volume Autoencoding (MCVA) to enhance FlowFormer by pretraining the cost-volume encoder with a novel MAE scheme. Firstly, we introduce a block-sharing masking strategy to prevent masked information leakage, as the cost maps of neighboring source pixels are highly correlated. Secondly, we propose a novel pre-text reconstruction task, which encourages the cost-volume encoder to aggregate long-range information and ensures pretraining-finetuning consistency. We also show how to modify the FlowFormer architecture to accommodate masks during pretraining. Pretrained with MCVA, FlowFormer++ ranks 1st among published methods on both Sintel and KITTI-2015 benchmarks. Specifically, FlowFormer++ achieves 1.07 and 1.94 average end-point error (AEPE) on the clean and final pass of Sintel benchmark, leading to 7.76\% and 7.18\% error reductions from FlowFormer. FlowFormer++ obtains 4.52 F1-all on the KITTI-2015 test set, improving FlowFormer by 0.16. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Can ChatGPT Assess Human Personalities? A General Evaluation Framework<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01248<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Large Language Models (LLMs) especially ChatGPT have produced impressive results in various areas, but their potential human-like psychology is still largely unexplored. Existing works study the virtual personalities of LLMs but rarely explore the possibility of analyzing human personalities via LLMs. This paper presents a generic evaluation framework for LLMs to assess human personalities based on Myers Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) tests. Specifically, we first devise unbiased prompts by randomly permuting options in MBTI questions and adopt the average testing result to encourage more impartial answer generation. Then, we propose to replace the subject in question statements to enable flexible queries and assessments on different subjects from LLMs. Finally, we re-formulate the question instructions in a manner of correctness evaluation to facilitate LLMs to generate clearer responses. The proposed framework enables LLMs to flexibly assess personalities of different groups of people. We further propose three evaluation metrics to measure the consistency, robustness, and fairness of assessment results from state-of-the-art LLMs including ChatGPT and InstructGPT. Our experiments reveal ChatGPT's ability to assess human personalities, and the average results demonstrate that it can achieve more consistent and fairer assessments in spite of lower robustness against prompt biases compared with InstructGPT. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Combining Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet:  Heading towards Evolution or Degradation?<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01255<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In the span of a few months, generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools that can generate realistic images or text have taken the Internet by storm, making them one of the technologies with fastest adoption ever. Some of these generative AI tools such as DALL-E, MidJourney, or ChatGPT have gained wide public notoriety. Interestingly, these tools are possible because of the massive amount of data (text and images) available on the Internet. The tools are trained on massive data sets that are scraped from Internet sites. And now, these generative AI tools are creating massive amounts of new data that are being fed into the Internet. Therefore, future versions of generative AI tools will be trained with Internet data that is a mix of original and AI-generated data. As time goes on, a mixture of original data and data generated by different versions of AI tools will populate the Internet. This raises a few intriguing questions: how will future versions of generative AI tools behave when trained on a mixture of real and AI generated data? Will they evolve with the new data sets or degenerate? Will evolution introduce biases in subsequent generations of generative AI tools? In this document, we explore these questions and report some very initial simulation results using a simple image-generation AI tool. These results suggest that the quality of the generated images degrades as more AI-generated data is used for training thus suggesting that generative AI may degenerate. Although these results are preliminary and cannot be generalised without further study, they serve to illustrate the potential issues of the interaction between generative AI and the Internet. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Domain-adapted large language models for classifying nuclear medicine  reports<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01258<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: With the growing use of transformer-based language models in medicine, it is unclear how well these models generalize to nuclear medicine which has domain-specific vocabulary and unique reporting styles. In this study, we evaluated the value of domain adaptation in nuclear medicine by adapting language models for the purpose of 5-point Deauville score prediction based on clinical 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET/CT reports. We retrospectively retrieved 4542 text reports and 1664 images for FDG PET/CT lymphoma exams from 2008-2018 in our clinical imaging database. Deauville scores were removed from the reports and then the remaining text in the reports was used as the model input. Multiple general-purpose transformer language models were used to classify the reports into Deauville scores 1-5. We then adapted the models to the nuclear medicine domain using masked language modeling and assessed its impact on classification performance. The language models were compared against vision models, a multimodal vision language model, and a nuclear medicine physician with seven-fold Monte Carlo cross validation, reported are the mean and standard deviations. Domain adaption improved all language models. For example, BERT improved from 61.3% five-class accuracy to 65.7% following domain adaptation. The best performing model (domain-adapted RoBERTa) achieved a five-class accuracy of 77.4%, which was better than the physician's performance (66%), the best vision model's performance (48.1), and was similar to the multimodal model's performance (77.2). Domain adaptation improved the performance of large language models in interpreting nuclear medicine text reports. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Token Contrast for Weakly-Supervised Semantic Segmentation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01267<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Weakly-Supervised Semantic Segmentation (WSSS) using image-level labels typically utilizes Class Activation Map (CAM) to generate the pseudo labels. Limited by the local structure perception of CNN, CAM usually cannot identify the integral object regions. Though the recent Vision Transformer (ViT) can remedy this flaw, we observe it also brings the over-smoothing issue, \ie, the final patch tokens incline to be uniform. In this work, we propose Token Contrast (ToCo) to address this issue and further explore the virtue of ViT for WSSS. Firstly, motivated by the observation that intermediate layers in ViT can still retain semantic diversity, we designed a Patch Token Contrast module (PTC). PTC supervises the final patch tokens with the pseudo token relations derived from intermediate layers, allowing them to align the semantic regions and thus yield more accurate CAM. Secondly, to further differentiate the low-confidence regions in CAM, we devised a Class Token Contrast module (CTC) inspired by the fact that class tokens in ViT can capture high-level semantics. CTC facilitates the representation consistency between uncertain local regions and global objects by contrasting their class tokens. Experiments on the PASCAL VOC and MS COCO datasets show the proposed ToCo can remarkably surpass other single-stage competitors and achieve comparable performance with state-of-the-art multi-stage methods. Code is available at https://github.com/rulixiang/ToCo. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Creating Synthetic Datasets for Collaborative Filtering Recommender  Systems using Generative Adversarial Networks<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01297<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Research and education in machine learning needs diverse, representative, and open datasets that contain sufficient samples to handle the necessary training, validation, and testing tasks. Currently, the Recommender Systems area includes a large number of subfields in which accuracy and beyond accuracy quality measures are continuously improved. To feed this research variety, it is necessary and convenient to reinforce the existing datasets with synthetic ones. This paper proposes a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)-based method to generate collaborative filtering datasets in a parameterized way, by selecting their preferred number of users, items, samples, and stochastic variability. This parameterization cannot be made using regular GANs. Our GAN model is fed with dense, short, and continuous embedding representations of items and users, instead of sparse, large, and discrete vectors, to make an accurate and quick learning, compared to the traditional approach based on large and sparse input vectors. The proposed architecture includes a DeepMF model to extract the dense user and item embeddings, as well as a clustering process to convert from the dense GAN generated samples to the discrete and sparse ones, necessary to create each required synthetic dataset. The results of three different source datasets show adequate distributions and expected quality values and evolutions on the generated datasets compared to the source ones. Synthetic datasets and source codes are available to researchers. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Learning Language-Conditioned Deformable Object Manipulation with Graph  Dynamics<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01310<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Vision-based deformable object manipulation is a challenging problem in robotic manipulation, requiring a robot to infer a sequence of manipulation actions leading to the desired state from solely visual observations. Most previous works address this problem in a goal-conditioned way and adapt the goal image to specify a task, which is not practical or efficient. Thus, we adapted natural language specification and proposed a language-conditioned deformable object manipulation policy learning framework. We first design a unified Transformer-based architecture to understand multi-modal data and output picking and placing action. Besides, we have introduced the visible connectivity graph to tackle nonlinear dynamics and complex configuration of the deformable object in the manipulation process. Both simulated and real experiments have demonstrated that the proposed method is general and effective in language-conditioned deformable object manipulation policy learning. Our method achieves much higher success rates on various language-conditioned deformable object manipulation tasks (87.3% on average) than the state-of-the-art method in simulation experiments. Besides, our method is much lighter and has a 75.6% shorter inference time than state-of-the-art methods. We also demonstrate that our method performs well in real-world applications. Supplementary videos can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/language-deformable. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Zero-Shot Text-to-Parameter Translation for Game Character Auto-Creation<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01311<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Recent popular Role-Playing Games (RPGs) saw the great success of character auto-creation systems. The bone-driven face model controlled by continuous parameters (like the position of bones) and discrete parameters (like the hairstyles) makes it possible for users to personalize and customize in-game characters. Previous in-game character auto-creation systems are mostly image-driven, where facial parameters are optimized so that the rendered character looks similar to the reference face photo. This paper proposes a novel text-to-parameter translation method (T2P) to achieve zero-shot text-driven game character auto-creation. With our method, users can create a vivid in-game character with arbitrary text description without using any reference photo or editing hundreds of parameters manually. In our method, taking the power of large-scale pre-trained multi-modal CLIP and neural rendering, T2P searches both continuous facial parameters and discrete facial parameters in a unified framework. Due to the discontinuous parameter representation, previous methods have difficulty in effectively learning discrete facial parameters. T2P, to our best knowledge, is the first method that can handle the optimization of both discrete and continuous parameters. Experimental results show that T2P can generate high-quality and vivid game characters with given text prompts. T2P outperforms other SOTA text-to-3D generation methods on both objective evaluations and subjective evaluations. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Weakly-supervised HOI Detection via Prior-guided Bi-level Representation  Learning<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01313<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Human object interaction (HOI) detection plays a crucial role in human-centric scene understanding and serves as a fundamental building-block for many vision tasks. One generalizable and scalable strategy for HOI detection is to use weak supervision, learning from image-level annotations only. This is inherently challenging due to ambiguous human-object associations, large search space of detecting HOIs and highly noisy training signal. A promising strategy to address those challenges is to exploit knowledge from large-scale pretrained models (e.g., CLIP), but a direct knowledge distillation strategy~\citep{liao2022gen} does not perform well on the weakly-supervised setting. In contrast, we develop a CLIP-guided HOI representation capable of incorporating the prior knowledge at both image level and HOI instance level, and adopt a self-taught mechanism to prune incorrect human-object associations. Experimental results on HICO-DET and V-COCO show that our method outperforms the previous works by a sizable margin, showing the efficacy of our HOI representation. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: BEL: A Bag Embedding Loss for Transformer enhances Multiple Instance  Whole Slide Image Classification<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01377<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) has become the predominant approach for classification tasks on gigapixel histopathology whole slide images (WSIs). Within the MIL framework, single WSIs (bags) are decomposed into patches (instances), with only WSI-level annotation available. Recent MIL approaches produce highly informative bag level representations by utilizing the transformer architecture's ability to model the dependencies between instances. However, when applied to high magnification datasets, problems emerge due to the large number of instances and the weak supervisory learning signal. To address this problem, we propose to additionally train transformers with a novel Bag Embedding Loss (BEL). BEL forces the model to learn a discriminative bag-level representation by minimizing the distance between bag embeddings of the same class and maximizing the distance between different classes. We evaluate BEL with the Transformer architecture TransMIL on two publicly available histopathology datasets, BRACS and CAMELYON17. We show that with BEL, TransMIL outperforms the baseline models on both datasets, thus contributing to the clinically highly relevant AI-based tumor classification of histological patient material. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: 3D generation on ImageNet<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01416<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Existing 3D-from-2D generators are typically designed for well-curated single-category datasets, where all the objects have (approximately) the same scale, 3D location, and orientation, and the camera always points to the center of the scene. This makes them inapplicable to diverse, in-the-wild datasets of non-alignable scenes rendered from arbitrary camera poses. In this work, we develop a 3D generator with Generic Priors (3DGP): a 3D synthesis framework with more general assumptions about the training data, and show that it scales to very challenging datasets, like ImageNet. Our model is based on three new ideas. First, we incorporate an inaccurate off-the-shelf depth estimator into 3D GAN training via a special depth adaptation module to handle the imprecision. Then, we create a flexible camera model and a regularization strategy for it to learn its distribution parameters during training. Finally, we extend the recent ideas of transferring knowledge from pre-trained classifiers into GANs for patch-wise trained models by employing a simple distillation-based technique on top of the discriminator. It achieves more stable training than the existing methods and speeds up the convergence by at least 40%. We explore our model on four datasets: SDIP Dogs 256x256, SDIP Elephants 256x256, LSUN Horses 256x256, and ImageNet 256x256, and demonstrate that 3DGP outperforms the recent state-of-the-art in terms of both texture and geometry quality. Code and visualizations: https://snap-research.github.io/3dgp. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Human Motion Diffusion as a Generative Prior<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01418<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In recent months, we witness a leap forward as denoising diffusion models were introduced to Motion Generation. Yet, the main gap in this field remains the low availability of data. Furthermore, the expensive acquisition process of motion biases the already modest data towards short single-person sequences. With such a shortage, more elaborate generative tasks are left behind. In this paper, we show that this gap can be mitigated using a pre-trained diffusion-based model as a generative prior. We demonstrate the prior is effective for fine-tuning, in a few-, and even a zero-shot manner. For the zero-shot setting, we tackle the challenge of long sequence generation. We introduce DoubleTake, an inference-time method with which we demonstrate up to 10-minute long animations of prompted intervals and their meaningful and controlled transition, using the prior that was trained for 10-second generations. For the few-shot setting, we consider two-person generation. Using two fixed priors and as few as a dozen training examples, we learn a slim communication block, ComMDM, to infuse interaction between the two resulting motions. Finally, using fine-tuning, we train the prior to semantically complete motions from a single prescribed joint. Then, we use our DiffusionBlending to blend a few such models into a single one that responds well to the combination of the individual control signals, enabling fine-grained joint- and trajectory-level control and editing. Using an off-the-shelf state-of-the-art (SOTA) motion diffusion model as a prior, we evaluate our approach for the three mentioned cases and show that we consistently outperform SOTA models that were designed and trained for those tasks. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: From Crowd Motion Prediction to Robot Navigation in Crowds<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01424<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: We focus on robot navigation in crowded environments. To navigate safely and efficiently within crowds, robots need models for crowd motion prediction. Building such models is hard due to the high dimensionality of multiagent domains and the challenge of collecting or simulating interaction-rich crowd-robot demonstrations. While there has been important progress on models for offline pedestrian motion forecasting, transferring their performance on real robots is nontrivial due to close interaction settings and novelty effects on users. In this paper, we investigate the utility of a recent state-of-the-art motion prediction model (S-GAN) for crowd navigation tasks. We incorporate this model into a model predictive controller (MPC) and deploy it on a self-balancing robot which we subject to a diverse range of crowd behaviors in the lab. We demonstrate that while S-GAN motion prediction accuracy transfers to the real world, its value is not reflected on navigation performance, measured with respect to safety and efficiency; in fact, the MPC performs indistinguishably even when using a simple constant-velocity prediction model, suggesting that substantial model improvements might be needed to yield significant gains for crowd navigation tasks. Footage from our experiments can be found at https://youtu.be/mzFiXg8KsZ0. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: WiCE: Real-World Entailment for Claims in Wikipedia<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01432<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Models for textual entailment have increasingly been applied to settings like fact-checking, presupposition verification in question answering, and validating that generation models' outputs are faithful to a source. However, such applications are quite far from the settings that existing datasets are constructed in. We propose WiCE, a new textual entailment dataset centered around verifying claims in text, built on real-world claims and evidence in Wikipedia with fine-grained annotations. We collect sentences in Wikipedia that cite one or more webpages and annotate whether the content on those pages entails those sentences. Negative examples arise naturally, from slight misinterpretation of text to minor aspects of the sentence that are not attested in the evidence. Our annotations are over sub-sentence units of the hypothesis, decomposed automatically by GPT-3, each of which is labeled with a subset of evidence sentences from the source document. We show that real claims in our dataset involve challenging verification problems, and we benchmark existing approaches on this dataset. In addition, we show that reducing the complexity of claims by decomposing them by GPT-3 can improve entailment models' performance on various domains. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Consistency Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01469<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Diffusion models have made significant breakthroughs in image, audio, and video generation, but they depend on an iterative generation process that causes slow sampling speed and caps their potential for real-time applications. To overcome this limitation, we propose consistency models, a new family of generative models that achieve high sample quality without adversarial training. They support fast one-step generation by design, while still allowing for few-step sampling to trade compute for sample quality. They also support zero-shot data editing, like image inpainting, colorization, and super-resolution, without requiring explicit training on these tasks. Consistency models can be trained either as a way to distill pre-trained diffusion models, or as standalone generative models. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that they outperform existing distillation techniques for diffusion models in one- and few-step generation. For example, we achieve the new state-of-the-art FID of 3.55 on CIFAR-10 and 6.20 on ImageNet 64x64 for one-step generation. When trained as standalone generative models, consistency models also outperform single-step, non-adversarial generative models on standard benchmarks like CIFAR-10, ImageNet 64x64 and LSUN 256x256. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Generating Initial Conditions for Ensemble Data Assimilation of  Large-Eddy Simulations with Latent Diffusion Models<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00836<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: In order to accurately reconstruct the time history of the atmospheric state, ensemble-based data assimilation algorithms need to be initialized appropriately. At present, there is no standard approach to initializing large-eddy simulation codes for microscale data assimilation. Here, given synthetic observations, we generate ensembles of plausible initial conditions using a latent diffusion model. We modify the original, two-dimensional latent diffusion model code to work on three-dimensional turbulent fields. The algorithm produces realistic and diverse samples that successfully run when inserted into a large-eddy simulation code. The samples have physically plausible turbulent structures on large and moderate spatial scales in the context of our simulations. The generated ensembles show a lower spread in the vicinity of observations while having higher variability further from the observations, matching expected behavior. Ensembles demonstrate near-zero bias relative to ground truth in the vicinity of observations, but rank histogram analysis suggests that ensembles have too little member-to-member variability when compared to an ideal ensemble. Given the success of the latent diffusion model, the generated ensembles will be tested in their ability to recreate a time history of the atmosphere when coupled to an ensemble-based data assimilation algorithm in upcoming work. We find that diffusion models show promise and potential for other applications within the geosciences. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Meta-information-aware Dual-path Transformer for Differential Diagnosis  of Multi-type Pancreatic Lesions in Multi-phase CT<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.00942<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Pancreatic cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related death. Accurate detection, segmentation, and differential diagnosis of the full taxonomy of pancreatic lesions, i.e., normal, seven major types of lesions, and other lesions, is critical to aid the clinical decision-making of patient management and treatment. However, existing works focus on segmentation and classification for very specific lesion types (PDAC) or groups. Moreover, none of the previous work considers using lesion prevalence-related non-imaging patient information to assist the differential diagnosis. To this end, we develop a meta-information-aware dual-path transformer and exploit the feasibility of classification and segmentation of the full taxonomy of pancreatic lesions. Specifically, the proposed method consists of a CNN-based segmentation path (S-path) and a transformer-based classification path (C-path). The S-path focuses on initial feature extraction by semantic segmentation using a UNet-based network. The C-path utilizes both the extracted features and meta-information for patient-level classification based on stacks of dual-path transformer blocks that enhance the modeling of global contextual information. A large-scale multi-phase CT dataset of 3,096 patients with pathology-confirmed pancreatic lesion class labels, voxel-wise manual annotations of lesions from radiologists, and patient meta-information, was collected for training and evaluations. Our results show that our method can enable accurate classification and segmentation of the full taxonomy of pancreatic lesions, approaching the accuracy of the radiologist's report and significantly outperforming previous baselines. Results also show that adding the common meta-information, i.e., gender and age, can boost the model's performance, thus demonstrating the importance of meta-information for aiding pancreatic disease diagnosis. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/><p style="color: black; font-size: 14px; text-align: left; visibility: visible;"><b style="visibility: visible;">Title</b>: Improving Transformer-based End-to-End Speaker Diarization by Assigning  Auxiliary Losses to Attention Heads<br style="visibility: visible;"/><b style="visibility: visible;">PDF</b>: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.01192<br style="visibility: visible;"/></p><section style="margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0.2em; max-width: 100%; box-sizing: border-box; height: 12em; color: rgb(102, 101, 101); font-size: 14px; line-height: 1.3em; overflow: auto; overflow-wrap: break-word !important; background: rgb(240, 240, 240); text-align: left; visibility: visible;">
        <span style="font-size: 12px; visibility: visible;">
        <b style="visibility: visible;">Abstract</b>: Transformer-based end-to-end neural speaker diarization (EEND) models utilize the multi-head self-attention (SA) mechanism to enable accurate speaker label prediction in overlapped speech regions. In this study, to enhance the training effectiveness of SA-EEND models, we propose the use of auxiliary losses for the SA heads of the transformer layers. Specifically, we assume that the attention weight matrices of an SA layer are redundant if their patterns are similar to those of the identity matrix. We then explicitly constrain such matrices to exhibit specific speaker activity patterns relevant to voice activity detection or overlapped speech detection tasks. Consequently, we expect the proposed auxiliary losses to guide the transformer layers to exhibit more diverse patterns in the attention weights, thereby reducing the assumed redundancies in the SA heads. The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated using the simulated and CALLHOME datasets for two-speaker diarization tasks, reducing the diarization error rate of the conventional SA-EEND model by 32.58% and 17.11%, respectively. <br style="visibility: visible;"/></span>
        </section><br style="visibility: visible;"/></body>
        </html>
