**ID:** 1  
**Title:** ChatGPT is not a pocket calculator -- Problems of AI-chatbots for  teaching Geography  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03196  
**Abstract:** The recent success of large language models and AI chatbots such as ChatGPT in various knowledge domains has a severe impact on teaching and learning Geography and GIScience. The underlying revolution is often compared to the introduction of pocket calculators, suggesting analogous adaptations that prioritize higher-level skills over other learning content. However, using ChatGPT can be fraudulent because it threatens the validity of assessments. The success of such a strategy therefore rests on the assumption that lower-level learning goals are substitutable by AI, and supervision and assessments can be refocused on higher-level goals. Based on a preliminary survey on ChatGPT's quality in answering questions in Geography and GIScience, we demonstrate that this assumption might be fairly naive, and effective control in assessments and supervision is required. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Vision Language Transformers: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03254  
**Abstract:** Vision language tasks, such as answering questions about or generating captions that describe an image, are difficult tasks for computers to perform. A relatively recent body of research has adapted the pretrained transformer architecture introduced in \citet{vaswani2017attention} to vision language modeling. Transformer models have greatly improved performance and versatility over previous vision language models. They do so by pretraining models on a large generic datasets and transferring their learning to new tasks with minor changes in architecture and parameter values. This type of transfer learning has become the standard modeling practice in both natural language processing and computer vision. Vision language transformers offer the promise of producing similar advancements in tasks which require both vision and language. In this paper, we provide a broad synthesis of the currently available research on vision language transformer models and offer some analysis of their strengths, limitations and some open questions that remain. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Recovery of Multiple Parameters in Subdiffusion from One Lateral  Boundary Measurement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03263  
**Abstract:** This work is concerned with numerically recovering multiple parameters simultaneously in the subdiffusion model from one single lateral measurement on a part of the boundary, while in an incompletely known medium. We prove that the boundary measurement corresponding to a fairly general boundary excitation uniquely determines the order of the fractional derivative and the polygonal support of the diffusion coefficient, without knowing either the initial condition or the source. The uniqueness analysis further inspires the development of a robust numerical algorithm for recovering the fractional order and diffusion coefficient. The proposed algorithm combines small-time asymptotic expansion, analytic continuation of the solution and the level set method. We present extensive numerical experiments to illustrate the feasibility of the simultaneous recovery. In addition, we discuss the uniqueness of recovering general diffusion and potential coefficients from one single partial boundary measurement, when the boundary excitation is more specialized. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** A Comprehensive Multi-scale Approach for Speech and Dynamics Synchrony  in Talking Head Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03270  
**Abstract:** Animating still face images with deep generative models using a speech input signal is an active research topic and has seen important recent progress. However, much of the effort has been put into lip syncing and rendering quality while the generation of natural head motion, let alone the audio-visual correlation between head motion and speech, has often been neglected. In this work, we propose a multi-scale audio-visual synchrony loss and a multi-scale autoregressive GAN to better handle short and long-term correlation between speech and the dynamics of the head and lips. In particular, we train a stack of syncer models on multimodal input pyramids and use these models as guidance in a multi-scale generator network to produce audio-aligned motion unfolding over diverse time scales. Our generator operates in the facial landmark domain, which is a standard low-dimensional head representation. The experiments show significant improvements over the state of the art in head motion dynamics quality and in multi-scale audio-visual synchrony both in the landmark domain and in the image domain. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** It is not Sexually Suggestive, It is Educative. Separating Sex Education  from Suggestive Content on TikTok Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03274  
**Abstract:** We introduce SexTok, a multi-modal dataset composed of TikTok videos labeled as sexually suggestive (from the annotator's point of view), sex-educational content, or neither. Such a dataset is necessary to address the challenge of distinguishing between sexually suggestive content and virtual sex education videos on TikTok. Children's exposure to sexually suggestive videos has been shown to have adversarial effects on their development. Meanwhile, virtual sex education, especially on subjects that are more relevant to the LGBTQIA+ community, is very valuable. The platform's current system removes or penalizes some of both types of videos, even though they serve different purposes. Our dataset contains video URLs, and it is also audio transcribed. To validate its importance, we explore two transformer-based models for classifying the videos. Our preliminary results suggest that the task of distinguishing between these types of videos is learnable but challenging. These experiments suggest that this dataset is meaningful and invites further study on the subject. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** ACDNet: Attention-guided Collaborative Decision Network for Effective  Medication Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03332  
**Abstract:** Medication recommendation using Electronic Health Records (EHR) is challenging due to complex medical data. Current approaches extract longitudinal information from patient EHR to personalize recommendations. However, existing models often lack sufficient patient representation and overlook the importance of considering the similarity between a patient's medication records and specific medicines. Therefore, an Attention-guided Collaborative Decision Network (ACDNet) for medication recommendation is proposed in this paper. Specifically, ACDNet utilizes attention mechanism and Transformer to effectively capture patient health conditions and medication records by modeling their historical visits at both global and local levels. ACDNet also employs a collaborative decision framework, utilizing the similarity between medication records and medicine representation to facilitate the recommendation process. The experimental results on two extensive medical datasets, MIMIC-III and MIMIC-IV, clearly demonstrate that ACDNet outperforms state-of-the-art models in terms of Jaccard, PR-AUC, and F1 score, reaffirming its superiority. Moreover, the ablation experiments provide solid evidence of the effectiveness of each module in ACDNet, validating their contribution to the overall performance. Furthermore, a detailed case study reinforces the effectiveness of ACDNet in medication recommendation based on EHR data, showcasing its practical value in real-world healthcare scenarios. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Point spread function approximation of high rank Hessians with locally  supported non-negative integral kernels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03349  
**Abstract:** We present an efficient matrix-free point spread function (PSF) method for approximating operators that have locally supported non-negative integral kernels. The method computes impulse responses of the operator at scattered points, and interpolates these impulse responses to approximate integral kernel entries. Impulse responses are computed by applying the operator to Dirac comb batches of point sources, which are chosen by solving an ellipsoid packing problem. Evaluation of kernel entries allows us to construct a hierarchical matrix (H-matrix) approximation of the operator. Further matrix computations are performed with H-matrix methods. We use the method to build preconditioners for the Hessian operator in two inverse problems governed by partial differential equations (PDEs): inversion for the basal friction coefficient in an ice sheet flow problem and for the initial condition in an advective-diffusive transport problem. While for many ill-posed inverse problems the Hessian of the data misfit term exhibits a low rank structure, and hence a low rank approximation is suitable, for many problems of practical interest the numerical rank of the Hessian is still large. But Hessian impulse responses typically become more local as the numerical rank increases, which benefits the PSF method. Numerical results reveal that the PSF preconditioner clusters the spectrum of the preconditioned Hessian near one, yielding roughly 5x-10x reductions in the required number of PDE solves, as compared to regularization preconditioning and no preconditioning. We also present a numerical study for the influence of various parameters (that control the shape of the impulse responses) on the effectiveness of the advection-diffusion Hessian approximation. The results show that the PSF-based preconditioners are able to form good approximations of high-rank Hessians using a small number of operator applications. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Augmented Reality for Maintenance Tasks with ChatGPT for Automated  Text-to-Action  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03351  
**Abstract:** Advancements in sensor technology, artificial intelligence (AI), and augmented reality (AR) have unlocked opportunities across various domains. AR and large language models like GPT have witnessed substantial progress and are increasingly being employed in diverse fields. One such promising application is in operations and maintenance (O&M). O&M tasks often involve complex procedures and sequences that can be challenging to memorize and execute correctly, particularly for novices or under high-stress situations. By marrying the advantages of superimposing virtual objects onto the physical world, and generating human-like text using GPT, we can revolutionize O&M operations. This study introduces a system that combines AR, Optical Character Recognition (OCR), and the GPT language model to optimize user performance while offering trustworthy interactions and alleviating workload in O&M tasks. This system provides an interactive virtual environment controlled by the Unity game engine, facilitating a seamless interaction between virtual and physical realities. A case study (N=15) is conducted to illustrate the findings and answer the research questions. The results indicate that users can complete similarly challenging tasks in less time using our proposed AR and AI system. Moreover, the collected data also suggests a reduction in cognitive load and an increase in trust when executing the same operations using the AR and AI system. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Token-Level Serialized Output Training for Joint Streaming ASR and ST  Leveraging Textual Alignments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03354  
**Abstract:** In real-world applications, users often require both translations and transcriptions of speech to enhance their comprehension, particularly in streaming scenarios where incremental generation is necessary. This paper introduces a streaming Transformer-Transducer that jointly generates automatic speech recognition (ASR) and speech translation (ST) outputs using a single decoder. To produce ASR and ST content effectively with minimal latency, we propose a joint token-level serialized output training method that interleaves source and target words by leveraging an off-the-shelf textual aligner. Experiments in monolingual (it-en) and multilingual (\{de,es,it\}-en) settings demonstrate that our approach achieves the best quality-latency balance. With an average ASR latency of 1s and ST latency of 1.3s, our model shows no degradation or even improves output quality compared to separate ASR and ST models, yielding an average improvement of 1.1 WER and 0.4 BLEU in the multilingual case. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** All in One: Exploring Unified Vision-Language Tracking with Multi-Modal  Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03373  
**Abstract:** Current mainstream vision-language (VL) tracking framework consists of three parts, \ie a visual feature extractor, a language feature extractor, and a fusion model. To pursue better performance, a natural modus operandi for VL tracking is employing customized and heavier unimodal encoders, and multi-modal fusion models. Albeit effective, existing VL trackers separate feature extraction and feature integration, resulting in extracted features that lack semantic guidance and have limited target-aware capability in complex scenarios, \eg similar distractors and extreme illumination. In this work, inspired by the recent success of exploring foundation models with unified architecture for both natural language and computer vision tasks, we propose an All-in-One framework, which learns joint feature extraction and interaction by adopting a unified transformer backbone. Specifically, we mix raw vision and language signals to generate language-injected vision tokens, which we then concatenate before feeding into the unified backbone architecture. This approach achieves feature integration in a unified backbone, removing the need for carefully-designed fusion modules and resulting in a more effective and efficient VL tracking framework. To further improve the learning efficiency, we introduce a multi-modal alignment module based on cross-modal and intra-modal contrastive objectives, providing more reasonable representations for the unified All-in-One transformer backbone. Extensive experiments on five benchmarks, \ie OTB99-L, TNL2K, LaSOT, LaSOT$_{\rm Ext}$ and WebUAV-3M, demonstrate the superiority of the proposed tracker against existing state-of-the-arts on VL tracking. Codes will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Teaching Arithmetic to Small Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03381  
**Abstract:** Large language models like GPT-4 exhibit emergent capabilities across general-purpose tasks, such as basic arithmetic, when trained on extensive text data, even though these tasks are not explicitly encoded by the unsupervised, next-token prediction objective. This study investigates how small transformers, trained from random initialization, can efficiently learn arithmetic operations such as addition, multiplication, and elementary functions like square root, using the next-token prediction objective. We first demonstrate that conventional training data is not the most effective for arithmetic learning, and simple formatting changes can significantly improve accuracy. This leads to sharp phase transitions as a function of training data scale, which, in some cases, can be explained through connections to low-rank matrix completion. Building on prior work, we then train on chain-of-thought style data that includes intermediate step results. Even in the complete absence of pretraining, this approach significantly and simultaneously improves accuracy, sample complexity, and convergence speed. We also study the interplay between arithmetic and text data during training and examine the effects of few-shot prompting, pretraining, and model scale. Additionally, we discuss length generalization challenges. Our work highlights the importance of high-quality, instructive data that considers the particular characteristics of the next-word prediction objective for rapidly eliciting arithmetic capabilities. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** ToxiSpanSE: An Explainable Toxicity Detection in Code Review Comments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03386  
**Abstract:** Background: The existence of toxic conversations in open-source platforms can degrade relationships among software developers and may negatively impact software product quality. To help mitigate this, some initial work has been done to detect toxic comments in the Software Engineering (SE) domain. Aims: Since automatically classifying an entire text as toxic or non-toxic does not help human moderators to understand the specific reason(s) for toxicity, we worked to develop an explainable toxicity detector for the SE domain. Method: Our explainable toxicity detector can detect specific spans of toxic content from SE texts, which can help human moderators by automatically highlighting those spans. This toxic span detection model, ToxiSpanSE, is trained with the 19,651 code review (CR) comments with labeled toxic spans. Our annotators labeled the toxic spans within 3,757 toxic CR samples. We explored several types of models, including one lexicon-based approach and five different transformer-based encoders. Results: After an extensive evaluation of all models, we found that our fine-tuned RoBERTa model achieved the best score with 0.88 $F1$, 0.87 precision, and 0.93 recall for toxic class tokens, providing an explainable toxicity classifier for the SE domain. Conclusion: Since ToxiSpanSE is the first tool to detect toxic spans in the SE domain, this tool will pave a path to combat toxicity in the SE community. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** General-Purpose Multimodal Transformer meets Remote Sensing Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03388  
**Abstract:** The advent of high-resolution multispectral/hyperspectral sensors, LiDAR DSM (Digital Surface Model) information and many others has provided us with an unprecedented wealth of data for Earth Observation. Multimodal AI seeks to exploit those complementary data sources, particularly for complex tasks like semantic segmentation. While specialized architectures have been developed, they are highly complicated via significant effort in model design, and require considerable re-engineering whenever a new modality emerges. Recent trends in general-purpose multimodal networks have shown great potential to achieve state-of-the-art performance across multiple multimodal tasks with one unified architecture. In this work, we investigate the performance of PerceiverIO, one in the general-purpose multimodal family, in the remote sensing semantic segmentation domain. Our experiments reveal that this ostensibly universal network struggles with object scale variation in remote sensing images and fails to detect the presence of cars from a top-down view. To address these issues, even with extreme class imbalance issues, we propose a spatial and volumetric learning component. Specifically, we design a UNet-inspired module that employs 3D convolution to encode vital local information and learn cross-modal features simultaneously, while reducing network computational burden via the cross-attention mechanism of PerceiverIO. The effectiveness of the proposed component is validated through extensive experiments comparing it with other methods such as 2D convolution, and dual local module (\ie the combination of Conv2D 1x1 and Conv2D 3x3 inspired by UNetFormer). The proposed method achieves competitive results with specialized architectures like UNetFormer and SwinUNet, showing its potential to minimize network architecture engineering with a minimal compromise on the performance. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Swin Transformer-Based Dynamic Semantic Communication for Multi-User  with Different Computing Capacity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03402  
**Abstract:** Semantic communication has gained significant attention from researchers as a promising technique to replace conventional communication in the next generation of communication systems, primarily due to its ability to reduce communication costs. However, little literature has studied its effectiveness in multi-user scenarios, particularly when there are variations in the model architectures used by users and their computing capacities. To address this issue, we explore a semantic communication system that caters to multiple users with different model architectures by using a multi-purpose transmitter at the base station (BS). Specifically, the BS in the proposed framework employs semantic and channel encoders to encode the image for transmission, while the receiver utilizes its local channel and semantic decoder to reconstruct the original image. Our joint source-channel encoder at the BS can effectively extract and compress semantic features for specific users by considering the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and computing capacity of the user. Based on the network status, the joint source-channel encoder at the BS can adaptively adjust the length of the transmitted signal. A longer signal ensures more information for high-quality image reconstruction for the user, while a shorter signal helps avoid network congestion. In addition, we propose a hybrid loss function for training, which enhances the perceptual details of reconstructed images. Finally, we conduct a series of extensive evaluations and ablation studies to validate the effectiveness of the proposed system. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Distilling Self-Supervised Vision Transformers for Weakly-Supervised  Few-Shot Classification & Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03407  
**Abstract:** We address the task of weakly-supervised few-shot image classification and segmentation, by leveraging a Vision Transformer (ViT) pretrained with self-supervision. Our proposed method takes token representations from the self-supervised ViT and leverages their correlations, via self-attention, to produce classification and segmentation predictions through separate task heads. Our model is able to effectively learn to perform classification and segmentation in the absence of pixel-level labels during training, using only image-level labels. To do this it uses attention maps, created from tokens generated by the self-supervised ViT backbone, as pixel-level pseudo-labels. We also explore a practical setup with ``mixed" supervision, where a small number of training images contains ground-truth pixel-level labels and the remaining images have only image-level labels. For this mixed setup, we propose to improve the pseudo-labels using a pseudo-label enhancer that was trained using the available ground-truth pixel-level labels. Experiments on Pascal-5i and COCO-20i demonstrate significant performance gains in a variety of supervision settings, and in particular when little-to-no pixel-level labels are available. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Non-iterative Coarse-to-fine Transformer Networks for Joint Affine and  Deformable Image Registration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03421  
**Abstract:** Image registration is a fundamental requirement for medical image analysis. Deep registration methods based on deep learning have been widely recognized for their capabilities to perform fast end-to-end registration. Many deep registration methods achieved state-of-the-art performance by performing coarse-to-fine registration, where multiple registration steps were iterated with cascaded networks. Recently, Non-Iterative Coarse-to-finE (NICE) registration methods have been proposed to perform coarse-to-fine registration in a single network and showed advantages in both registration accuracy and runtime. However, existing NICE registration methods mainly focus on deformable registration, while affine registration, a common prerequisite, is still reliant on time-consuming traditional optimization-based methods or extra affine registration networks. In addition, existing NICE registration methods are limited by the intrinsic locality of convolution operations. Transformers may address this limitation for their capabilities to capture long-range dependency, but the benefits of using transformers for NICE registration have not been explored. In this study, we propose a Non-Iterative Coarse-to-finE Transformer network (NICE-Trans) for image registration. Our NICE-Trans is the first deep registration method that (i) performs joint affine and deformable coarse-to-fine registration within a single network, and (ii) embeds transformers into a NICE registration framework to model long-range relevance between images. Extensive experiments with seven public datasets show that our NICE-Trans outperforms state-of-the-art registration methods on both registration accuracy and runtime. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Registration-Free Hybrid Learning Empowers Simple Multimodal Imaging  System for High-quality Fusion Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03425  
**Abstract:** Multimodal fusion detection always places high demands on the imaging system and image pre-processing, while either a high-quality pre-registration system or image registration processing is costly. Unfortunately, the existing fusion methods are designed for registered source images, and the fusion of inhomogeneous features, which denotes a pair of features at the same spatial location that expresses different semantic information, cannot achieve satisfactory performance via these methods. As a result, we propose IA-VFDnet, a CNN-Transformer hybrid learning framework with a unified high-quality multimodal feature matching module (AKM) and a fusion module (WDAF), in which AKM and DWDAF work in synergy to perform high-quality infrared-aware visible fusion detection, which can be applied to smoke and wildfire detection. Furthermore, experiments on the M3FD dataset validate the superiority of the proposed method, with IA-VFDnet achieving the best detection performance than other state-of-the-art methods under conventional registered conditions. In addition, the first unregistered multimodal smoke and wildfire detection benchmark is openly available in this letter. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** NOFA: NeRF-based One-shot Facial Avatar Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03441  
**Abstract:** 3D facial avatar reconstruction has been a significant research topic in computer graphics and computer vision, where photo-realistic rendering and flexible controls over poses and expressions are necessary for many related applications. Recently, its performance has been greatly improved with the development of neural radiance fields (NeRF). However, most existing NeRF-based facial avatars focus on subject-specific reconstruction and reenactment, requiring multi-shot images containing different views of the specific subject for training, and the learned model cannot generalize to new identities, limiting its further applications. In this work, we propose a one-shot 3D facial avatar reconstruction framework that only requires a single source image to reconstruct a high-fidelity 3D facial avatar. For the challenges of lacking generalization ability and missing multi-view information, we leverage the generative prior of 3D GAN and develop an efficient encoder-decoder network to reconstruct the canonical neural volume of the source image, and further propose a compensation network to complement facial details. To enable fine-grained control over facial dynamics, we propose a deformation field to warp the canonical volume into driven expressions. Through extensive experimental comparisons, we achieve superior synthesis results compared to several state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** ITA: An Energy-Efficient Attention and Softmax Accelerator for Quantized  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03493  
**Abstract:** Transformer networks have emerged as the state-of-the-art approach for natural language processing tasks and are gaining popularity in other domains such as computer vision and audio processing. However, the efficient hardware acceleration of transformer models poses new challenges due to their high arithmetic intensities, large memory requirements, and complex dataflow dependencies. In this work, we propose ITA, a novel accelerator architecture for transformers and related models that targets efficient inference on embedded systems by exploiting 8-bit quantization and an innovative softmax implementation that operates exclusively on integer values. By computing on-the-fly in streaming mode, our softmax implementation minimizes data movement and energy consumption. ITA achieves competitive energy efficiency with respect to state-of-the-art transformer accelerators with 16.9 TOPS/W, while outperforming them in area efficiency with 5.93 TOPS/mm$^2$ in 22 nm fully-depleted silicon-on-insulator technology at 0.8 V. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** HoughLaneNet: Lane Detection with Deep Hough Transform and Dynamic  Convolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03494  
**Abstract:** The task of lane detection has garnered considerable attention in the field of autonomous driving due to its complexity. Lanes can present difficulties for detection, as they can be narrow, fragmented, and often obscured by heavy traffic. However, it has been observed that the lanes have a geometrical structure that resembles a straight line, leading to improved lane detection results when utilizing this characteristic. To address this challenge, we propose a hierarchical Deep Hough Transform (DHT) approach that combines all lane features in an image into the Hough parameter space. Additionally, we refine the point selection method and incorporate a Dynamic Convolution Module to effectively differentiate between lanes in the original image. Our network architecture comprises a backbone network, either a ResNet or Pyramid Vision Transformer, a Feature Pyramid Network as the neck to extract multi-scale features, and a hierarchical DHT-based feature aggregation head to accurately segment each lane. By utilizing the lane features in the Hough parameter space, the network learns dynamic convolution kernel parameters corresponding to each lane, allowing the Dynamic Convolution Module to effectively differentiate between lane features. Subsequently, the lane features are fed into the feature decoder, which predicts the final position of the lane. Our proposed network structure demonstrates improved performance in detecting heavily occluded or worn lane images, as evidenced by our extensive experimental results, which show that our method outperforms or is on par with state-of-the-art techniques. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Language-free Compositional Action Generation via Decoupling Refinement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03538  
**Abstract:** Composing simple elements into complex concepts is crucial yet challenging, especially for 3D action generation. Existing methods largely rely on extensive neural language annotations to discern composable latent semantics, a process that is often costly and labor-intensive. In this study, we introduce a novel framework to generate compositional actions without reliance on language auxiliaries. Our approach consists of three main components: Action Coupling, Conditional Action Generation, and Decoupling Refinement. Action Coupling utilizes an energy model to extract the attention masks of each sub-action, subsequently integrating two actions using these attentions to generate pseudo-training examples. Then, we employ a conditional generative model, CVAE, to learn a latent space, facilitating the diverse generation. Finally, we propose Decoupling Refinement, which leverages a self-supervised pre-trained model MAE to ensure semantic consistency between the sub-actions and compositional actions. This refinement process involves rendering generated 3D actions into 2D space, decoupling these images into two sub-segments, using the MAE model to restore the complete image from sub-segments, and constraining the recovered images to match images rendered from raw sub-actions. Due to the lack of existing datasets containing both sub-actions and compositional actions, we created two new datasets, named HumanAct-C and UESTC-C, and present a corresponding evaluation metric. Both qualitative and quantitative assessments are conducted to show our efficacy. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Large Language Models as Batteries-Included Zero-Shot ESCO Skills  Matchers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03539  
**Abstract:** Understanding labour market dynamics requires accurately identifying the skills required for and possessed by the workforce. Automation techniques are increasingly being developed to support this effort. However, automatically extracting skills from job postings is challenging due to the vast number of existing skills. The ESCO (European Skills, Competences, Qualifications and Occupations) framework provides a useful reference, listing over 13,000 individual skills. However, skills extraction remains difficult and accurately matching job posts to the ESCO taxonomy is an open problem. In this work, we propose an end-to-end zero-shot system for skills extraction from job descriptions based on large language models (LLMs). We generate synthetic training data for the entirety of ESCO skills and train a classifier to extract skill mentions from job posts. We also employ a similarity retriever to generate skill candidates which are then re-ranked using a second LLM. Using synthetic data achieves an RP@10 score 10 points higher than previous distant supervision approaches. Adding GPT-4 re-ranking improves RP@10 by over 22 points over previous methods. We also show that Framing the task as mock programming when prompting the LLM can lead to better performance than natural language prompts, especially with weaker LLMs. We demonstrate the potential of integrating large language models at both ends of skills matching pipelines. Our approach requires no human annotations and achieve extremely promising results on skills extraction against ESCO. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** DWReCO at CheckThat! 2023: Enhancing Subjectivity Detection through  Style-based Data Sampling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03550  
**Abstract:** This paper describes our submission for the subjectivity detection task at the CheckThat! Lab. To tackle class imbalances in the task, we have generated additional training materials with GPT-3 models using prompts of different styles from a subjectivity checklist based on journalistic perspective. We used the extended training set to fine-tune language-specific transformer models. Our experiments in English, German and Turkish demonstrate that different subjective styles are effective across all languages. In addition, we observe that the style-based oversampling is better than paraphrasing in Turkish and English. Lastly, the GPT-3 models sometimes produce lacklustre results when generating style-based texts in non-English languages. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Text Simplification of Scientific Texts for Non-Expert Readers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03569  
**Abstract:** Reading levels are highly individual and can depend on a text's language, a person's cognitive abilities, or knowledge on a topic. Text simplification is the task of rephrasing a text to better cater to the abilities of a specific target reader group. Simplification of scientific abstracts helps non-experts to access the core information by bypassing formulations that require domain or expert knowledge. This is especially relevant for, e.g., cancer patients reading about novel treatment options. The SimpleText lab hosts the simplification of scientific abstracts for non-experts (Task 3) to advance this field. We contribute three runs employing out-of-the-box summarization models (two based on T5, one based on PEGASUS) and one run using ChatGPT with complex phrase identification. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** One Step of Gradient Descent is Provably the Optimal In-Context Learner  with One Layer of Linear Self-Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03576  
**Abstract:** Recent works have empirically analyzed in-context learning and shown that transformers trained on synthetic linear regression tasks can learn to implement ridge regression, which is the Bayes-optimal predictor, given sufficient capacity [Aky\"urek et al., 2023], while one-layer transformers with linear self-attention and no MLP layer will learn to implement one step of gradient descent (GD) on a least-squares linear regression objective [von Oswald et al., 2022]. However, the theory behind these observations remains poorly understood. We theoretically study transformers with a single layer of linear self-attention, trained on synthetic noisy linear regression data. First, we mathematically show that when the covariates are drawn from a standard Gaussian distribution, the one-layer transformer which minimizes the pre-training loss will implement a single step of GD on the least-squares linear regression objective. Then, we find that changing the distribution of the covariates and weight vector to a non-isotropic Gaussian distribution has a strong impact on the learned algorithm: the global minimizer of the pre-training loss now implements a single step of $\textit{pre-conditioned}$ GD. However, if only the distribution of the responses is changed, then this does not have a large effect on the learned algorithm: even when the response comes from a more general family of $\textit{nonlinear}$ functions, the global minimizer of the pre-training loss still implements a single step of GD on a least-squares linear regression objective. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Structure Guided Multi-modal Pre-trained Transformer for Knowledge Graph  Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03591  
**Abstract:** Multimodal knowledge graphs (MKGs), which intuitively organize information in various modalities, can benefit multiple practical downstream tasks, such as recommendation systems, and visual question answering. However, most MKGs are still far from complete, which motivates the flourishing of MKG reasoning models. Recently, with the development of general artificial architectures, the pretrained transformer models have drawn increasing attention, especially for multimodal scenarios. However, the research of multimodal pretrained transformer (MPT) for knowledge graph reasoning (KGR) is still at an early stage. As the biggest difference between MKG and other multimodal data, the rich structural information underlying the MKG still cannot be fully leveraged in existing MPT models. Most of them only utilize the graph structure as a retrieval map for matching images and texts connected with the same entity. This manner hinders their reasoning performances. To this end, we propose the graph Structure Guided Multimodal Pretrained Transformer for knowledge graph reasoning, termed SGMPT. Specifically, the graph structure encoder is adopted for structural feature encoding. Then, a structure-guided fusion module with two different strategies, i.e., weighted summation and alignment constraint, is first designed to inject the structural information into both the textual and visual features. To the best of our knowledge, SGMPT is the first MPT model for multimodal KGR, which mines the structural information underlying the knowledge graph. Extensive experiments on FB15k-237-IMG and WN18-IMG, demonstrate that our SGMPT outperforms existing state-of-the-art models, and prove the effectiveness of the designed strategies. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** GPT4RoI: Instruction Tuning Large Language Model on Region-of-Interest  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03601  
**Abstract:** Instruction tuning large language model (LLM) on image-text pairs has achieved unprecedented vision-language multimodal abilities. However, their vision-language alignments are only built on image-level, the lack of region-level alignment limits their advancements to fine-grained multimodal understanding. In this paper, we propose instruction tuning on region-of-interest. The key design is to reformulate the bounding box as the format of spatial instruction. The interleaved sequences of visual features extracted by the spatial instruction and the language embedding are input to LLM, and trained on the transformed region-text data in instruction tuning format. Our region-level vision-language model, termed as GPT4RoI, brings brand new conversational and interactive experience beyond image-level understanding. (1) Controllability: Users can interact with our model by both language and spatial instructions to flexibly adjust the detail level of the question. (2) Capacities: Our model supports not only single-region spatial instruction but also multi-region. This unlocks more region-level multimodal capacities such as detailed region caption and complex region reasoning. (3) Composition: Any off-the-shelf object detector can be a spatial instruction provider so as to mine informative object attributes from our model, like color, shape, material, action, relation to other objects, etc. The code, data, and demo can be found at https://github.com/jshilong/GPT4RoI. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Simulation-free Schrödinger bridges via score and flow matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03672  
**Abstract:** We present simulation-free score and flow matching ([SF]$^2$M), a simulation-free objective for inferring stochastic dynamics given unpaired source and target samples drawn from arbitrary distributions. Our method generalizes both the score-matching loss used in the training of diffusion models and the recently proposed flow matching loss used in the training of continuous normalizing flows. [SF]$^2$M interprets continuous-time stochastic generative modeling as a Schr\"odinger bridge (SB) problem. It relies on static entropy-regularized optimal transport, or a minibatch approximation, to efficiently learn the SB without simulating the learned stochastic process. We find that [SF]$^2$M is more efficient and gives more accurate solutions to the SB problem than simulation-based methods from prior work. Finally, we apply [SF]$^2$M to the problem of learning cell dynamics from snapshot data. Notably, [SF]$^2$M is the first method to accurately model cell dynamics in high dimensions and can recover known gene regulatory networks from simulated data. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Evaluating the Effectiveness of Large Language Models in Representing  Textual Descriptions of Geometry and Spatial Relations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03678  
**Abstract:** This research focuses on assessing the ability of large language models (LLMs) in representing geometries and their spatial relations. We utilize LLMs including GPT-2 and BERT to encode the well-known text (WKT) format of geometries and then feed their embeddings into classifiers and regressors to evaluate the effectiveness of the LLMs-generated embeddings for geometric attributes. The experiments demonstrate that while the LLMs-generated embeddings can preserve geometry types and capture some spatial relations (up to 73% accuracy), challenges remain in estimating numeric values and retrieving spatially related objects. This research highlights the need for improvement in terms of capturing the nuances and complexities of the underlying geospatial data and integrating domain knowledge to support various GeoAI applications using foundation models. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Comparing Apples to Apples: Generating Aspect-Aware Comparative  Sentences from User Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03691  
**Abstract:** It is time-consuming to find the best product among many similar alternatives. Comparative sentences can help to contrast one item from others in a way that highlights important features of an item that stand out. Given reviews of one or multiple items and relevant item features, we generate comparative review sentences to aid users to find the best fit. Specifically, our model consists of three successive components in a transformer: (i) an item encoding module to encode an item for comparison, (ii) a comparison generation module that generates comparative sentences in an autoregressive manner, (iii) a novel decoding method for user personalization. We show that our pipeline generates fluent and diverse comparative sentences. We run experiments on the relevance and fidelity of our generated sentences in a human evaluation study and find that our algorithm creates comparative review sentences that are relevant and truthful. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Unveiling the Potential of Knowledge-Prompted ChatGPT for Enhancing Drug  Trafficking Detection on Social Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03699  
**Abstract:** Social media platforms such as Instagram and Twitter have emerged as critical channels for drug marketing and illegal sale. Detecting and labeling online illicit drug trafficking activities becomes important in addressing this issue. However, the effectiveness of conventional supervised learning methods in detecting drug trafficking heavily relies on having access to substantial amounts of labeled data, while data annotation is time-consuming and resource-intensive. Furthermore, these models often face challenges in accurately identifying trafficking activities when drug dealers use deceptive language and euphemisms to avoid detection. To overcome this limitation, we conduct the first systematic study on leveraging large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, to detect illicit drug trafficking activities on social media. We propose an analytical framework to compose \emph{knowledge-informed prompts}, which serve as the interface that humans can interact with and use LLMs to perform the detection task. Additionally, we design a Monte Carlo dropout based prompt optimization method to further to improve performance and interpretability. Our experimental findings demonstrate that the proposed framework outperforms other baseline language models in terms of drug trafficking detection accuracy, showing a remarkable improvement of nearly 12\%. By integrating prior knowledge and the proposed prompts, ChatGPT can effectively identify and label drug trafficking activities on social networks, even in the presence of deceptive language and euphemisms used by drug dealers to evade detection. The implications of our research extend to social networks, emphasizing the importance of incorporating prior knowledge and scenario-based prompts into analytical tools to improve online security and public safety. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Hyperspectral and Multispectral Image Fusion Using the Conditional  Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03423  
**Abstract:** Hyperspectral images (HSI) have a large amount of spectral information reflecting the characteristics of matter, while their spatial resolution is low due to the limitations of imaging technology. Complementary to this are multispectral images (MSI), e.g., RGB images, with high spatial resolution but insufficient spectral bands. Hyperspectral and multispectral image fusion is a technique for acquiring ideal images that have both high spatial and high spectral resolution cost-effectively. Many existing HSI and MSI fusion algorithms rely on known imaging degradation models, which are often not available in practice. In this paper, we propose a deep fusion method based on the conditional denoising diffusion probabilistic model, called DDPM-Fus. Specifically, the DDPM-Fus contains the forward diffusion process which gradually adds Gaussian noise to the high spatial resolution HSI (HrHSI) and another reverse denoising process which learns to predict the desired HrHSI from its noisy version conditioning on the corresponding high spatial resolution MSI (HrMSI) and low spatial resolution HSI (LrHSI). Once the training is completes, the proposed DDPM-Fus implements the reverse process on the test HrMSI and LrHSI to generate the fused HrHSI. Experiments conducted on one indoor and two remote sensing datasets show the superiority of the proposed model when compared with other advanced deep learningbased fusion methods. The codes of this work will be opensourced at this address: https://github.com/shuaikaishi/DDPMFus for reproducibility. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Merging-Diverging Hybrid Transformer Networks for Survival Prediction in  Head and Neck Cancer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03427  
**Abstract:** Survival prediction is crucial for cancer patients as it provides early prognostic information for treatment planning. Recently, deep survival models based on deep learning and medical images have shown promising performance for survival prediction. However, existing deep survival models are not well developed in utilizing multi-modality images (e.g., PET-CT) and in extracting region-specific information (e.g., the prognostic information in Primary Tumor (PT) and Metastatic Lymph Node (MLN) regions). In view of this, we propose a merging-diverging learning framework for survival prediction from multi-modality images. This framework has a merging encoder to fuse multi-modality information and a diverging decoder to extract region-specific information. In the merging encoder, we propose a Hybrid Parallel Cross-Attention (HPCA) block to effectively fuse multi-modality features via parallel convolutional layers and cross-attention transformers. In the diverging decoder, we propose a Region-specific Attention Gate (RAG) block to screen out the features related to lesion regions. Our framework is demonstrated on survival prediction from PET-CT images in Head and Neck (H&N) cancer, by designing an X-shape merging-diverging hybrid transformer network (named XSurv). Our XSurv combines the complementary information in PET and CT images and extracts the region-specific prognostic information in PT and MLN regions. Extensive experiments on the public dataset of HEad and neCK TumOR segmentation and outcome prediction challenge (HECKTOR 2022) demonstrate that our XSurv outperforms state-of-the-art survival prediction methods. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Bilateral boundary control of an input delayed 2-D reaction-diffusion  equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.03727  
**Abstract:** In this paper, a delay compensation design method based on PDE backstepping is developed for a two-dimensional reaction-diffusion partial differential equation (PDE) with bilateral input delays. The PDE is defined in a rectangular domain, and the bilateral control is imposed on a pair of opposite sides of the rectangle. To represent the delayed bilateral inputs, we introduce two 2-D transport PDEs that form a cascade system with the original PDE. A novel set of backstepping transformations is proposed for delay compensator design, including one Volterra integral transformation and two affine Volterra integral transformations. Unlike the kernel equation for 1-D PDE systems with delayed boundary input, the resulting kernel equations for the 2-D system have singular initial conditions governed by the Dirac Delta function. Consequently, the kernel solutions are written as a double trigonometric series with singularities. To address the challenge of stability analysis posed by the singularities, we prove a set of inequalities by using the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, the 2-D Fourier series, and the Parseval's theorem. A numerical simulation illustrates the effectiveness of the proposed delay-compensation method. 

