**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Prototyping Theories with ChatGPT: Experiment with the Technology  Acceptance Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05488  
**Abstract:** This research paper presents the findings of two experimental studies that explore the use of ChatGPT as a tool for theory prototyping. The objective of the studies is to assess ChatGPT's ability to comprehend theoretical concepts and differentiate between constructs. During the experiments, duplicated responses were identified in both Study 1 and Study 2, with duplicate response rates of 26.25% and 40% respectively. The results of the experiments indicate that ChatGPT can generate responses aligned with the constructs of the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM). The loading and reliability coefficients demonstrate the validity of the models, with Study 1 achieving an R-squared value of 82% and Study 2 achieving 71%. In Study 2, two items with negative wording exhibited low loadings and were subsequently removed from the model. Both studies exhibit reasonable discriminant validity despite high correlations among the TAM constructs. The experiments reveal potential biases in the generated samples, particularly regarding gender and usage experiences. These biases may impact the responses of constructs and should be considered when interpreting ChatGPT's conceptual capabilities. In sum, ChatGPT shows promise as a tool for theory prototyping, generating relevant responses aligned with theoretical constructs. However, further investigation is needed to address limitations such as duplicated responses, variations in prompts, and the generalizability of findings to different contexts. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** GPT4 is Slightly Helpful for Peer-Review Assistance: A Pilot Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05492  
**Abstract:** In this pilot study, we investigate the use of GPT4 to assist in the peer-review process. Our key hypothesis was that GPT-generated reviews could achieve comparable helpfulness to human reviewers. By comparing reviews generated by both human reviewers and GPT models for academic papers submitted to a major machine learning conference, we provide initial evidence that artificial intelligence can contribute effectively to the peer-review process. We also perform robustness experiments with inserted errors to understand which parts of the paper the model tends to focus on. Our findings open new avenues for leveraging machine learning tools to address resource constraints in peer review. The results also shed light on potential enhancements to the review process and lay the groundwork for further research on scaling oversight in a domain where human-feedback is increasingly a scarce resource. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Cases of EFL Secondary Students' Prompt Engineering Pathways to Complete  a Writing Task with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05493  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT is a state-of-the-art (SOTA) chatbot. Although it has potential to support English as a foreign language (EFL) students' writing, to effectively collaborate with it, a student must learn to engineer prompts, that is, the skill of crafting appropriate instructions so that ChatGPT produces desired outputs. However, writing an appropriate prompt for ChatGPT is not straightforward for non-technical users who suffer a trial-and-error process. This paper examines the content of EFL students' ChatGPT prompts when completing a writing task and explores patterns in the quality and quantity of the prompts. The data come from iPad screen recordings of secondary school EFL students who used ChatGPT and other SOTA chatbots for the first time to complete the same writing task. The paper presents a case study of four distinct pathways that illustrate the trial-and-error process and show different combinations of prompt content and quantity. The cases contribute evidence for the need to provide prompt engineering education in the context of the EFL writing classroom, if students are to move beyond an individual trial-and-error process, learning a greater variety of prompt content and more sophisticated prompts to support their writing. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Opening up ChatGPT: Tracking openness, transparency, and accountability  in instruction-tuned text generators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05532  
**Abstract:** Large language models that exhibit instruction-following behaviour represent one of the biggest recent upheavals in conversational interfaces, a trend in large part fuelled by the release of OpenAI's ChatGPT, a proprietary large language model for text generation fine-tuned through reinforcement learning from human feedback (LLM+RLHF). We review the risks of relying on proprietary software and survey the first crop of open-source projects of comparable architecture and functionality. The main contribution of this paper is to show that openness is differentiated, and to offer scientific documentation of degrees of openness in this fast-moving field. We evaluate projects in terms of openness of code, training data, model weights, RLHF data, licensing, scientific documentation, and access methods. We find that while there is a fast-growing list of projects billing themselves as 'open source', many inherit undocumented data of dubious legality, few share the all-important instruction-tuning (a key site where human annotation labour is involved), and careful scientific documentation is exceedingly rare. Degrees of openness are relevant to fairness and accountability at all points, from data collection and curation to model architecture, and from training and fine-tuning to release and deployment. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** NLP Meets RNA: Unsupervised Embedding Learning for Ribozymes with  Word2Vec  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05537  
**Abstract:** Ribozymes, RNA molecules with distinct 3D structures and catalytic activity, have widespread applications in synthetic biology and therapeutics. However, relatively little research has focused on leveraging deep learning to enhance our understanding of ribozymes. This study implements Word2Vec, an unsupervised learning technique for natural language processing, to learn ribozyme embeddings. Ribo2Vec was trained on over 9,000 diverse ribozymes, learning to map sequences to 128 and 256-dimensional vector spaces. Using Ribo2Vec, sequence embeddings for five classes of ribozymes (hatchet, pistol, hairpin, hovlinc, and twister sister) were calculated. Principal component analysis demonstrated the ability of these embeddings to distinguish between ribozyme classes. Furthermore, a simple SVM classifier trained on ribozyme embeddings showed promising results in accurately classifying ribozyme types. Our results suggest that the embedding vectors contained meaningful information about ribozymes. Interestingly, 256-dimensional embeddings behaved similarly to 128-dimensional embeddings, suggesting that a lower dimension vector space is generally sufficient to capture ribozyme features. This approach demonstrates the potential of Word2Vec for bioinformatics, opening new avenues for ribozyme research. Future research includes using a Transformer-based method to learn RNA embeddings, which can capture long-range interactions between nucleotides. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** TransPose: A Transformer-based 6D Object Pose Estimation Network with  Depth Refinement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05561  
**Abstract:** As demand for robotics manipulation application increases, accurate vision-based 6D pose estimation becomes essential for autonomous operations. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) based approaches for pose estimation have been previously introduced. However, the quest for better performance still persists especially for accurate robotics manipulation. This quest extends to the Agri-robotics domain. In this paper, we propose TransPose, an improved Transformer-based 6D pose estimation with a depth refinement module. The architecture takes in only an RGB image as input with no additional supplementing modalities such as depth or thermal images. The architecture encompasses an innovative lighter depth estimation network that estimates depth from an RGB image using feature pyramid with an up-sampling method. A transformer-based detection network with additional prediction heads is proposed to directly regress the object's centre and predict the 6D pose of the target. A novel depth refinement module is then used alongside the predicted centers, 6D poses and depth patches to refine the accuracy of the estimated 6D pose. We extensively compared our results with other state-of-the-art methods and analysed our results for fruit-picking applications. The results we achieved show that our proposed technique outperforms the other methods available in the literature. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Augmenters at SemEval-2023 Task 1: Enhancing CLIP in Handling  Compositionality and Ambiguity for Zero-Shot Visual WSD through Prompt  Augmentation and Text-To-Image Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05564  
**Abstract:** This paper describes our zero-shot approaches for the Visual Word Sense Disambiguation (VWSD) Task in English. Our preliminary study shows that the simple approach of matching candidate images with the phrase using CLIP suffers from the many-to-many nature of image-text pairs. We find that the CLIP text encoder may have limited abilities in capturing the compositionality in natural language. Conversely, the descriptive focus of the phrase varies from instance to instance. We address these issues in our two systems, Augment-CLIP and Stable Diffusion Sampling (SD Sampling). Augment-CLIP augments the text prompt by generating sentences that contain the context phrase with the help of large language models (LLMs). We further explore CLIP models in other languages, as the an ambiguous word may be translated into an unambiguous one in the other language. SD Sampling uses text-to-image Stable Diffusion to generate multiple images from the given phrase, increasing the likelihood that a subset of images match the one that paired with the text. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Some Preliminary Steps Towards Metaverse Logic  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05574  
**Abstract:** Assuming that the term 'metaverse' could be understood as a computer-based implementation of multiverse applications, we started to look in the present work for a logic that would be powerful enough to handle the situations arising both in the real and in the fictional underlying application domains. Realizing that first-order logic fails to account for the unstable behavior of even the most simpleminded information system domains, we resorted to non-conventional extensions, in an attempt to sketch a minimal composite logic strategy. The discussion was kept at a rather informal level, always trying to convey the intuition behind the theoretical notions in natural language terms, and appealing to an AI agent, namely ChatGPT, in the hope that algorithmic and common-sense approaches can be usefully combined. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** A Novel Approach to Identify Security Controls in Source Code  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05605  
**Abstract:** Secure by Design has become the mainstream development approach ensuring that software systems are not vulnerable to cyberattacks. Architectural security controls need to be carefully monitored over the software development life cycle to avoid critical design flaws. Unfortunately, functional requirements usually get in the way of the security features, and the development team may not correctly address critical security requirements. Identifying tactic-related code pieces in a software project enables an efficient review of the security controls' implementation as well as a resilient software architecture. This paper enumerates a comprehensive list of commonly used security controls and creates a dataset for each one of them by pulling related and unrelated code snippets from the open API of the StackOverflow question and answer platform. It uses the state-of-the-art NLP technique Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) and the Tactic Detector from our prior work to show that code pieces that implement security controls could be identified with high confidence. The results show that our model trained on tactic-related and unrelated code snippets derived from StackOverflow is able to identify tactic-related code pieces with F-Measure values above 0.9. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Substance or Style: What Does Your Image Embedding Know?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05610  
**Abstract:** Probes are small networks that predict properties of underlying data from embeddings, and they provide a targeted, effective way to illuminate the information contained in embeddings. While analysis through the use of probes has become standard in NLP, there has been much less exploration in vision. Image foundation models have primarily been evaluated for semantic content. Better understanding the non-semantic information in popular embeddings (e.g., MAE, SimCLR, or CLIP) will shed new light both on the training algorithms and on the uses for these foundation models. We design a systematic transformation prediction task and measure the visual content of embeddings along many axes, including image style, quality, and a range of natural and artificial transformations. Surprisingly, six embeddings (including SimCLR) encode enough non-semantic information to identify dozens of transformations. We also consider a generalization task, where we group similar transformations and hold out several for testing. We find that image-text models (CLIP and ALIGN) are better at recognizing new examples of style transfer than masking-based models (CAN and MAE). Overall, our results suggest that the choice of pre-training algorithm impacts the types of information in the embedding, and certain models are better than others for non-semantic downstream tasks. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Image Reconstruction using Enhanced Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05616  
**Abstract:** Removing noise from images is a challenging and fundamental problem in the field of computer vision. Images captured by modern cameras are inevitably degraded by noise which limits the accuracy of any quantitative measurements on those images. In this project, we propose a novel image reconstruction framework which can be used for tasks such as image denoising, deblurring or inpainting. The model proposed in this project is based on Vision Transformer (ViT) that takes 2D images as input and outputs embeddings which can be used for reconstructing denoised images. We incorporate four additional optimization techniques in the framework to improve the model reconstruction capability, namely Locality Sensitive Attention (LSA), Shifted Patch Tokenization (SPT), Rotary Position Embeddings (RoPE) and adversarial loss function inspired from Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). LSA, SPT and RoPE enable the transformer to learn from the dataset more efficiently, while the adversarial loss function enhances the resolution of the reconstructed images. Based on our experiments, the proposed architecture outperforms the benchmark U-Net model by more than 3.5\% structural similarity (SSIM) for the reconstruction tasks of image denoising and inpainting. The proposed enhancements further show an improvement of \textasciitilde5\% SSIM over the benchmark for both tasks. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Separate-and-Aggregate: A Transformer-based Patch Refinement Model for  Knowledge Graph Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05627  
**Abstract:** Knowledge graph completion (KGC) is the task of inferencing missing facts from any given knowledge graphs (KG). Previous KGC methods typically represent knowledge graph entities and relations as trainable continuous embeddings and fuse the embeddings of the entity $h$ (or $t$) and relation $r$ into hidden representations of query $(h, r, ?)$ (or $(?, r, t$)) to approximate the missing entities. To achieve this, they either use shallow linear transformations or deep convolutional modules. However, the linear transformations suffer from the expressiveness issue while the deep convolutional modules introduce unnecessary inductive bias, which could potentially degrade the model performance. Thus, we propose a novel Transformer-based Patch Refinement Model (PatReFormer) for KGC. PatReFormer first segments the embedding into a sequence of patches and then employs cross-attention modules to allow bi-directional embedding feature interaction between the entities and relations, leading to a better understanding of the underlying KG. We conduct experiments on four popular KGC benchmarks, WN18RR, FB15k-237, YAGO37 and DB100K. The experimental results show significant performance improvement from existing KGC methods on standard KGC evaluation metrics, e.g., MRR and H@n. Our analysis first verifies the effectiveness of our model design choices in PatReFormer. We then find that PatReFormer can better capture KG information from a large relation embedding dimension. Finally, we demonstrate that the strength of PatReFormer is at complex relation types, compared to other KGC models 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Multiobjective Hydropower Reservoir Operation Optimization with  Transformer-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05643  
**Abstract:** Due to shortage of water resources and increasing water demands, the joint operation of multireservoir systems for balancing power generation, ecological protection, and the residential water supply has become a critical issue in hydropower management. However, the numerous constraints and nonlinearity of multiple reservoirs make solving this problem time-consuming. To address this challenge, a deep reinforcement learning approach that incorporates a transformer framework is proposed. The multihead attention mechanism of the encoder effectively extracts information from reservoirs and residential areas, and the multireservoir attention network of the decoder generates suitable operational decisions. The proposed method is applied to Lake Mead and Lake Powell in the Colorado River Basin. The experimental results demonstrate that the transformer-based deep reinforcement learning approach can produce appropriate operational outcomes. Compared to a state-of-the-art method, the operation strategies produced by the proposed approach generate 10.11% more electricity, reduce the amended annual proportional flow deviation by 39.69%, and increase water supply revenue by 4.10%. Consequently, the proposed approach offers an effective method for the multiobjective operation of multihydropower reservoir systems. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Stack More Layers Differently: High-Rank Training Through Low-Rank  Updates  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05695  
**Abstract:** Despite the dominance and effectiveness of scaling, resulting in large networks with hundreds of billions of parameters, the necessity to train overparametrized models remains poorly understood, and alternative approaches do not necessarily make it cheaper to train high-performance models. In this paper, we explore low-rank training techniques as an alternative approach to training large neural networks. We introduce a novel method called ReLoRA, which utilizes low-rank updates to train high-rank networks. We apply ReLoRA to pre-training transformer language models with up to 350M parameters and demonstrate comparable performance to regular neural network training. Furthermore, we observe that the efficiency of ReLoRA increases with model size, making it a promising approach for training multi-billion-parameter networks efficiently. Our findings shed light on the potential of low-rank training techniques and their implications for scaling laws. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** MoP-CLIP: A Mixture of Prompt-Tuned CLIP Models for Domain Incremental  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05707  
**Abstract:** Despite the recent progress in incremental learning, addressing catastrophic forgetting under distributional drift is still an open and important problem. Indeed, while state-of-the-art domain incremental learning (DIL) methods perform satisfactorily within known domains, their performance largely degrades in the presence of novel domains. This limitation hampers their generalizability, and restricts their scalability to more realistic settings where train and test data are drawn from different distributions. To address these limitations, we present a novel DIL approach based on a mixture of prompt-tuned CLIP models (MoP-CLIP), which generalizes the paradigm of S-Prompting to handle both in-distribution and out-of-distribution data at inference. In particular, at the training stage we model the features distribution of every class in each domain, learning individual text and visual prompts to adapt to a given domain. At inference, the learned distributions allow us to identify whether a given test sample belongs to a known domain, selecting the correct prompt for the classification task, or from an unseen domain, leveraging a mixture of the prompt-tuned CLIP models. Our empirical evaluation reveals the poor performance of existing DIL methods under domain shift, and suggests that the proposed MoP-CLIP performs competitively in the standard DIL settings while outperforming state-of-the-art methods in OOD scenarios. These results demonstrate the superiority of MoP-CLIP, offering a robust and general solution to the problem of domain incremental learning. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05782  
**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence is making spectacular progress, and one of the best examples is the development of large language models (LLMs) such as OpenAI's GPT series. In these lectures, written for readers with a background in mathematics or physics, we give a brief history and survey of the state of the art, and describe the underlying transformer architecture in detail. We then explore some current ideas on how LLMs work and how models trained to predict the next word in a text are able to perform other tasks displaying intelligence. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Merging multiple input descriptors and supervisors in a deep neural  network for tractogram filtering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05786  
**Abstract:** One of the main issues of the current tractography methods is their high false-positive rate. Tractogram filtering is an option to remove false-positive streamlines from tractography data in a post-processing step. In this paper, we train a deep neural network for filtering tractography data in which every streamline of a tractogram is classified as {\em plausible, implausible}, or {\em inconclusive}. For this, we use four different tractogram filtering strategies as supervisors: TractQuerier, RecobundlesX, TractSeg, and an anatomy-inspired filter. Their outputs are combined to obtain the classification labels for the streamlines. We assessed the importance of different types of information along the streamlines for performing this classification task, including the coordinates of the streamlines, diffusion data, landmarks, T1-weighted information, and a brain parcellation. We found that the streamline coordinates are the most relevant followed by the diffusion data in this particular classification task. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Excitements and Concerns in the Post-ChatGPT Era: Deciphering Public  Perception of AI through Social Media Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05809  
**Abstract:** As AI systems become increasingly prevalent in various aspects of daily life, gaining a comprehensive understanding of public perception towards these AI systems has become increasingly essential for several reasons such as ethical considerations, user experience, fear, disinformation, regulation, collaboration, and co-creation. In this study, we investigate how mass social media users perceive the recent rise of AI frameworks such as ChatGPT. We collect a total of 33,912 comments in 388 unique subreddits spanning from November 30, 2022 to June 8, 2023 using a list of AI-related keywords. We employ BERTopic to uncover the major themes regarding AI on Reddit. Additionally, we seek to gain deeper insights into public opinion by examining the distribution of topics across different subreddits. We observe that technology-related subreddits predominantly focus on the technical aspects of AI models. On the other hand, non-tech subreddits show greater interest in social issues such as concerns about job replacement or furlough. We leverage zero-shot prompting to analyze the sentiment and perception of AI among individual users. Through a comprehensive sentiment and emotion analysis, we discover that tech-centric communities exhibit greater polarization compared to non-tech communities when discussing AI topics. This research contributes to our broader understanding of public opinion surrounding artificial intelligence. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** PIGEON: Predicting Image Geolocations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05845  
**Abstract:** We introduce PIGEON, a multi-task end-to-end system for planet-scale image geolocalization that achieves state-of-the-art performance on both external benchmarks and in human evaluation. Our work incorporates semantic geocell creation with label smoothing, conducts pretraining of a vision transformer on images with geographic information, and refines location predictions with ProtoNets across a candidate set of geocells. The contributions of PIGEON are three-fold: first, we design a semantic geocells creation and splitting algorithm based on open-source data which can be adapted to any geospatial dataset. Second, we show the effectiveness of intra-geocell refinement and the applicability of unsupervised clustering and ProtNets to the task. Finally, we make our pre-trained CLIP transformer model, StreetCLIP, publicly available for use in adjacent domains with applications to fighting climate change and urban and rural scene understanding. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Multi-Object Tracking as Attention Mechanism  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05874  
**Abstract:** We propose a conceptually simple and thus fast multi-object tracking (MOT) model that does not require any attached modules, such as the Kalman filter, Hungarian algorithm, transformer blocks, or graph networks. Conventional MOT models are built upon the multi-step modules listed above, and thus the computational cost is high. Our proposed end-to-end MOT model, \textit{TicrossNet}, is composed of a base detector and a cross-attention module only. As a result, the overhead of tracking does not increase significantly even when the number of instances ($N_t$) increases. We show that TicrossNet runs \textit{in real-time}; specifically, it achieves 32.6 FPS on MOT17 and 31.0 FPS on MOT20 (Tesla V100), which includes as many as $>$100 instances per frame. We also demonstrate that TicrossNet is robust to $N_t$; thus, it does not have to change the size of the base detector, depending on $N_t$, as is often done by other models for real-time processing. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** DiffuseGAE: Controllable and High-fidelity Image Manipulation from  Disentangled Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05899  
**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) have shown remarkable results on various image synthesis tasks such as text-to-image generation and image inpainting. However, compared to other generative methods like VAEs and GANs, DPMs lack a low-dimensional, interpretable, and well-decoupled latent code. Recently, diffusion autoencoders (Diff-AE) were proposed to explore the potential of DPMs for representation learning via autoencoding. Diff-AE provides an accessible latent space that exhibits remarkable interpretability, allowing us to manipulate image attributes based on latent codes from the space. However, previous works are not generic as they only operated on a few limited attributes. To further explore the latent space of Diff-AE and achieve a generic editing pipeline, we proposed a module called Group-supervised AutoEncoder(dubbed GAE) for Diff-AE to achieve better disentanglement on the latent code. Our proposed GAE has trained via an attribute-swap strategy to acquire the latent codes for multi-attribute image manipulation based on examples. We empirically demonstrate that our method enables multiple-attributes manipulation and achieves convincing sample quality and attribute alignments, while significantly reducing computational requirements compared to pixel-based approaches for representational decoupling. Code will be released soon. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Exploring the Sector-Specific Influence and Response of AI Tools: A  Critical Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05909  
**Abstract:** AI Tool is designed to generate human-like responses in natural language conversations. Using deep learning techniques, AI Tool has been trained on a diverse range of internet text to understand and generate coherent responses to a wide array of prompts and questions. It can provide information, engage in conversations, assist with tasks, and even offer creative suggestions. The underlying technology behind AI Tool is a transformer neural network. Transformers excel at capturing long-range dependencies in text, making them well-suited for language-related tasks. AI Tool, has 175 billion parameters, making it one of the largest and most powerful language models to date. AI Tool has been trained on a massive corpus of text from the internet, which allows it to leverage a broad understanding of language, general knowledge, and various domains. While AI Tool aims to provide accurate and helpful responses, it may occasionally produce incorrect or nonsensical answers. It's essential to critically evaluate the information it provides and verify it from reliable sources when necessary. This work presents an overview on AI Tool. It will helps to research community and others users to understand the uses of AI Tool and its interaction pattern. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Prompt Generate Train (PGT): A framework for few-shot domain adaptation,  alignment, and uncertainty calibration of a retriever augmented generation  (RAG) model for domain specific open book question-answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05915  
**Abstract:** We present a framework - Prompt, Generate, Train (PGT) - to efficiently develop a generative question-answering model for open-book question-answering over a proprietary collection of text documents. The framework adapts a retriever augmented generation model to the target domain using supervised finetuning and reinforcement learning with synthetic feedback in a few-shot setting. This yields an aligned, uncertainty calibrated model that is competitive with GPT-4 based in-context retrieval augmented generation in generating relevant answers at lower serving costs. The synthetic generation pipeline generates high quality synthetic training data musing a medium sized LLM, Flan-T5 XXL, and a novel consistency filtering scheme. The pipeline is designed to generate both abstractive and extractive questions that span the entire corpus. Using samples from this dataset, the framework fine-tunes a smaller RAG model comprising a dense retriever and a smaller sized LLM on samples from the dataset. In parallel, the framework trains a Reward model to score domain grounded answers higher than hallucinated answers. In the next phase, the framework aligns to the RAG model with the target domain using reinforcement learning. This step improves the RAG model's ability to generate grounded answers and ignore out of domain questions. In the final phase, the framework calibrates the model uncertainty for extractive question-answers. This is a desirable feature since the model can be integrated into a cascading system where the RAG model's answer is surfaced only when the model is confident of its answer. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** SwiFT: Swin 4D fMRI Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05916  
**Abstract:** The modeling of spatiotemporal brain dynamics from high-dimensional data, such as 4D functional MRI, is a formidable task in neuroscience. To address this challenge, we present SwiFT (Swin 4D fMRI Transformer), a Swin Transformer architecture that can learn brain dynamics directly from 4D functional brain MRI data in a memory and computation-efficient manner. SwiFT achieves this by implementing a 4D window multi-head self-attention mechanism and absolute positional embeddings. We evaluate SwiFT using multiple largest-scale human functional brain imaging datasets in tasks such as predicting sex, age, and cognitive intelligence. Our experimental outcomes reveal that SwiFT consistently outperforms recent state-of-the-art models. To the best of our knowledge, SwiFT is the first Swin Transformer architecture that can process dimensional spatiotemporal brain functional data in an end-to-end fashion. Furthermore, due to the end-to-end learning capability, we also show that contrastive loss-based self-supervised pre-training of SwiFT is also feasible for achieving improved performance on a downstream task. We believe that our work holds substantial potential in facilitating scalable learning of functional brain imaging in neuroscience research by reducing the hurdles associated with applying Transformer models to high-dimensional fMRI. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Self-Distilled Quantization: Achieving High Compression Rates in  Transformer-Based Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05972  
**Abstract:** We investigate the effects of post-training quantization and quantization-aware training on the generalization of Transformer language models. We present a new method called self-distilled quantization (SDQ) that minimizes accumulative quantization errors and outperforms baselines. We apply SDQ to multilingual models XLM-R-Base and InfoXLM-Base and demonstrate that both models can be reduced from 32-bit floating point weights to 8-bit integer weights while maintaining a high level of performance on the XGLUE benchmark. Our results also highlight the challenges of quantizing multilingual models, which must generalize to languages they were not fine-tuned on. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Towards Safe Self-Distillation of Internet-Scale Text-to-Image Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05977  
**Abstract:** Large-scale image generation models, with impressive quality made possible by the vast amount of data available on the Internet, raise social concerns that these models may generate harmful or copyrighted content. The biases and harmfulness arise throughout the entire training process and are hard to completely remove, which have become significant hurdles to the safe deployment of these models. In this paper, we propose a method called SDD to prevent problematic content generation in text-to-image diffusion models. We self-distill the diffusion model to guide the noise estimate conditioned on the target removal concept to match the unconditional one. Compared to the previous methods, our method eliminates a much greater proportion of harmful content from the generated images without degrading the overall image quality. Furthermore, our method allows the removal of multiple concepts at once, whereas previous works are limited to removing a single concept at a time. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Reduced basis method for non-symmetric eigenvalue problems: application  to the multigroup neutron diffusion equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05978  
**Abstract:** In this article, we propose a reduced basis method for parametrized non-symmetric eigenvalue problems arising in the loading pattern optimization of a nuclear core in neutronics. To this end, we derive a posteriori error estimates for the eigenvalue and left and right eigenvectors. The practical computation of these estimators requires the estimation of a constant called prefactor, which we can express as the spectral norm of some operator. We provide some elements of theoretical analysis which illustrate the link between the expression of the prefactor we obtain here and its well-known expression in the case of symmetric eigenvalue problems, either using the notion of numerical range of the operator, or via a perturbative analysis. Lastly, we propose a practical method in order to estimate this prefactor which yields interesting numerical results on actual test cases. We provide detailed numerical simulations on two-dimensional examples including a multigroup neutron diffusion equation. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Transformers in Reinforcement Learning: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05979  
**Abstract:** Transformers have significantly impacted domains like natural language processing, computer vision, and robotics, where they improve performance compared to other neural networks. This survey explores how transformers are used in reinforcement learning (RL), where they are seen as a promising solution for addressing challenges such as unstable training, credit assignment, lack of interpretability, and partial observability. We begin by providing a brief domain overview of RL, followed by a discussion on the challenges of classical RL algorithms. Next, we delve into the properties of the transformer and its variants and discuss the characteristics that make them well-suited to address the challenges inherent in RL. We examine the application of transformers to various aspects of RL, including representation learning, transition and reward function modeling, and policy optimization. We also discuss recent research that aims to enhance the interpretability and efficiency of transformers in RL, using visualization techniques and efficient training strategies. Often, the transformer architecture must be tailored to the specific needs of a given application. We present a broad overview of how transformers have been adapted for several applications, including robotics, medicine, language modeling, cloud computing, and combinatorial optimization. We conclude by discussing the limitations of using transformers in RL and assess their potential for catalyzing future breakthroughs in this field. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Navigating the Complexity of Generative AI Adoption in Software  Engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06081  
**Abstract:** In this paper, the adoption patterns of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools within software engineering are investigated. Influencing factors at the individual, technological, and societal levels are analyzed using a mixed-methods approach for an extensive comprehension of AI adoption. An initial structured interview was conducted with 100 software engineers, employing the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM), the Diffusion of Innovations theory (DOI), and the Social Cognitive Theory (SCT) as guiding theories. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** VELMA: Verbalization Embodiment of LLM Agents for Vision and Language  Navigation in Street View  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06082  
**Abstract:** Incremental decision making in real-world environments is one of the most challenging tasks in embodied artificial intelligence. One particularly demanding scenario is Vision and Language Navigation~(VLN) which requires visual and natural language understanding as well as spatial and temporal reasoning capabilities. The embodied agent needs to ground its understanding of navigation instructions in observations of a real-world environment like Street View. Despite the impressive results of LLMs in other research areas, it is an ongoing problem of how to best connect them with an interactive visual environment. In this work, we propose VELMA, an embodied LLM agent that uses a verbalization of the trajectory and of visual environment observations as contextual prompt for the next action. Visual information is verbalized by a pipeline that extracts landmarks from the human written navigation instructions and uses CLIP to determine their visibility in the current panorama view. We show that VELMA is able to successfully follow navigation instructions in Street View with only two in-context examples. We further finetune the LLM agent on a few thousand examples and achieve 25%-30% relative improvement in task completion over the previous state-of-the-art for two datasets. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Can Large Language Models Aid in Annotating Speech Emotional Data?  Uncovering New Frontiers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06090  
**Abstract:** Despite recent advancements in speech emotion recognition (SER) models, state-of-the-art deep learning (DL) approaches face the challenge of the limited availability of annotated data. Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionised our understanding of natural language, introducing emergent properties that broaden comprehension in language, speech, and vision. This paper examines the potential of LLMs to annotate abundant speech data, aiming to enhance the state-of-the-art in SER. We evaluate this capability across various settings using publicly available speech emotion classification datasets. Leveraging ChatGPT, we experimentally demonstrate the promising role of LLMs in speech emotion data annotation. Our evaluation encompasses single-shot and few-shots scenarios, revealing performance variability in SER. Notably, we achieve improved results through data augmentation, incorporating ChatGPT-annotated samples into existing datasets. Our work uncovers new frontiers in speech emotion classification, highlighting the increasing significance of LLMs in this field moving forward. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** AICT: An Adaptive Image Compression Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06091  
**Abstract:** Motivated by the efficiency investigation of the Tranformer-based transform coding framework, namely SwinT-ChARM, we propose to enhance the latter, as first, with a more straightforward yet effective Tranformer-based channel-wise auto-regressive prior model, resulting in an absolute image compression transformer (ICT). Current methods that still rely on ConvNet-based entropy coding are limited in long-range modeling dependencies due to their local connectivity and an increasing number of architectural biases and priors. On the contrary, the proposed ICT can capture both global and local contexts from the latent representations and better parameterize the distribution of the quantized latents. Further, we leverage a learnable scaling module with a sandwich ConvNeXt-based pre/post-processor to accurately extract more compact latent representation while reconstructing higher-quality images. Extensive experimental results on benchmark datasets showed that the proposed adaptive image compression transformer (AICT) framework significantly improves the trade-off between coding efficiency and decoder complexity over the versatile video coding (VVC) reference encoder (VTM-18.0) and the neural codec SwinT-ChARM. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Learning Stochastic Dynamical Systems as an Implicit Regularization with  Graph Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06097  
**Abstract:** Stochastic Gumbel graph networks are proposed to learn high-dimensional time series, where the observed dimensions are often spatially correlated. To that end, the observed randomness and spatial-correlations are captured by learning the drift and diffusion terms of the stochastic differential equation with a Gumble matrix embedding, respectively. In particular, this novel framework enables us to investigate the implicit regularization effect of the noise terms in S-GGNs. We provide a theoretical guarantee for the proposed S-GGNs by deriving the difference between the two corresponding loss functions in a small neighborhood of weight. Then, we employ Kuramoto's model to generate data for comparing the spectral density from the Hessian Matrix of the two loss functions. Experimental results on real-world data, demonstrate that S-GGNs exhibit superior convergence, robustness, and generalization, compared with state-of-the-arts. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** TreeFormer: a Semi-Supervised Transformer-based Framework for Tree  Counting from a Single High Resolution Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06118  
**Abstract:** Automatic tree density estimation and counting using single aerial and satellite images is a challenging task in photogrammetry and remote sensing, yet has an important role in forest management. In this paper, we propose the first semisupervised transformer-based framework for tree counting which reduces the expensive tree annotations for remote sensing images. Our method, termed as TreeFormer, first develops a pyramid tree representation module based on transformer blocks to extract multi-scale features during the encoding stage. Contextual attention-based feature fusion and tree density regressor modules are further designed to utilize the robust features from the encoder to estimate tree density maps in the decoder. Moreover, we propose a pyramid learning strategy that includes local tree density consistency and local tree count ranking losses to utilize unlabeled images into the training process. Finally, the tree counter token is introduced to regulate the network by computing the global tree counts for both labeled and unlabeled images. Our model was evaluated on two benchmark tree counting datasets, Jiangsu, and Yosemite, as well as a new dataset, KCL-London, created by ourselves. Our TreeFormer outperforms the state of the art semi-supervised methods under the same setting and exceeds the fully-supervised methods using the same number of labeled images. The codes and datasets are available at https://github.com/HAAClassic/TreeFormer. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** NetGPT: A Native-AI Network Architecture Beyond Provisioning  Personalized Generative Services  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06148  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have triggered tremendous success to empower daily life by generative information, and the personalization of LLMs could further contribute to their applications due to better alignment with human intents. Towards personalized generative services, a collaborative cloud-edge methodology sounds promising, as it facilitates the effective orchestration of heterogeneous distributed communication and computing resources. In this article, after discussing the pros and cons of several candidate cloud-edge collaboration techniques, we put forward NetGPT to capably deploy appropriate LLMs at the edge and the cloud in accordance with their computing capacity. In addition, edge LLMs could efficiently leverage location-based information for personalized prompt completion, thus benefiting the interaction with cloud LLMs. After deploying representative open-source LLMs (e.g., GPT-2-base and LLaMA model) at the edge and the cloud, we present the feasibility of NetGPT on the basis of low-rank adaptation-based light-weight fine-tuning. Subsequently, we highlight substantial essential changes required for a native artificial intelligence (AI) network architecture towards NetGPT, with special emphasis on deeper integration of communications and computing resources and careful calibration of logical AI workflow. Furthermore, we demonstrate several by-product benefits of NetGPT, given edge LLM's astonishing capability to predict trends and infer intents, which possibly leads to a unified solution for intelligent network management \& orchestration. In a nutshell, we argue that NetGPT is a promising native-AI network architecture beyond provisioning personalized generative services. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Self-Adaptive Large Language Model (LLM)-Based Multiagent Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06187  
**Abstract:** In autonomic computing, self-adaptation has been proposed as a fundamental paradigm to manage the complexity of multiagent systems (MASs). This achieved by extending a system with support to monitor and adapt itself to achieve specific concerns of interest. Communication in these systems is key given that in scenarios involving agent interaction, it enhances cooperation and reduces coordination challenges by enabling direct, clear information exchange. However, improving the expressiveness of the interaction communication with MASs is not without challenges. In this sense, the interplay between self-adaptive systems and effective communication is crucial for future MAS advancements. In this paper, we propose the integration of large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-based technologies into multiagent systems. We anchor our methodology on the MAPE-K model, which is renowned for its robust support in monitoring, analyzing, planning, and executing system adaptations in response to dynamic environments. We also present a practical illustration of the proposed approach, in which we implement and assess a basic MAS-based application. The approach significantly advances the state-of-the-art of self-adaptive systems by proposing a new paradigm for MAS self-adaptation of autonomous systems based on LLM capabilities. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** SepVAE: a contrastive VAE to separate pathological patterns from healthy  ones  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06206  
**Abstract:** Contrastive Analysis VAE (CA-VAEs) is a family of Variational auto-encoders (VAEs) that aims at separating the common factors of variation between a background dataset (BG) (i.e., healthy subjects) and a target dataset (TG) (i.e., patients) from the ones that only exist in the target dataset. To do so, these methods separate the latent space into a set of salient features (i.e., proper to the target dataset) and a set of common features (i.e., exist in both datasets). Currently, all models fail to prevent the sharing of information between latent spaces effectively and to capture all salient factors of variation. To this end, we introduce two crucial regularization losses: a disentangling term between common and salient representations and a classification term between background and target samples in the salient space. We show a better performance than previous CA-VAEs methods on three medical applications and a natural images dataset (CelebA). Code and datasets are available on GitHub https://github.com/neurospin-projects/2023_rlouiset_sepvae. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Ashaar: Automatic Analysis and Generation of Arabic Poetry Using Deep  Learning Approaches  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06218  
**Abstract:** Poetry holds immense significance within the cultural and traditional fabric of any nation. It serves as a vehicle for poets to articulate their emotions, preserve customs, and convey the essence of their culture. Arabic poetry is no exception, having played a cherished role in the heritage of the Arabic community throughout history and maintaining its relevance in the present era. Typically, comprehending Arabic poetry necessitates the expertise of a linguist who can analyze its content and assess its quality. This paper presents the introduction of a framework called \textit{Ashaar} https://github.com/ARBML/Ashaar, which encompasses a collection of datasets and pre-trained models designed specifically for the analysis and generation of Arabic poetry. The pipeline established within our proposed approach encompasses various aspects of poetry, such as meter, theme, and era classification. It also incorporates automatic poetry diacritization, enabling more intricate analyses like automated extraction of the \textit{Arudi} style. Additionally, we explore the feasibility of generating conditional poetry through the pre-training of a character-based GPT model. Furthermore, as part of this endeavor, we provide four datasets: one for poetry generation, another for diacritization, and two for Arudi-style prediction. These datasets aim to facilitate research and development in the field of Arabic poetry by enabling researchers and enthusiasts to delve into the nuances of this rich literary tradition. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Diffusion Based Multi-Agent Adversarial Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06244  
**Abstract:** Target tracking plays a crucial role in real-world scenarios, particularly in drug-trafficking interdiction, where the knowledge of an adversarial target's location is often limited. Improving autonomous tracking systems will enable unmanned aerial, surface, and underwater vehicles to better assist in interdicting smugglers that use manned surface, semi-submersible, and aerial vessels. As unmanned drones proliferate, accurate autonomous target estimation is even more crucial for security and safety. This paper presents Constrained Agent-based Diffusion for Enhanced Multi-Agent Tracking (CADENCE), an approach aimed at generating comprehensive predictions of adversary locations by leveraging past sparse state information. To assess the effectiveness of this approach, we evaluate predictions on single-target and multi-target pursuit environments, employing Monte-Carlo sampling of the diffusion model to estimate the probability associated with each generated trajectory. We propose a novel cross-attention based diffusion model that utilizes constraint-based sampling to generate multimodal track hypotheses. Our single-target model surpasses the performance of all baseline methods on Average Displacement Error (ADE) for predictions across all time horizons. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** UGCANet: A Unified Global Context-Aware Transformer-based Network with  Feature Alignment for Endoscopic Image Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06260  
**Abstract:** Gastrointestinal endoscopy is a medical procedure that utilizes a flexible tube equipped with a camera and other instruments to examine the digestive tract. This minimally invasive technique allows for diagnosing and managing various gastrointestinal conditions, including inflammatory bowel disease, gastrointestinal bleeding, and colon cancer. The early detection and identification of lesions in the upper gastrointestinal tract and the identification of malignant polyps that may pose a risk of cancer development are critical components of gastrointestinal endoscopy's diagnostic and therapeutic applications. Therefore, enhancing the detection rates of gastrointestinal disorders can significantly improve a patient's prognosis by increasing the likelihood of timely medical intervention, which may prolong the patient's lifespan and improve overall health outcomes. This paper presents a novel Transformer-based deep neural network designed to perform multiple tasks simultaneously, thereby enabling accurate identification of both upper gastrointestinal tract lesions and colon polyps. Our approach proposes a unique global context-aware module and leverages the powerful MiT backbone, along with a feature alignment block, to enhance the network's representation capability. This novel design leads to a significant improvement in performance across various endoscopic diagnosis tasks. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance of our method compared to other state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Exposing the Fake: Effective Diffusion-Generated Images Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06272  
**Abstract:** Image synthesis has seen significant advancements with the advent of diffusion-based generative models like Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) and text-to-image diffusion models. Despite their efficacy, there is a dearth of research dedicated to detecting diffusion-generated images, which could pose potential security and privacy risks. This paper addresses this gap by proposing a novel detection method called Stepwise Error for Diffusion-generated Image Detection (SeDID). Comprising statistical-based $\text{SeDID}_{\text{Stat}}$ and neural network-based $\text{SeDID}_{\text{NNs}}$, SeDID exploits the unique attributes of diffusion models, namely deterministic reverse and deterministic denoising computation errors. Our evaluations demonstrate SeDID's superior performance over existing methods when applied to diffusion models. Thus, our work makes a pivotal contribution to distinguishing diffusion model-generated images, marking a significant step in the domain of artificial intelligence security. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Power Loss Minimization of Distribution Network using Different Grid  Strategies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06275  
**Abstract:** Power losses in electrical power systems especially, distribution systems, occur due to several environmental and technical factors. Transmission & Distribution line losses are normally 17% and 50% respectively. These losses are due to the inappropriate size of the conductor, long distribution lines, low power factor, overloading of lines etc. The power losses cause economic loss and reduce the system's reliability. The reliability of electrical power systems can be improved by decreasing network power loss and by improving the voltage profile. In radial distribution systems, power loss can also be minimized through Distributed Generation (DG) system placement. In this thesis, three different grid strategies including real power sharing, reactive power injection and transformer tap changing are discussed and used to minimize line losses. These three proposed grid strategies have been implemented using a power flow study based on Newton-Raphson (NR) and Genetic Algorithm (GA). To minimize line losses, both methods have been used for each grid strategy. The used test system in this research work is the IEEE-30 bus radial distribution system. Results obtained after simulation of each grid strategy using NR and GA shows that real load sharing is reliable with respect to minimization of line loss as compared to reactive power injection and transformer tap changing grid strategy. Comparative analysis has been performed between GA and NR for each grid strategy, results show that Genetic Algorithm is more reliable and efficient for loss minimization as compared to Newton-Raphson. In the base case for optimum power flow solution using genetic algorithm and Newton-Raphson, real line losses are 9.481475MW and 17.557MW respectively. So, GA is preferable for each proposed grid strategy to minimize line losses than NR. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** MMBench: Is Your Multi-modal Model an All-around Player?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06281  
**Abstract:** Large vision-language models have recently achieved remarkable progress, exhibiting great perception and reasoning abilities concerning visual information. However, how to effectively evaluate these large vision-language models remains a major obstacle, hindering future model development. Traditional benchmarks like VQAv2 or COCO Caption provide quantitative performance measurements but suffer from a lack of fine-grained ability assessment and non-robust evaluation metrics. Recent subjective benchmarks, such as OwlEval, offer comprehensive evaluations of a model's abilities by incorporating human labor, but they are not scalable and display significant bias. In response to these challenges, we propose MMBench, a novel multi-modality benchmark. MMBench methodically develops a comprehensive evaluation pipeline, primarily comprised of two elements. The first element is a meticulously curated dataset that surpasses existing similar benchmarks in terms of the number and variety of evaluation questions and abilities. The second element introduces a novel CircularEval strategy and incorporates the use of ChatGPT. This implementation is designed to convert free-form predictions into pre-defined choices, thereby facilitating a more robust evaluation of the model's predictions. MMBench is a systematically-designed objective benchmark for robustly evaluating the various abilities of vision-language models. We hope MMBench will assist the research community in better evaluating their models and encourage future advancements in this domain. Project page: https://opencompass.org.cn/mmbench. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Patch n' Pack: NaViT, a Vision Transformer for any Aspect Ratio and  Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06304  
**Abstract:** The ubiquitous and demonstrably suboptimal choice of resizing images to a fixed resolution before processing them with computer vision models has not yet been successfully challenged. However, models such as the Vision Transformer (ViT) offer flexible sequence-based modeling, and hence varying input sequence lengths. We take advantage of this with NaViT (Native Resolution ViT) which uses sequence packing during training to process inputs of arbitrary resolutions and aspect ratios. Alongside flexible model usage, we demonstrate improved training efficiency for large-scale supervised and contrastive image-text pretraining. NaViT can be efficiently transferred to standard tasks such as image and video classification, object detection, and semantic segmentation and leads to improved results on robustness and fairness benchmarks. At inference time, the input resolution flexibility can be used to smoothly navigate the test-time cost-performance trade-off. We believe that NaViT marks a departure from the standard, CNN-designed, input and modelling pipeline used by most computer vision models, and represents a promising direction for ViTs. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** DNAGPT: A Generalized Pretrained Tool for Multiple DNA Sequence Analysis  Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05628  
**Abstract:** The success of the GPT series proves that GPT can extract general information from sequences, thereby benefiting all downstream tasks. This motivates us to use pre-trained models to explore the hidden information in DNA sequences. However, data and task requirements in DNA sequence analysis are complexity and diversity as DNA relevant data includes different types of information, such as sequences, expression levels, etc, while there is currently no model specifically designed for these characteristics. Hereby, we present DNAGPT, a generalized foundation model pre-trained on over 10 billion base pairs from 9 species which can be fine-tuned for any DNA sequence analysis task. Our model can simultaneously process or output DNA sequences and numbers. In addition, our unique token design allows users to design prompts according to their own task requirements, making it applicable to any type of task. We have evaluated our model on classification, regression, and generation tasks. We demonstrate that DNAGPT benefits from pre-training, and therefore can bring performance gains to any downstream task. Our model is not only a new attempt in the field of genomes analysis, but also provides a new direction for the application of foundation models in biology. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Machine Learning Study of the Extended Drug-target Interaction Network  informed by Pain Related Voltage-Gated Sodium Channels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05794  
**Abstract:** Pain is a significant global health issue, and the current treatment options for pain management have limitations in terms of effectiveness, side effects, and potential for addiction. There is a pressing need for improved pain treatments and the development of new drugs. Voltage-gated sodium channels, particularly Nav1.3, Nav1.7, Nav1.8, and Nav1.9, play a crucial role in neuronal excitability and are predominantly expressed in the peripheral nervous system. Targeting these channels may provide a means to treat pain while minimizing central and cardiac adverse effects. In this study, we construct protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks based on pain-related sodium channels and develop a corresponding drug-target interaction (DTI) network to identify potential lead compounds for pain management. To ensure reliable machine learning predictions, we carefully select 111 inhibitor datasets from a pool of over 1,000 targets in the PPI network. We employ three distinct machine learning algorithms combined with advanced natural language processing (NLP)-based embeddings, specifically pre-trained transformer and autoencoder representations. Through a systematic screening process, we evaluate the side effects and repurposing potential of over 150,000 drug candidates targeting Nav1.7 and Nav1.8 sodium channels. Additionally, we assess the ADMET (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity) properties of these candidates to identify leads with near-optimal characteristics. Our strategy provides an innovative platform for the pharmacological development of pain treatments, offering the potential for improved efficacy and reduced side effects. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** 3D Medical Image Segmentation based on multi-scale MPU-Net  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05799  
**Abstract:** The high cure rate of cancer is inextricably linked to physicians' accuracy in diagnosis and treatment, therefore a model that can accomplish high-precision tumor segmentation has become a necessity in many applications of the medical industry. It can effectively lower the rate of misdiagnosis while considerably lessening the burden on clinicians. However, fully automated target organ segmentation is problematic due to the irregular stereo structure of 3D volume organs. As a basic model for this class of real applications, U-Net excels. It can learn certain global and local features, but still lacks the capacity to grasp spatial long-range relationships and contextual information at multiple scales. This paper proposes a tumor segmentation model MPU-Net for patient volume CT images, which is inspired by Transformer with a global attention mechanism. By combining image serialization with the Position Attention Module, the model attempts to comprehend deeper contextual dependencies and accomplish precise positioning. Each layer of the decoder is also equipped with a multi-scale module and a cross-attention mechanism. The capability of feature extraction and integration at different levels has been enhanced, and the hybrid loss function developed in this study can better exploit high-resolution characteristic information. Moreover, the suggested architecture is tested and evaluated on the Liver Tumor Segmentation Challenge 2017 (LiTS 2017) dataset. Compared with the benchmark model U-Net, MPU-Net shows excellent segmentation results. The dice, accuracy, precision, specificity, IOU, and MCC metrics for the best model segmentation results are 92.17%, 99.08%, 91.91%, 99.52%, 85.91%, and 91.74%, respectively. Outstanding indicators in various aspects illustrate the exceptional performance of this framework in automatic medical image segmentation. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** A Hierarchical Transformer Encoder to Improve Entire Neoplasm  Segmentation on Whole Slide Image of Hepatocellular Carcinoma  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05800  
**Abstract:** In digital histopathology, entire neoplasm segmentation on Whole Slide Image (WSI) of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) plays an important role, especially as a preprocessing filter to automatically exclude healthy tissue, in histological molecular correlations mining and other downstream histopathological tasks. The segmentation task remains challenging due to HCC's inherent high-heterogeneity and the lack of dependency learning in large field of view. In this article, we propose a novel deep learning architecture with a hierarchical Transformer encoder, HiTrans, to learn the global dependencies within expanded 4096$\times$4096 WSI patches. HiTrans is designed to encode and decode the patches with larger reception fields and the learned global dependencies, compared to the state-of-the-art Fully Convolutional Neural networks (FCNN). Empirical evaluations verified that HiTrans leads to better segmentation performance by taking into account regional and global dependency information. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Unified Medical Image-Text-Label Contrastive Learning With Continuous  Prompt  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05920  
**Abstract:** Contrastive language-image Pre-training (CLIP) [13] can leverage large datasets of unlabeled Image-Text pairs, which have demonstrated impressive performance in various downstream tasks. Given that annotating medical data is time-consuming and laborious, Image-Text Pre-training has promising applications in exploiting large-scale medical image and radiology report datasets. However, medical Image-Text Pre-training faces several challenges, as follows: (1) Due to privacy concerns, the amount of available medical data is relatively small compared to natural data, leading to weaker generalization ability of the model. (2) Medical images are highly similar with only fine-grained differences in subtleties, resulting in a large number of false-negative sample pairs in comparison learning. (3) The hand-crafted Prompt usually differs from the natural medical image report, Subtle changes in wording can lead to significant differences in performance. In this paper, we propose a unified Image-Text-Label contrastive learning framework based on continuous prompts, with three main contributions. First, We unified the data of images, text, and labels, which greatly expanded the training data that the model could utilize. Second, we address the issue of data diversity and the impact of hand-crafted prompts on model performance by introducing continuous implicit prompts. Lastly, we propose a ImageText-Label contrastive Training to mitigate the problem of too many false-negative samples. We demonstrate through sufficient experiments that the Unified Medical Contrastive Learning (UMCL) framework exhibits excellent performance on several downstream tasks. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Stationary solutions and large time asymptotics to a  cross-diffusion-Cahn-Hilliard system  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05985  
**Abstract:** We study some properties of a multi-species degenerate Ginzburg-Landau energy and its relation to a cross-diffusion Cahn-Hilliard system. The model is motivated by multicomponent mixtures where crossdiffusion effects between the different species are taken into account, and where only one species does separate from the others. Using a comparison argument, we obtain strict bounds on the minimizers from which we can derive first-order optimality conditions, revealing a link with the single-species energy, and providing enough regularity to qualify the minimizers as stationary solutions of the evolution system. We also discuss convexity properties of the energy as well as long time asymptotics of the time-dependent problem. Lastly, we introduce a structure-preserving finite volume scheme for the time-dependent problem and present several numerical experiments in one and two spatial dimensions. 

