**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Neuro-symbolic Empowered Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models for  Real-time Anomaly Detection in Industry 4.0  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06975  
**Abstract:** Industry 4.0 involves the integration of digital technologies, such as IoT, Big Data, and AI, into manufacturing and industrial processes to increase efficiency and productivity. As these technologies become more interconnected and interdependent, Industry 4.0 systems become more complex, which brings the difficulty of identifying and stopping anomalies that may cause disturbances in the manufacturing process. This paper aims to propose a diffusion-based model for real-time anomaly prediction in Industry 4.0 processes. Using a neuro-symbolic approach, we integrate industrial ontologies in the model, thereby adding formal knowledge on smart manufacturing. Finally, we propose a simple yet effective way of distilling diffusion models through Random Fourier Features for deployment on an embedded system for direct integration into the manufacturing process. To the best of our knowledge, this approach has never been explored before. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Tackling Fake News in Bengali: Unraveling the Impact of Summarization  vs. Augmentation on Pre-trained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06979  
**Abstract:** With the rise of social media and online news sources, fake news has become a significant issue globally. However, the detection of fake news in low resource languages like Bengali has received limited attention in research. In this paper, we propose a methodology consisting of four distinct approaches to classify fake news articles in Bengali using summarization and augmentation techniques with five pre-trained language models. Our approach includes translating English news articles and using augmentation techniques to curb the deficit of fake news articles. Our research also focused on summarizing the news to tackle the token length limitation of BERT based models. Through extensive experimentation and rigorous evaluation, we show the effectiveness of summarization and augmentation in the case of Bengali fake news detection. We evaluated our models using three separate test datasets. The BanglaBERT Base model, when combined with augmentation techniques, achieved an impressive accuracy of 96% on the first test dataset. On the second test dataset, the BanglaBERT model, trained with summarized augmented news articles achieved 97% accuracy. Lastly, the mBERT Base model achieved an accuracy of 86% on the third test dataset which was reserved for generalization performance evaluation. The datasets and implementations are available at https://github.com/arman-sakif/Bengali-Fake-News-Detection 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Towards Populating Generalizable Engineering Design Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.06985  
**Abstract:** Aiming to populate generalizable engineering design knowledge, we propose a method to extract facts of the form head entity :: relationship :: tail entity from sentences found in patent documents. These facts could be combined within and across patent documents to form knowledge graphs that serve as schemes for representing as well as storing design knowledge. Existing methods in engineering design literature often utilise a set of predefined relationships to populate triples that are statistical approximations rather than facts. In our method, we train a tagger to identify both entities and relationships from a sentence. Given a pair of entities thus identified, we train another tagger to identify the relationship tokens that specifically denote the relationship between the pair. For training these taggers, we manually construct a dataset of 44,227 sentences and corresponding facts. We also compare the performance of the method against typically recommended approaches, wherein, we predict the edges among tokens by pairing the tokens independently and as part of a graph. We apply our method to sentences found in patents related to fan systems and build a domain knowledge base. Upon providing an overview of the knowledge base, we search for solutions relevant to some key issues prevailing in fan systems. We organize the responses into knowledge graphs and hold a comparative discussion against the opinions from ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Deepfake Video Detection Using Generative Convolutional Vision  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07036  
**Abstract:** Deepfakes have raised significant concerns due to their potential to spread false information and compromise digital media integrity. In this work, we propose a Generative Convolutional Vision Transformer (GenConViT) for deepfake video detection. Our model combines ConvNeXt and Swin Transformer models for feature extraction, and it utilizes Autoencoder and Variational Autoencoder to learn from the latent data distribution. By learning from the visual artifacts and latent data distribution, GenConViT achieves improved performance in detecting a wide range of deepfake videos. The model is trained and evaluated on DFDC, FF++, DeepfakeTIMIT, and Celeb-DF v2 datasets, achieving high classification accuracy, F1 scores, and AUC values. The proposed GenConViT model demonstrates robust performance in deepfake video detection, with an average accuracy of 95.8% and an AUC value of 99.3% across the tested datasets. Our proposed model addresses the challenge of generalizability in deepfake detection by leveraging visual and latent features and providing an effective solution for identifying a wide range of fake videos while preserving media integrity. The code for GenConViT is available at https://github.com/erprogs/GenConViT. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** DIALGEN: Collaborative Human-LM Generated Dialogues for Improved  Understanding of Human-Human Conversations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07047  
**Abstract:** Applications that could benefit from automatic understanding of human-human conversations often come with challenges associated with private information in real-world data such as call center or clinical conversations. Working with protected data also increases costs of annotation, which limits technology development. To address these challenges, we propose DIALGEN, a human-in-the-loop semi-automated dialogue generation framework. DIALGEN uses a language model (ChatGPT) that can follow schema and style specifications to produce fluent conversational text, generating a complex conversation through iteratively generating subdialogues and using human feedback to correct inconsistencies or redirect the flow. In experiments on structured summarization of agent-client information gathering calls, framed as dialogue state tracking, we show that DIALGEN data enables significant improvement in model performance. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Reward-Directed Conditional Diffusion: Provable Distribution Estimation  and Reward Improvement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07055  
**Abstract:** We explore the methodology and theory of reward-directed generation via conditional diffusion models. Directed generation aims to generate samples with desired properties as measured by a reward function, which has broad applications in generative AI, reinforcement learning, and computational biology. We consider the common learning scenario where the data set consists of unlabeled data along with a smaller set of data with noisy reward labels. Our approach leverages a learned reward function on the smaller data set as a pseudolabeler. From a theoretical standpoint, we show that this directed generator can effectively learn and sample from the reward-conditioned data distribution. Additionally, our model is capable of recovering the latent subspace representation of data. Moreover, we establish that the model generates a new population that moves closer to a user-specified target reward value, where the optimality gap aligns with the off-policy bandit regret in the feature subspace. The improvement in rewards obtained is influenced by the interplay between the strength of the reward signal, the distribution shift, and the cost of off-support extrapolation. We provide empirical results to validate our theory and highlight the relationship between the strength of extrapolation and the quality of generated samples. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Leveraging Pretrained ASR Encoders for Effective and Efficient  End-to-End Speech Intent Classification and Slot Filling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07057  
**Abstract:** We study speech intent classification and slot filling (SICSF) by proposing to use an encoder pretrained on speech recognition (ASR) to initialize an end-to-end (E2E) Conformer-Transformer model, which achieves the new state-of-the-art results on the SLURP dataset, with 90.14% intent accuracy and 82.27% SLURP-F1. We compare our model with encoders pretrained on self-supervised learning (SSL), and show that ASR pretraining is much more effective than SSL for SICSF. To explore parameter efficiency, we freeze the encoder and add Adapter modules, and show that parameter efficiency is only achievable with an ASR-pretrained encoder, while the SSL encoder needs full finetuning to achieve comparable results. In addition, we provide an in-depth comparison on end-to-end models versus cascading models (ASR+NLU), and show that E2E models are better than cascaded models unless an oracle ASR model is provided. Last but not least, our model is the first E2E model that achieves the same performance as cascading models with oracle ASR. Code, checkpoints and configs are available. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Bootstrapping Vision-Language Learning with Decoupled Language  Pre-training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07063  
**Abstract:** We present a novel methodology aimed at optimizing the application of frozen large language models (LLMs) for resource-intensive vision-language (VL) pre-training. The current paradigm uses visual features as prompts to guide language models, with a focus on determining the most relevant visual features for corresponding text. Our approach diverges by concentrating on the language component, specifically identifying the optimal prompts to align with visual features. We introduce the Prompt-Transformer (P-Former), a model that predicts these ideal prompts, which is trained exclusively on linguistic data, bypassing the need for image-text pairings. This strategy subtly bifurcates the end-to-end VL training process into an additional, separate stage. Our experiments reveal that our framework significantly enhances the performance of a robust image-to-text baseline (BLIP-2), and effectively narrows the performance gap between models trained with either 4M or 129M image-text pairs. Importantly, our framework is modality-agnostic and flexible in terms of architectural design, as validated by its successful application in a video learning task using varied base modules. The code is available at https://github.com/yiren-jian/BLIText 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Rician likelihood loss for quantitative MRI using self-supervised deep  learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07072  
**Abstract:** Purpose: Previous quantitative MR imaging studies using self-supervised deep learning have reported biased parameter estimates at low SNR. Such systematic errors arise from the choice of Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss function for network training, which is incompatible with Rician-distributed MR magnitude signals. To address this issue, we introduce the negative log Rician likelihood (NLR) loss. Methods: A numerically stable and accurate implementation of the NLR loss was developed to estimate quantitative parameters of the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) model and intra-voxel incoherent motion (IVIM) model. Parameter estimation accuracy, precision and overall error were evaluated in terms of bias, variance and root mean squared error and compared against the MSE loss over a range of SNRs (5 - 30). Results: Networks trained with NLR loss show higher estimation accuracy than MSE for the ADC and IVIM diffusion coefficients as SNR decreases, with minimal loss of precision or total error. At high effective SNR (high SNR and small diffusion coefficients), both losses show comparable accuracy and precision for all parameters of both models. Conclusion: The proposed NLR loss is numerically stable and accurate across the full range of tested SNRs and improves parameter estimation accuracy of diffusion coefficients using self-supervised deep learning. We expect the development to benefit quantitative MR imaging techniques broadly, enabling more accurate parameter estimation from noisy data. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Improved Flood Insights: Diffusion-Based SAR to EO Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07123  
**Abstract:** Driven by rapid climate change, the frequency and intensity of flood events are increasing. Electro-Optical (EO) satellite imagery is commonly utilized for rapid response. However, its utilities in flood situations are hampered by issues such as cloud cover and limitations during nighttime, making accurate assessment of damage challenging. Several alternative flood detection techniques utilizing Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data have been proposed. Despite the advantages of SAR over EO in the aforementioned situations, SAR presents a distinct drawback: human analysts often struggle with data interpretation. To tackle this issue, this paper introduces a novel framework, Diffusion-Based SAR to EO Image Translation (DSE). The DSE framework converts SAR images into EO images, thereby enhancing the interpretability of flood insights for humans. Experimental results on the Sen1Floods11 and SEN12-FLOOD datasets confirm that the DSE framework not only delivers enhanced visual information but also improves performance across all tested flood segmentation baselines. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** MMSD2.0: Towards a Reliable Multi-modal Sarcasm Detection System  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07135  
**Abstract:** Multi-modal sarcasm detection has attracted much recent attention. Nevertheless, the existing benchmark (MMSD) has some shortcomings that hinder the development of reliable multi-modal sarcasm detection system: (1) There are some spurious cues in MMSD, leading to the model bias learning; (2) The negative samples in MMSD are not always reasonable. To solve the aforementioned issues, we introduce MMSD2.0, a correction dataset that fixes the shortcomings of MMSD, by removing the spurious cues and re-annotating the unreasonable samples. Meanwhile, we present a novel framework called multi-view CLIP that is capable of leveraging multi-grained cues from multiple perspectives (i.e., text, image, and text-image interaction view) for multi-modal sarcasm detection. Extensive experiments show that MMSD2.0 is a valuable benchmark for building reliable multi-modal sarcasm detection systems and multi-view CLIP can significantly outperform the previous best baselines. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** CFI2P: Coarse-to-Fine Cross-Modal Correspondence Learning for  Image-to-Point Cloud Registration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07142  
**Abstract:** In the context of image-to-point cloud registration, acquiring point-to-pixel correspondences presents a challenging task since the similarity between individual points and pixels is ambiguous due to the visual differences in data modalities. Nevertheless, the same object present in the two data formats can be readily identified from the local perspective of point sets and pixel patches. Motivated by this intuition, we propose a coarse-to-fine framework that emphasizes the establishment of correspondences between local point sets and pixel patches, followed by the refinement of results at both the point and pixel levels. On a coarse scale, we mimic the classic Visual Transformer to translate both image and point cloud into two sequences of local representations, namely point and pixel proxies, and employ attention to capture global and cross-modal contexts. To supervise the coarse matching, we propose a novel projected point proportion loss, which guides to match point sets with pixel patches where more points can be projected into. On a finer scale, point-to-pixel correspondences are then refined from a smaller search space (i.e., the coarsely matched sets and patches) via well-designed sampling, attentional learning and fine matching, where sampling masks are embedded in the last two steps to mitigate the negative effect of sampling. With the high-quality correspondences, the registration problem is then resolved by EPnP algorithm within RANSAC. Experimental results on large-scale outdoor benchmarks demonstrate our superiority over existing methods. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Federated Learning-Empowered AI-Generated Content in Wireless Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07146  
**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence generated content (AIGC) has emerged as a promising technology to improve the efficiency, quality, diversity and flexibility of the content creation process by adopting a variety of generative AI models. Deploying AIGC services in wireless networks has been expected to enhance the user experience. However, the existing AIGC service provision suffers from several limitations, e.g., the centralized training in the pre-training, fine-tuning and inference processes, especially their implementations in wireless networks with privacy preservation. Federated learning (FL), as a collaborative learning framework where the model training is distributed to cooperative data owners without the need for data sharing, can be leveraged to simultaneously improve learning efficiency and achieve privacy protection for AIGC. To this end, we present FL-based techniques for empowering AIGC, and aim to enable users to generate diverse, personalized, and high-quality content. Furthermore, we conduct a case study of FL-aided AIGC fine-tuning by using the state-of-the-art AIGC model, i.e., stable diffusion model. Numerical results show that our scheme achieves advantages in effectively reducing the communication cost and training latency and privacy protection. Finally, we highlight several major research directions and open issues for the convergence of FL and AIGC. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Do not Mask Randomly: Effective Domain-adaptive Pre-training by Masking  In-domain Keywords  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07160  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel task-agnostic in-domain pre-training method that sits between generic pre-training and fine-tuning. Our approach selectively masks in-domain keywords, i.e., words that provide a compact representation of the target domain. We identify such keywords using KeyBERT (Grootendorst, 2020). We evaluate our approach using six different settings: three datasets combined with two distinct pre-trained language models (PLMs). Our results reveal that the fine-tuned PLMs adapted using our in-domain pre-training strategy outperform PLMs that used in-domain pre-training with random masking as well as those that followed the common pre-train-then-fine-tune paradigm. Further, the overhead of identifying in-domain keywords is reasonable, e.g., 7-15% of the pre-training time (for two epochs) for BERT Large (Devlin et al., 2019). 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** TriFormer: A Multi-modal Transformer Framework For Mild Cognitive  Impairment Conversion Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07177  
**Abstract:** The prediction of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) conversion to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is important for early treatment to prevent or slow the progression of AD. To accurately predict the MCI conversion to stable MCI or progressive MCI, we propose Triformer, a novel transformer-based framework with three specialized transformers to incorporate multi-model data. Triformer uses I) an image transformer to extract multi-view image features from medical scans, II) a clinical transformer to embed and correlate multi-modal clinical data, and III) a modality fusion transformer that produces an accurate prediction based on fusing the outputs from the image and clinical transformers. Triformer is evaluated on the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ANDI)1 and ADNI2 datasets and outperforms previous state-of-the-art single and multi-modal methods. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** TVPR: Text-to-Video Person Retrieval and a New Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07184  
**Abstract:** Most existing methods for text-based person retrieval focus on text-to-image person retrieval. Nevertheless, due to the lack of dynamic information provided by isolated frames, the performance is hampered when the person is obscured in isolated frames or variable motion details are given in the textual description. In this paper, we propose a new task called Text-to-Video Person Retrieval(TVPR) which aims to effectively overcome the limitations of isolated frames. Since there is no dataset or benchmark that describes person videos with natural language, we construct a large-scale cross-modal person video dataset containing detailed natural language annotations, such as person's appearance, actions and interactions with environment, etc., termed as Text-to-Video Person Re-identification (TVPReid) dataset, which will be publicly available. To this end, a Text-to-Video Person Retrieval Network (TVPRN) is proposed. Specifically, TVPRN acquires video representations by fusing visual and motion representations of person videos, which can deal with temporal occlusion and the absence of variable motion details in isolated frames. Meanwhile, we employ the pre-trained BERT to obtain caption representations and the relationship between caption and video representations to reveal the most relevant person videos. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed TVPRN, extensive experiments have been conducted on TVPReid dataset. To the best of our knowledge, TVPRN is the first successful attempt to use video for text-based person retrieval task and has achieved state-of-the-art performance on TVPReid dataset. The TVPReid dataset will be publicly available to benefit future research. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Erasing, Transforming, and Noising Defense Network for Occluded Person  Re-Identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07187  
**Abstract:** Occlusion perturbation presents a significant challenge in person re-identification (re-ID), and existing methods that rely on external visual cues require additional computational resources and only consider the issue of missing information caused by occlusion. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective framework, termed Erasing, Transforming, and Noising Defense Network (ETNDNet), which treats occlusion as a noise disturbance and solves occluded person re-ID from the perspective of adversarial defense. In the proposed ETNDNet, we introduce three strategies: Firstly, we randomly erase the feature map to create an adversarial representation with incomplete information, enabling adversarial learning of identity loss to protect the re-ID system from the disturbance of missing information. Secondly, we introduce random transformations to simulate the position misalignment caused by occlusion, training the extractor and classifier adversarially to learn robust representations immune to misaligned information. Thirdly, we perturb the feature map with random values to address noisy information introduced by obstacles and non-target pedestrians, and employ adversarial gaming in the re-ID system to enhance its resistance to occlusion noise. Without bells and whistles, ETNDNet has three key highlights: (i) it does not require any external modules with parameters, (ii) it effectively handles various issues caused by occlusion from obstacles and non-target pedestrians, and (iii) it designs the first GAN-based adversarial defense paradigm for occluded person re-ID. Extensive experiments on five public datasets fully demonstrate the effectiveness, superiority, and practicality of the proposed ETNDNet. The code will be released at \url{https://github.com/nengdong96/ETNDNet}. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Multimodal Motion Conditioned Diffusion Model for Skeleton-based Video  Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07205  
**Abstract:** Anomalies are rare and anomaly detection is often therefore framed as One-Class Classification (OCC), i.e. trained solely on normalcy. Leading OCC techniques constrain the latent representations of normal motions to limited volumes and detect as abnormal anything outside, which accounts satisfactorily for the openset'ness of anomalies. But normalcy shares the same openset'ness property, since humans can perform the same action in several ways, which the leading techniques neglect. We propose a novel generative model for video anomaly detection (VAD), which assumes that both normality and abnormality are multimodal. We consider skeletal representations and leverage state-of-the-art diffusion probabilistic models to generate multimodal future human poses. We contribute a novel conditioning on the past motion of people, and exploit the improved mode coverage capabilities of diffusion processes to generate different-but-plausible future motions. Upon the statistical aggregation of future modes, anomaly is detected when the generated set of motions is not pertinent to the actual future. We validate our model on 4 established benchmarks: UBnormal, HR-UBnormal, HR-STC, and HR-Avenue, with extensive experiments surpassing state-of-the-art results. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** High-order splitting finite element methods for the subdiffusion  equation with limited smoothing property  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07206  
**Abstract:** In contrast with the diffusion equation which smoothens the initial data to $C^\infty$ for $t>0$ (away from the corners/edges of the domain), the subdiffusion equation only exhibits limited spatial regularity. As a result, one generally cannot expect high-order accuracy in space in solving the subdiffusion equation with nonsmooth initial data. In this paper, a new splitting of the solution is constructed for high-order finite element approximations to the subdiffusion equation with nonsmooth initial data. The method is constructed by splitting the solution into two parts, i.e., a time-dependent smooth part and a time-independent nonsmooth part, and then approximating the two parts via different strategies. The time-dependent smooth part is approximated by using high-order finite element method in space and convolution quadrature in time, while the steady nonsmooth part could be approximated by using smaller mesh size or other methods that could yield high-order accuracy. Several examples are presented to show how to accurately approximate the steady nonsmooth part, including piecewise smooth initial data, Dirac--Delta point initial data, and Dirac measure concentrated on an interface. The argument could be directly extended to subdiffusion equations with nonsmooth source data. Extensive numerical experiments are presented to support the theoretical analysis and to illustrate the performance of the proposed high-order splitting finite element methods. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** MaxSR: Image Super-Resolution Using Improved MaxViT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07240  
**Abstract:** While transformer models have been demonstrated to be effective for natural language processing tasks and high-level vision tasks, only a few attempts have been made to use powerful transformer models for single image super-resolution. Because transformer models have powerful representation capacity and the in-built self-attention mechanisms in transformer models help to leverage self-similarity prior in input low-resolution image to improve performance for single image super-resolution, we present a single image super-resolution model based on recent hybrid vision transformer of MaxViT, named as MaxSR. MaxSR consists of four parts, a shallow feature extraction block, multiple cascaded adaptive MaxViT blocks to extract deep hierarchical features and model global self-similarity from low-level features efficiently, a hierarchical feature fusion block, and finally a reconstruction block. The key component of MaxSR, i.e., adaptive MaxViT block, is based on MaxViT block which mixes MBConv with squeeze-and-excitation, block attention and grid attention. In order to achieve better global modelling of self-similarity in input low-resolution image, we improve block attention and grid attention in MaxViT block to adaptive block attention and adaptive grid attention which do self-attention inside each window across all grids and each grid across all windows respectively in the most efficient way. We instantiate proposed model for classical single image super-resolution (MaxSR) and lightweight single image super-resolution (MaxSR-light). Experiments show that our MaxSR and MaxSR-light establish new state-of-the-art performance efficiently. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Mitigating Adversarial Vulnerability through Causal Parameter Estimation  by Adversarial Double Machine Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07250  
**Abstract:** Adversarial examples derived from deliberately crafted perturbations on visual inputs can easily harm decision process of deep neural networks. To prevent potential threats, various adversarial training-based defense methods have grown rapidly and become a de facto standard approach for robustness. Despite recent competitive achievements, we observe that adversarial vulnerability varies across targets and certain vulnerabilities remain prevalent. Intriguingly, such peculiar phenomenon cannot be relieved even with deeper architectures and advanced defense methods. To address this issue, in this paper, we introduce a causal approach called Adversarial Double Machine Learning (ADML), which allows us to quantify the degree of adversarial vulnerability for network predictions and capture the effect of treatments on outcome of interests. ADML can directly estimate causal parameter of adversarial perturbations per se and mitigate negative effects that can potentially damage robustness, bridging a causal perspective into the adversarial vulnerability. Through extensive experiments on various CNN and Transformer architectures, we corroborate that ADML improves adversarial robustness with large margins and relieve the empirical observation. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Improving BERT with Hybrid Pooling Network and Drop Mask  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07258  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based pre-trained language models, such as BERT, achieve great success in various natural language understanding tasks. Prior research found that BERT captures a rich hierarchy of linguistic information at different layers. However, the vanilla BERT uses the same self-attention mechanism for each layer to model the different contextual features. In this paper, we propose a HybridBERT model which combines self-attention and pooling networks to encode different contextual features in each layer. Additionally, we propose a simple DropMask method to address the mismatch between pre-training and fine-tuning caused by excessive use of special mask tokens during Masked Language Modeling pre-training. Experiments show that HybridBERT outperforms BERT in pre-training with lower loss, faster training speed (8% relative), lower memory cost (13% relative), and also in transfer learning with 1.5% relative higher accuracies on downstream tasks. Additionally, DropMask improves accuracies of BERT on downstream tasks across various masking rates. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** MorphPiece : Moving away from Statistical Language Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07262  
**Abstract:** Tokenization is a critical part of modern NLP pipelines. However, contemporary tokenizers for Large Language Models are based on statistical analysis of text corpora, without much consideration to the linguistic features. We propose a linguistically motivated tokenization scheme, MorphPiece, which is based partly on morphological segmentation of the underlying text. A GPT-style causal language model trained on this tokenizer (called MorphGPT) shows superior convergence compared to the same architecture trained on a standard BPE tokenizer. Specifically we get Language Modeling performance comparable to a 6 times larger model. Additionally, we evaluate MorphGPT on a variety of NLP tasks in supervised and unsupervised settings and find superior performance across the board, compared to GPT-2 model. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Are words equally surprising in audio and audio-visual comprehension?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07277  
**Abstract:** We report a controlled study investigating the effect of visual information (i.e., seeing the speaker) on spoken language comprehension. We compare the ERP signature (N400) associated with each word in audio-only and audio-visual presentations of the same verbal stimuli. We assess the extent to which surprisal measures (which quantify the predictability of words in their lexical context) are generated on the basis of different types of language models (specifically n-gram and Transformer models) that predict N400 responses for each word. Our results indicate that cognitive effort differs significantly between multimodal and unimodal settings. In addition, our findings suggest that while Transformer-based models, which have access to a larger lexical context, provide a better fit in the audio-only setting, 2-gram language models are more effective in the multimodal setting. This highlights the significant impact of local lexical context on cognitive processing in a multimodal environment. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** C3: Zero-shot Text-to-SQL with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07306  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a ChatGPT-based zero-shot Text-to-SQL method, dubbed C3, which achieves 82.3\% in terms of execution accuracy on the holdout test set of Spider and becomes the state-of-the-art zero-shot Text-to-SQL method on the Spider Challenge. C3 consists of three key components: Clear Prompting (CP), Calibration with Hints (CH), and Consistent Output (CO), which are corresponding to the model input, model bias and model output respectively. It provides a systematic treatment for zero-shot Text-to-SQL. Extensive experiments have been conducted to verify the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed method. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Using Large Language Models for Zero-Shot Natural Language Generation  from Knowledge Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07312  
**Abstract:** In any system that uses structured knowledge graph (KG) data as its underlying knowledge representation, KG-to-text generation is a useful tool for turning parts of the graph data into text that can be understood by humans. Recent work has shown that models that make use of pretraining on large amounts of text data can perform well on the KG-to-text task even with relatively small sets of training data on the specific graph-to-text task. In this paper, we build on this concept by using large language models to perform zero-shot generation based on nothing but the model's understanding of the triple structure from what it can read. We show that ChatGPT achieves near state-of-the-art performance on some measures of the WebNLG 2020 challenge, but falls behind on others. Additionally, we compare factual, counter-factual and fictional statements, and show that there is a significant connection between what the LLM already knows about the data it is parsing and the quality of the output text. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** HEAL-SWIN: A Vision Transformer On The Sphere  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07313  
**Abstract:** High-resolution wide-angle fisheye images are becoming more and more important for robotics applications such as autonomous driving. However, using ordinary convolutional neural networks or vision transformers on this data is problematic due to projection and distortion losses introduced when projecting to a rectangular grid on the plane. We introduce the HEAL-SWIN transformer, which combines the highly uniform Hierarchical Equal Area iso-Latitude Pixelation (HEALPix) grid used in astrophysics and cosmology with the Hierarchical Shifted-Window (SWIN) transformer to yield an efficient and flexible model capable of training on high-resolution, distortion-free spherical data. In HEAL-SWIN, the nested structure of the HEALPix grid is used to perform the patching and windowing operations of the SWIN transformer, resulting in a one-dimensional representation of the spherical data with minimal computational overhead. We demonstrate the superior performance of our model for semantic segmentation and depth regression tasks on both synthetic and real automotive datasets. Our code is available at https://github.com/JanEGerken/HEAL-SWIN. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Inverse Evolution Layers: Physics-informed Regularizers for Deep Neural  Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07344  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a novel approach to integrating partial differential equation (PDE)-based evolution models into neural networks through a new type of regularization. Specifically, we propose inverse evolution layers (IELs) based on evolution equations. These layers can achieve specific regularization objectives and endow neural networks' outputs with corresponding properties of the evolution models. Moreover, IELs are straightforward to construct and implement, and can be easily designed for various physical evolutions and neural networks. Additionally, the design process for these layers can provide neural networks with intuitive and mathematical interpretability, thus enhancing the transparency and explainability of the approach. To demonstrate the effectiveness, efficiency, and simplicity of our approach, we present an example of endowing semantic segmentation models with the smoothness property based on the heat diffusion model. To achieve this goal, we design heat-diffusion IELs and apply them to address the challenge of semantic segmentation with noisy labels. The experimental results demonstrate that the heat-diffusion IELs can effectively mitigate the overfitting problem caused by noisy labels. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** From Multilayer Perceptron to GPT: A Reflection on Deep Learning  Research for Wireless Physical Layer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07359  
**Abstract:** Most research studies on deep learning (DL) applied to the physical layer of wireless communication do not put forward the critical role of the accuracy-generalization trade-off in developing and evaluating practical algorithms. To highlight the disadvantage of this common practice, we revisit a data decoding example from one of the first papers introducing DL-based end-to-end wireless communication systems to the research community and promoting the use of artificial intelligence (AI)/DL for the wireless physical layer. We then put forward two key trade-offs in designing DL models for communication, namely, accuracy versus generalization and compression versus latency. We discuss their relevance in the context of wireless communications use cases using emerging DL models including large language models (LLMs). Finally, we summarize our proposed evaluation guidelines to enhance the research impact of DL on wireless communications. These guidelines are an attempt to reconcile the empirical nature of DL research with the rigorous requirement metrics of wireless communications systems. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Are Large Language Models a Threat to Digital Public Goods? Evidence  from Activity on Stack Overflow  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07367  
**Abstract:** Large language models like ChatGPT efficiently provide users with information about various topics, presenting a potential substitute for searching the web and asking people for help online. But since users interact privately with the model, these models may drastically reduce the amount of publicly available human-generated data and knowledge resources. This substitution can present a significant problem in securing training data for future models. In this work, we investigate how the release of ChatGPT changed human-generated open data on the web by analyzing the activity on Stack Overflow, the leading online Q\&A platform for computer programming. We find that relative to its Russian and Chinese counterparts, where access to ChatGPT is limited, and to similar forums for mathematics, where ChatGPT is less capable, activity on Stack Overflow significantly decreased. A difference-in-differences model estimates a 16\% decrease in weekly posts on Stack Overflow. This effect increases in magnitude over time, and is larger for posts related to the most widely used programming languages. Posts made after ChatGPT get similar voting scores than before, suggesting that ChatGPT is not merely displacing duplicate or low-quality content. These results suggest that more users are adopting large language models to answer questions and they are better substitutes for Stack Overflow for languages for which they have more training data. Using models like ChatGPT may be more efficient for solving certain programming problems, but its widespread adoption and the resulting shift away from public exchange on the web will limit the open data people and models can learn from in the future. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Investigating ChatGPT's Potential to Assist in Requirements Elicitation  Processes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07381  
**Abstract:** Natural Language Processing (NLP) for Requirements Engineering (RE) (NLP4RE) seeks to apply NLP tools, techniques, and resources to the RE process to increase the quality of the requirements. There is little research involving the utilization of Generative AI-based NLP tools and techniques for requirements elicitation. In recent times, Large Language Models (LLM) like ChatGPT have gained significant recognition due to their notably improved performance in NLP tasks. To explore the potential of ChatGPT to assist in requirements elicitation processes, we formulated six questions to elicit requirements using ChatGPT. Using the same six questions, we conducted interview-based surveys with five RE experts from academia and industry and collected 30 responses containing requirements. The quality of these 36 responses (human-formulated + ChatGPT-generated) was evaluated over seven different requirements quality attributes by another five RE experts through a second round of interview-based surveys. In comparing the quality of requirements generated by ChatGPT with those formulated by human experts, we found that ChatGPT-generated requirements are highly Abstract, Atomic, Consistent, Correct, and Understandable. Based on these results, we present the most pressing issues related to LLMs and what future research should focus on to leverage the emergent behaviour of LLMs more effectively in natural language-based RE activities. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Rank Your Summaries: Enhancing Bengali Text Summarization via  Ranking-based Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07392  
**Abstract:** With the increasing need for text summarization techniques that are both efficient and accurate, it becomes crucial to explore avenues that enhance the quality and precision of pre-trained models specifically tailored for summarizing Bengali texts. When it comes to text summarization tasks, there are numerous pre-trained transformer models at one's disposal. Consequently, it becomes quite a challenge to discern the most informative and relevant summary for a given text among the various options generated by these pre-trained summarization models. This paper aims to identify the most accurate and informative summary for a given text by utilizing a simple but effective ranking-based approach that compares the output of four different pre-trained Bengali text summarization models. The process begins by carrying out preprocessing of the input text that involves eliminating unnecessary elements such as special characters and punctuation marks. Next, we utilize four pre-trained summarization models to generate summaries, followed by applying a text ranking algorithm to identify the most suitable summary. Ultimately, the summary with the highest ranking score is chosen as the final one. To evaluate the effectiveness of this approach, the generated summaries are compared against human-annotated summaries using standard NLG metrics such as BLEU, ROUGE, BERTScore, WIL, WER, and METEOR. Experimental results suggest that by leveraging the strengths of each pre-trained transformer model and combining them using a ranking-based approach, our methodology significantly improves the accuracy and effectiveness of the Bengali text summarization. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Improving Zero-Shot Generalization for CLIP with Synthesized Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07397  
**Abstract:** With the growing interest in pretrained vision-language models like CLIP, recent research has focused on adapting these models to downstream tasks. Despite achieving promising results, most existing methods require labeled data for all classes, which may not hold in real-world applications due to the long tail and Zipf's law. For example, some classes may lack labeled data entirely, such as emerging concepts. To address this problem, we propose a plug-and-play generative approach called \textbf{S}ynt\textbf{H}es\textbf{I}zed \textbf{P}rompts~(\textbf{SHIP}) to improve existing fine-tuning methods. Specifically, we follow variational autoencoders to introduce a generator that reconstructs the visual features by inputting the synthesized prompts and the corresponding class names to the textual encoder of CLIP. In this manner, we easily obtain the synthesized features for the remaining label-only classes. Thereafter, we fine-tune CLIP with off-the-shelf methods by combining labeled and synthesized features. Extensive experiments on base-to-new generalization, cross-dataset transfer learning, and generalized zero-shot learning demonstrate the superiority of our approach. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/mrflogs/SHIP}. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Detecting LLM-Generated Text in Computing Education: A Comparative Study  for ChatGPT Cases  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07411  
**Abstract:** Due to the recent improvements and wide availability of Large Language Models (LLMs), they have posed a serious threat to academic integrity in education. Modern LLM-generated text detectors attempt to combat the problem by offering educators with services to assess whether some text is LLM-generated. In this work, we have collected 124 submissions from computer science students before the creation of ChatGPT. We then generated 40 ChatGPT submissions. We used this data to evaluate eight publicly-available LLM-generated text detectors through the measures of accuracy, false positives, and resilience. The purpose of this work is to inform the community of what LLM-generated text detectors work and which do not, but also to provide insights for educators to better maintain academic integrity in their courses. Our results find that CopyLeaks is the most accurate LLM-generated text detector, GPTKit is the best LLM-generated text detector to reduce false positives, and GLTR is the most resilient LLM-generated text detector. We also express concerns over 52 false positives (of 114 human written submissions) generated by GPTZero. Finally, we note that all LLM-generated text detectors are less accurate with code, other languages (aside from English), and after the use of paraphrasing tools (like QuillBot). Modern detectors are still in need of improvements so that they can offer a full-proof solution to help maintain academic integrity. Further, their usability can be improved by facilitating a smooth API integration, providing clear documentation of their features and the understandability of their model(s), and supporting more commonly used languages. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Named entity recognition using GPT for identifying comparable companies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07420  
**Abstract:** For both public and private firms, comparable companies analysis is widely used as a method for company valuation. In particular, the method is of great value for valuation of private equity companies. The several approaches to the comparable companies method usually rely on a qualitative approach to identifying similar peer companies, which tends to use established industry classification schemes and/or analyst intuition and knowledge. However, more quantitative methods have started being used in the literature and in the private equity industry, in particular, machine learning clustering, and natural language processing (NLP). For NLP methods, the process consists of extracting product entities from e.g., the company's website or company descriptions from some financial database system and then to perform similarity analysis. Here, using companies descriptions/summaries from publicly available companies' Wikipedia websites, we show that using large language models (LLMs), such as GPT from openaAI, has a much higher precision and success rate than using the standard named entity recognition (NER) which uses manual annotation. We demonstrate quantitatively a higher precision rate, and show that, qualitatively, it can be used to create appropriate comparable companies peer groups which can then be used for equity valuation. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Can LLMs be Good Financial Advisors?: An Initial Study in Personal  Decision Making for Optimized Outcomes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07422  
**Abstract:** Increasingly powerful Large Language Model (LLM) based chatbots, like ChatGPT and Bard, are becoming available to users that have the potential to revolutionize the quality of decision-making achieved by the public. In this context, we set out to investigate how such systems perform in the personal finance domain, where financial inclusion has been an overarching stated aim of banks for decades. We asked 13 questions representing banking products in personal finance: bank account, credit card, and certificate of deposits and their inter-product interactions, and decisions related to high-value purchases, payment of bank dues, and investment advice, and in different dialects and languages (English, African American Vernacular English, and Telugu). We find that although the outputs of the chatbots are fluent and plausible, there are still critical gaps in providing accurate and reliable financial information using LLM-based chatbots. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Real-time Percussive Technique Recognition and Embedding Learning for  the Acoustic Guitar  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07426  
**Abstract:** Real-time music information retrieval (RT-MIR) has much potential to augment the capabilities of traditional acoustic instruments. We develop RT-MIR techniques aimed at augmenting percussive fingerstyle, which blends acoustic guitar playing with guitar body percussion. We formulate several design objectives for RT-MIR systems for augmented instrument performance: (i) causal constraint, (ii) perceptually negligible action-to-sound latency, (iii) control intimacy support, (iv) synthesis control support. We present and evaluate real-time guitar body percussion recognition and embedding learning techniques based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and CNNs jointly trained with variational autoencoders (VAEs). We introduce a taxonomy of guitar body percussion based on hand part and location. We follow a cross-dataset evaluation approach by collecting three datasets labelled according to the taxonomy. The embedding quality of the models is assessed using KL-Divergence across distributions corresponding to different taxonomic classes. Results indicate that the networks are strong classifiers especially in a simplified 2-class recognition task, and the VAEs yield improved class separation compared to CNNs as evidenced by increased KL-Divergence across distributions. We argue that the VAE embedding quality could support control intimacy and rich interaction when the latent space's parameters are used to control an external synthesis engine. Further design challenges around generalisation to different datasets have been identified. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Towards spoken dialect identification of Irish  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07436  
**Abstract:** The Irish language is rich in its diversity of dialects and accents. This compounds the difficulty of creating a speech recognition system for the low-resource language, as such a system must contend with a high degree of variability with limited corpora. A recent study investigating dialect bias in Irish ASR found that balanced training corpora gave rise to unequal dialect performance, with performance for the Ulster dialect being consistently worse than for the Connacht or Munster dialects. Motivated by this, the present experiments investigate spoken dialect identification of Irish, with a view to incorporating such a system into the speech recognition pipeline. Two acoustic classification models are tested, XLS-R and ECAPA-TDNN, in conjunction with a text-based classifier using a pretrained Irish-language BERT model. The ECAPA-TDNN, particularly a model pretrained for language identification on the VoxLingua107 dataset, performed best overall, with an accuracy of 73%. This was further improved to 76% by fusing the model's outputs with the text-based model. The Ulster dialect was most accurately identified, with an accuracy of 94%, however the model struggled to disambiguate between the Connacht and Munster dialects, suggesting a more nuanced approach may be necessary to robustly distinguish between the dialects of Irish. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** TSNet-SAC: Leveraging Transformers for Efficient Task Scheduling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07445  
**Abstract:** In future 6G Mobile Edge Computing (MEC), autopilot systems require the capability of processing multimodal data with strong interdependencies. However, traditional heuristic algorithms are inadequate for real-time scheduling due to their requirement for multiple iterations to derive the optimal scheme. We propose a novel TSNet-SAC based on Transformer, that utilizes heuristic algorithms solely to guide the training of TSNet. Additionally, a Sliding Augment Component (SAC) is introduced to enhance the robustness and resolve algorithm defects. Furthermore, the Extender component is designed to handle multi-scale training data and provide network scalability, enabling TSNet to adapt to different access scenarios. Simulation demonstrates that TSNet-SAC outperforms existing networks in accuracy and robustness, achieving superior scheduling-making latency compared to heuristic algorithms. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** SGGNet$^2$: Speech-Scene Graph Grounding Network for Speech-guided  Navigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07468  
**Abstract:** The spoken language serves as an accessible and efficient interface, enabling non-experts and disabled users to interact with complex assistant robots. However, accurately grounding language utterances gives a significant challenge due to the acoustic variability in speakers' voices and environmental noise. In this work, we propose a novel speech-scene graph grounding network (SGGNet$^2$) that robustly grounds spoken utterances by leveraging the acoustic similarity between correctly recognized and misrecognized words obtained from automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems. To incorporate the acoustic similarity, we extend our previous grounding model, the scene-graph-based grounding network (SGGNet), with the ASR model from NVIDIA NeMo. We accomplish this by feeding the latent vector of speech pronunciations into the BERT-based grounding network within SGGNet. We evaluate the effectiveness of using latent vectors of speech commands in grounding through qualitative and quantitative studies. We also demonstrate the capability of SGGNet$^2$ in a speech-based navigation task using a real quadruped robot, RBQ-3, from Rainbow Robotics. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** DreamTeacher: Pretraining Image Backbones with Deep Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07487  
**Abstract:** In this work, we introduce a self-supervised feature representation learning framework DreamTeacher that utilizes generative networks for pre-training downstream image backbones. We propose to distill knowledge from a trained generative model into standard image backbones that have been well engineered for specific perception tasks. We investigate two types of knowledge distillation: 1) distilling learned generative features onto target image backbones as an alternative to pretraining these backbones on large labeled datasets such as ImageNet, and 2) distilling labels obtained from generative networks with task heads onto logits of target backbones. We perform extensive analyses on multiple generative models, dense prediction benchmarks, and several pre-training regimes. We empirically find that our DreamTeacher significantly outperforms existing self-supervised representation learning approaches across the board. Unsupervised ImageNet pre-training with DreamTeacher leads to significant improvements over ImageNet classification pre-training on downstream datasets, showcasing generative models, and diffusion generative models specifically, as a promising approach to representation learning on large, diverse datasets without requiring manual annotation. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** TALL: Thumbnail Layout for Deepfake Video Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07494  
**Abstract:** The growing threats of deepfakes to society and cybersecurity have raised enormous public concerns, and increasing efforts have been devoted to this critical topic of deepfake video detection. Existing video methods achieve good performance but are computationally intensive. This paper introduces a simple yet effective strategy named Thumbnail Layout (TALL), which transforms a video clip into a pre-defined layout to realize the preservation of spatial and temporal dependencies. Specifically, consecutive frames are masked in a fixed position in each frame to improve generalization, then resized to sub-images and rearranged into a pre-defined layout as the thumbnail. TALL is model-agnostic and extremely simple by only modifying a few lines of code. Inspired by the success of vision transformers, we incorporate TALL into Swin Transformer, forming an efficient and effective method TALL-Swin. Extensive experiments on intra-dataset and cross-dataset validate the validity and superiority of TALL and SOTA TALL-Swin. TALL-Swin achieves 90.79$\%$ AUC on the challenging cross-dataset task, FaceForensics++ $\to$ Celeb-DF. The code is available at https://github.com/rainy-xu/TALL4Deepfake. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** NIFTY: Neural Object Interaction Fields for Guided Human Motion  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07511  
**Abstract:** We address the problem of generating realistic 3D motions of humans interacting with objects in a scene. Our key idea is to create a neural interaction field attached to a specific object, which outputs the distance to the valid interaction manifold given a human pose as input. This interaction field guides the sampling of an object-conditioned human motion diffusion model, so as to encourage plausible contacts and affordance semantics. To support interactions with scarcely available data, we propose an automated synthetic data pipeline. For this, we seed a pre-trained motion model, which has priors for the basics of human movement, with interaction-specific anchor poses extracted from limited motion capture data. Using our guided diffusion model trained on generated synthetic data, we synthesize realistic motions for sitting and lifting with several objects, outperforming alternative approaches in terms of motion quality and successful action completion. We call our framework NIFTY: Neural Interaction Fields for Trajectory sYnthesis. 

