**ID:** 1  
**Title:** An empirical study of using radiology reports and images to improve ICU  mortality prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07513  
**Abstract:** Background: The predictive Intensive Care Unit (ICU) scoring system plays an important role in ICU management because it predicts important outcomes, especially mortality. Many scoring systems have been developed and used in the ICU. These scoring systems are primarily based on the structured clinical data in the electronic health record (EHR), which may suffer the loss of important clinical information in the narratives and images. Methods: In this work, we build a deep learning based survival prediction model with multi-modality data to predict ICU mortality. Four sets of features are investigated: (1) physiological measurements of Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS) II, (2) common thorax diseases pre-defined by radiologists, (3) BERT-based text representations, and (4) chest X-ray image features. We use the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care IV (MIMIC-IV) dataset to evaluate the proposed model. Results: Our model achieves the average C-index of 0.7829 (95% confidence interval, 0.7620-0.8038), which substantially exceeds that of the baseline with SAPS-II features (0.7470 (0.7263-0.7676)). Ablation studies further demonstrate the contributions of pre-defined labels (2.00%), text features (2.44%), and image features (2.82%). 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Artistic Strategies to Guide Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07521  
**Abstract:** Artificial Intelligence is present in the generation and distribution of culture. How do artists exploit neural networks? What impact do these algorithms have on artistic practice? Through a practice-based research methodology, this paper explores the potentials and limits of current AI technology, more precisely deep neural networks, in the context of image, text, form and translation of semiotic spaces. In a relatively short time, the generation of high-resolution images and 3D objects has been achieved. There are models, like CLIP and text2mesh, that do not need the same kind of media input as the output; we call them translation models. Such a twist contributes toward creativity arousal, which manifests itself in art practice and feeds back to the developers' pipeline. Yet again, we see how artworks act as catalysts for technology development. Those creative scenarios and processes are enabled not solely by AI models, but by the hard work behind implementing these new technologies. AI does not create a 'push-a-button' masterpiece but requires a deep understanding of the technology behind it, and a creative and critical mindset. Thus, AI opens new avenues for inspiration and offers novel tool sets, and yet again the question of authorship is asked. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** ConTrack: Contextual Transformer for Device Tracking in X-ray  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07541  
**Abstract:** Device tracking is an important prerequisite for guidance during endovascular procedures. Especially during cardiac interventions, detection and tracking of guiding the catheter tip in 2D fluoroscopic images is important for applications such as mapping vessels from angiography (high dose with contrast) to fluoroscopy (low dose without contrast). Tracking the catheter tip poses different challenges: the tip can be occluded by contrast during angiography or interventional devices; and it is always in continuous movement due to the cardiac and respiratory motions. To overcome these challenges, we propose ConTrack, a transformer-based network that uses both spatial and temporal contextual information for accurate device detection and tracking in both X-ray fluoroscopy and angiography. The spatial information comes from the template frames and the segmentation module: the template frames define the surroundings of the device, whereas the segmentation module detects the entire device to bring more context for the tip prediction. Using multiple templates makes the model more robust to the change in appearance of the device when it is occluded by the contrast agent. The flow information computed on the segmented catheter mask between the current and the previous frame helps in further refining the prediction by compensating for the respiratory and cardiac motions. The experiments show that our method achieves 45% or higher accuracy in detection and tracking when compared to state-of-the-art tracking models. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** CoTracker: It is Better to Track Together  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07635  
**Abstract:** Methods for video motion prediction either estimate jointly the instantaneous motion of all points in a given video frame using optical flow or independently track the motion of individual points throughout the video. The latter is true even for powerful deep-learning methods that can track points through occlusions. Tracking points individually ignores the strong correlation that can exist between the points, for instance, because they belong to the same physical object, potentially harming performance. In this paper, we thus propose CoTracker, an architecture that jointly tracks multiple points throughout an entire video. This architecture combines several ideas from the optical flow and tracking literature in a new, flexible and powerful design. It is based on a transformer network that models the correlation of different points in time via specialised attention layers. The transformer iteratively updates an estimate of several trajectories. It can be applied in a sliding-window manner to very long videos, for which we engineer an unrolled training loop. It can track from one to several points jointly and supports adding new points to track at any time. The result is a flexible and powerful tracking algorithm that outperforms state-of-the-art methods in almost all benchmarks. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Physics Informed Neural Networks with strong and weak residuals for  advection-dominated diffusion problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07647  
**Abstract:** This paper deals with the following important research questions. Is it possible to solve challenging advection-dominated diffusion problems in one and two dimensions using Physics Informed Neural Networks (PINN) and Variational Physics Informed Neural Networks (VPINN)? How does it compare to the higher-order and continuity Finite Element Method (FEM)? How to define the loss functions for PINN and VPINN so they converge to the correct solutions? How to select points or test functions for training of PINN and VPINN? We focus on the one-dimensional advection-dominated diffusion problem and the two-dimensional Eriksson-Johnson model problem. We show that the standard Galerkin method for FEM cannot solve this problem. We discuss the stabilization of the advection-dominated diffusion problem with the Petrov-Galerkin (PG) formulation and present the FEM solution obtained with the PG method. We employ PINN and VPINN methods, defining several strong and weak loss functions. We compare the training and solutions of PINN and VPINN methods with higher-order FEM methods. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Semantic Contrastive Bootstrapping for Single-positive Multi-label  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07680  
**Abstract:** Learning multi-label image recognition with incomplete annotation is gaining popularity due to its superior performance and significant labor savings when compared to training with fully labeled datasets. Existing literature mainly focuses on label completion and co-occurrence learning while facing difficulties with the most common single-positive label manner. To tackle this problem, we present a semantic contrastive bootstrapping (Scob) approach to gradually recover the cross-object relationships by introducing class activation as semantic guidance. With this learning guidance, we then propose a recurrent semantic masked transformer to extract iconic object-level representations and delve into the contrastive learning problems on multi-label classification tasks. We further propose a bootstrapping framework in an Expectation-Maximization fashion that iteratively optimizes the network parameters and refines semantic guidance to alleviate possible disturbance caused by wrong semantic guidance. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the proposed joint learning framework surpasses the state-of-the-art models by a large margin on four public multi-label image recognition benchmarks. Codes can be found at https://github.com/iCVTEAM/Scob. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Coupling Large Language Models with Logic Programming for Robust and  General Reasoning from Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07696  
**Abstract:** While large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-3, appear to be robust and general, their reasoning ability is not at a level to compete with the best models trained for specific natural language reasoning problems. In this study, we observe that a large language model can serve as a highly effective few-shot semantic parser. It can convert natural language sentences into a logical form that serves as input for answer set programs, a logic-based declarative knowledge representation formalism. The combination results in a robust and general system that can handle multiple question-answering tasks without requiring retraining for each new task. It only needs a few examples to guide the LLM's adaptation to a specific task, along with reusable ASP knowledge modules that can be applied to multiple tasks. We demonstrate that this method achieves state-of-the-art performance on several NLP benchmarks, including bAbI, StepGame, CLUTRR, and gSCAN. Additionally, it successfully tackles robot planning tasks that an LLM alone fails to solve. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Leveraging Large Language Models to Generate Answer Set Programs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07699  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-3 and GPT-4, have demonstrated exceptional performance in various natural language processing tasks and have shown the ability to solve certain reasoning problems. However, their reasoning capabilities are limited and relatively shallow, despite the application of various prompting techniques. In contrast, formal logic is adept at handling complex reasoning, but translating natural language descriptions into formal logic is a challenging task that non-experts struggle with. This paper proposes a neuro-symbolic method that combines the strengths of large language models and answer set programming. Specifically, we employ an LLM to transform natural language descriptions of logic puzzles into answer set programs. We carefully design prompts for an LLM to convert natural language descriptions into answer set programs in a step by step manner. Surprisingly, with just a few in-context learning examples, LLMs can generate reasonably complex answer set programs. The majority of errors made are relatively simple and can be easily corrected by humans, thus enabling LLMs to effectively assist in the creation of answer set programs. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** PSGformer: Enhancing 3D Point Cloud Instance Segmentation via Precise  Semantic Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07708  
**Abstract:** Most existing 3D instance segmentation methods are derived from 3D semantic segmentation models. However, these indirect approaches suffer from certain limitations. They fail to fully leverage global and local semantic information for accurate prediction, which hampers the overall performance of the 3D instance segmentation framework. To address these issues, this paper presents PSGformer, a novel 3D instance segmentation network. PSGformer incorporates two key advancements to enhance the performance of 3D instance segmentation. Firstly, we propose a Multi-Level Semantic Aggregation Module, which effectively captures scene features by employing foreground point filtering and multi-radius aggregation. This module enables the acquisition of more detailed semantic information from global and local perspectives. Secondly, PSGformer introduces a Parallel Feature Fusion Transformer Module that independently processes super-point features and aggregated features using transformers. The model achieves a more comprehensive feature representation by the features which connect global and local features. We conducted extensive experiments on the ScanNetv2 dataset. Notably, PSGformer exceeds compared state-of-the-art methods by 2.2% on ScanNetv2 hidden test set in terms of mAP. Our code and models will be publicly released. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** ExposureDiffusion: Learning to Expose for Low-light Image Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07710  
**Abstract:** Previous raw image-based low-light image enhancement methods predominantly relied on feed-forward neural networks to learn deterministic mappings from low-light to normally-exposed images. However, they failed to capture critical distribution information, leading to visually undesirable results. This work addresses the issue by seamlessly integrating a diffusion model with a physics-based exposure model. Different from a vanilla diffusion model that has to perform Gaussian denoising, with the injected physics-based exposure model, our restoration process can directly start from a noisy image instead of pure noise. As such, our method obtains significantly improved performance and reduced inference time compared with vanilla diffusion models. To make full use of the advantages of different intermediate steps, we further propose an adaptive residual layer that effectively screens out the side-effect in the iterative refinement when the intermediate results have been already well-exposed. The proposed framework can work with both real-paired datasets, SOTA noise models, and different backbone networks. Note that, the proposed framework is compatible with real-paired datasets, real/synthetic noise models, and different backbone networks. We evaluate the proposed method on various public benchmarks, achieving promising results with consistent improvements using different exposure models and backbones. Besides, the proposed method achieves better generalization capacity for unseen amplifying ratios and better performance than a larger feedforward neural model when few parameters are adopted. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Improving NeRF with Height Data for Utilization of GIS Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07729  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has been applied to various tasks related to representations of 3D scenes. Most studies based on NeRF have focused on a small object, while a few studies have tried to reconstruct large-scale scenes although these methods tend to require large computational cost. For the application of NeRF to large-scale scenes, a method based on NeRF is proposed in this paper to effectively use height data which can be obtained from GIS (Geographic Information System). For this purpose, the scene space was divided into multiple objects and a background using the height data to represent them with separate neural networks. In addition, an adaptive sampling method is also proposed by using the height data. As a result, the accuracy of image rendering was improved with faster training speed. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Open Scene Understanding: Grounded Situation Recognition Meets Segment  Anything for Helping People with Visual Impairments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07757  
**Abstract:** Grounded Situation Recognition (GSR) is capable of recognizing and interpreting visual scenes in a contextually intuitive way, yielding salient activities (verbs) and the involved entities (roles) depicted in images. In this work, we focus on the application of GSR in assisting people with visual impairments (PVI). However, precise localization information of detected objects is often required to navigate their surroundings confidently and make informed decisions. For the first time, we propose an Open Scene Understanding (OpenSU) system that aims to generate pixel-wise dense segmentation masks of involved entities instead of bounding boxes. Specifically, we build our OpenSU system on top of GSR by additionally adopting an efficient Segment Anything Model (SAM). Furthermore, to enhance the feature extraction and interaction between the encoder-decoder structure, we construct our OpenSU system using a solid pure transformer backbone to improve the performance of GSR. In order to accelerate the convergence, we replace all the activation functions within the GSR decoders with GELU, thereby reducing the training duration. In quantitative analysis, our model achieves state-of-the-art performance on the SWiG dataset. Moreover, through field testing on dedicated assistive technology datasets and application demonstrations, the proposed OpenSU system can be used to enhance scene understanding and facilitate the independent mobility of people with visual impairments. Our code will be available at https://github.com/RuipingL/OpenSU. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Adaptive Nonlinear Latent Transformation for Conditional Face Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07790  
**Abstract:** Recent works for face editing usually manipulate the latent space of StyleGAN via the linear semantic directions. However, they usually suffer from the entanglement of facial attributes, need to tune the optimal editing strength, and are limited to binary attributes with strong supervision signals. This paper proposes a novel adaptive nonlinear latent transformation for disentangled and conditional face editing, termed AdaTrans. Specifically, our AdaTrans divides the manipulation process into several finer steps; i.e., the direction and size at each step are conditioned on both the facial attributes and the latent codes. In this way, AdaTrans describes an adaptive nonlinear transformation trajectory to manipulate the faces into target attributes while keeping other attributes unchanged. Then, AdaTrans leverages a predefined density model to constrain the learned trajectory in the distribution of latent codes by maximizing the likelihood of transformed latent code. Moreover, we also propose a disentangled learning strategy under a mutual information framework to eliminate the entanglement among attributes, which can further relax the need for labeled data. Consequently, AdaTrans enables a controllable face editing with the advantages of disentanglement, flexibility with non-binary attributes, and high fidelity. Extensive experimental results on various facial attributes demonstrate the qualitative and quantitative effectiveness of the proposed AdaTrans over existing state-of-the-art methods, especially in the most challenging scenarios with a large age gap and few labeled examples. The source code is available at https://github.com/Hzzone/AdaTrans. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Multiscale Memory Comparator Transformer for Few-Shot Video Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07812  
**Abstract:** Few-shot video segmentation is the task of delineating a specific novel class in a query video using few labelled support images. Typical approaches compare support and query features while limiting comparisons to a single feature layer and thereby ignore potentially valuable information. We present a meta-learned Multiscale Memory Comparator (MMC) for few-shot video segmentation that combines information across scales within a transformer decoder. Typical multiscale transformer decoders for segmentation tasks learn a compressed representation, their queries, through information exchange across scales. Unlike previous work, we instead preserve the detailed feature maps during across scale information exchange via a multiscale memory transformer decoding to reduce confusion between the background and novel class. Integral to the approach, we investigate multiple forms of information exchange across scales in different tasks and provide insights with empirical evidence on which to use in each task. The overall comparisons among query and support features benefit from both rich semantics and precise localization. We demonstrate our approach primarily on few-shot video object segmentation and an adapted version on the fully supervised counterpart. In all cases, our approach outperforms the baseline and yields state-of-the-art performance. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/MSiam/MMC-MultiscaleMemory. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Transformers are Universal Predictors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07843  
**Abstract:** We find limits to the Transformer architecture for language modeling and show it has a universal prediction property in an information-theoretic sense. We further analyze performance in non-asymptotic data regimes to understand the role of various components of the Transformer architecture, especially in the context of data-efficient training. We validate our theoretical analysis with experiments on both synthetic and real datasets. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Large Language Models as Superpositions of Cultural Perspectives  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07870  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) are often misleadingly recognized as having a personality or a set of values. We argue that an LLM can be seen as a superposition of perspectives with different values and personality traits. LLMs exhibit context-dependent values and personality traits that change based on the induced perspective (as opposed to humans, who tend to have more coherent values and personality traits across contexts). We introduce the concept of perspective controllability, which refers to a model's affordance to adopt various perspectives with differing values and personality traits. In our experiments, we use questionnaires from psychology (PVQ, VSM, IPIP) to study how exhibited values and personality traits change based on different perspectives. Through qualitative experiments, we show that LLMs express different values when those are (implicitly or explicitly) implied in the prompt, and that LLMs express different values even when those are not obviously implied (demonstrating their context-dependent nature). We then conduct quantitative experiments to study the controllability of different models (GPT-4, GPT-3.5, OpenAssistant, StableVicuna, StableLM), the effectiveness of various methods for inducing perspectives, and the smoothness of the models' drivability. We conclude by examining the broader implications of our work and outline a variety of associated scientific questions. The project website is available at https://sites.google.com/view/llm-superpositions . 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** InkSight: Leveraging Sketch Interaction for Documenting Chart Findings  in Computational Notebooks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07922  
**Abstract:** Computational notebooks have become increasingly popular for exploratory data analysis due to their ability to support data exploration and explanation within a single document. Effective documentation for explaining chart findings during the exploration process is essential as it helps recall and share data analysis. However, documenting chart findings remains a challenge due to its time-consuming and tedious nature. While existing automatic methods alleviate some of the burden on users, they often fail to cater to users' specific interests. In response to these limitations, we present InkSight, a mixed-initiative computational notebook plugin that generates finding documentation based on the user's intent. InkSight allows users to express their intent in specific data subsets through sketching atop visualizations intuitively. To facilitate this, we designed two types of sketches, i.e., open-path and closed-path sketch. Upon receiving a user's sketch, InkSight identifies the sketch type and corresponding selected data items. Subsequently, it filters data fact types based on the sketch and selected data items before employing existing automatic data fact recommendation algorithms to infer data facts. Using large language models (GPT-3.5), InkSight converts data facts into effective natural language documentation. Users can conveniently fine-tune the generated documentation within InkSight. A user study with 12 participants demonstrated the usability and effectiveness of InkSight in expressing user intent and facilitating chart finding documentation. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Reinforced Disentanglement for Face Swapping without Skip Connection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07928  
**Abstract:** The SOTA face swap models still suffer the problem of either target identity (i.e., shape) being leaked or the target non-identity attributes (i.e., background, hair) failing to be fully preserved in the final results. We show that this insufficient disentanglement is caused by two flawed designs that were commonly adopted in prior models: (1) counting on only one compressed encoder to represent both the semantic-level non-identity facial attributes(i.e., pose) and the pixel-level non-facial region details, which is contradictory to satisfy at the same time; (2) highly relying on long skip-connections between the encoder and the final generator, leaking a certain amount of target face identity into the result. To fix them, we introduce a new face swap framework called 'WSC-swap' that gets rid of skip connections and uses two target encoders to respectively capture the pixel-level non-facial region attributes and the semantic non-identity attributes in the face region. To further reinforce the disentanglement learning for the target encoder, we employ both identity removal loss via adversarial training (i.e., GAN) and the non-identity preservation loss via prior 3DMM models like [11]. Extensive experiments on both FaceForensics++ and CelebA-HQ show that our results significantly outperform previous works on a rich set of metrics, including one novel metric for measuring identity consistency that was completely neglected before. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** DocTr: Document Transformer for Structured Information Extraction in  Documents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07929  
**Abstract:** We present a new formulation for structured information extraction (SIE) from visually rich documents. It aims to address the limitations of existing IOB tagging or graph-based formulations, which are either overly reliant on the correct ordering of input text or struggle with decoding a complex graph. Instead, motivated by anchor-based object detectors in vision, we represent an entity as an anchor word and a bounding box, and represent entity linking as the association between anchor words. This is more robust to text ordering, and maintains a compact graph for entity linking. The formulation motivates us to introduce 1) a DOCument TRansformer (DocTr) that aims at detecting and associating entity bounding boxes in visually rich documents, and 2) a simple pre-training strategy that helps learn entity detection in the context of language. Evaluations on three SIE benchmarks show the effectiveness of the proposed formulation, and the overall approach outperforms existing solutions. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** GeoGPT: Understanding and Processing Geospatial Tasks through An  Autonomous GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07930  
**Abstract:** Decision-makers in GIS need to combine a series of spatial algorithms and operations to solve geospatial tasks. For example, in the task of facility siting, the Buffer tool is usually first used to locate areas close or away from some specific entities; then, the Intersect or Erase tool is used to select candidate areas satisfied multiple requirements. Though professionals can easily understand and solve these geospatial tasks by sequentially utilizing relevant tools, it is difficult for non-professionals to handle these problems. Recently, Generative Pre-trained Transformer (e.g., ChatGPT) presents strong performance in semantic understanding and reasoning. Especially, AutoGPT can further extend the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) by automatically reasoning and calling externally defined tools. Inspired by these studies, we attempt to lower the threshold of non-professional users to solve geospatial tasks by integrating the semantic understanding ability inherent in LLMs with mature tools within the GIS community. Specifically, we develop a new framework called GeoGPT that can conduct geospatial data collection, processing, and analysis in an autonomous manner with the instruction of only natural language. In other words, GeoGPT is used to understand the demands of non-professional users merely based on input natural language descriptions, and then think, plan, and execute defined GIS tools to output final effective results. Several cases including geospatial data crawling, spatial query, facility siting, and mapping validate the effectiveness of our framework. Though limited cases are presented in this paper, GeoGPT can be further extended to various tasks by equipping with more GIS tools, and we think the paradigm of "foundational plus professional" implied in GeoGPT provides an effective way to develop next-generation GIS in this era of large foundation models. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** S2R-ViT for Multi-Agent Cooperative Perception: Bridging the Gap from  Simulation to Reality  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07935  
**Abstract:** Due to the lack of real multi-agent data and time-consuming of labeling, existing multi-agent cooperative perception algorithms usually select the simulated sensor data for training and validating. However, the perception performance is degraded when these simulation-trained models are deployed to the real world, due to the significant domain gap between the simulated and real data. In this paper, we propose the first Simulation-to-Reality transfer learning framework for multi-agent cooperative perception using a novel Vision Transformer, named as S2R-ViT, which considers both the Implementation Gap and Feature Gap between simulated and real data. We investigate the effects of these two types of domain gaps and propose a novel uncertainty-aware vision transformer to effectively relief the Implementation Gap and an agent-based feature adaptation module with inter-agent and ego-agent discriminators to reduce the Feature Gap. Our intensive experiments on the public multi-agent cooperative perception datasets OPV2V and V2V4Real demonstrate that the proposed S2R-ViT can effectively bridge the gap from simulation to reality and outperform other methods significantly for point cloud-based 3D object detection. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** CVSformer: Cross-View Synthesis Transformer for Semantic Scene  Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07938  
**Abstract:** Semantic scene completion (SSC) requires an accurate understanding of the geometric and semantic relationships between the objects in the 3D scene for reasoning the occluded objects. The popular SSC methods voxelize the 3D objects, allowing the deep 3D convolutional network (3D CNN) to learn the object relationships from the complex scenes. However, the current networks lack the controllable kernels to model the object relationship across multiple views, where appropriate views provide the relevant information for suggesting the existence of the occluded objects. In this paper, we propose Cross-View Synthesis Transformer (CVSformer), which consists of Multi-View Feature Synthesis and Cross-View Transformer for learning cross-view object relationships. In the multi-view feature synthesis, we use a set of 3D convolutional kernels rotated differently to compute the multi-view features for each voxel. In the cross-view transformer, we employ the cross-view fusion to comprehensively learn the cross-view relationships, which form useful information for enhancing the features of individual views. We use the enhanced features to predict the geometric occupancies and semantic labels of all voxels. We evaluate CVSformer on public datasets, where CVSformer yields state-of-the-art results. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Language Conditioned Traffic Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07947  
**Abstract:** Simulation forms the backbone of modern self-driving development. Simulators help develop, test, and improve driving systems without putting humans, vehicles, or their environment at risk. However, simulators face a major challenge: They rely on realistic, scalable, yet interesting content. While recent advances in rendering and scene reconstruction make great strides in creating static scene assets, modeling their layout, dynamics, and behaviors remains challenging. In this work, we turn to language as a source of supervision for dynamic traffic scene generation. Our model, LCTGen, combines a large language model with a transformer-based decoder architecture that selects likely map locations from a dataset of maps, and produces an initial traffic distribution, as well as the dynamics of each vehicle. LCTGen outperforms prior work in both unconditional and conditional traffic scene generation in terms of realism and fidelity. Code and video will be available at https://ariostgx.github.io/lctgen. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Generalizable prediction of potential miRNA-disease associations based  on heterogeneous graph learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07957  
**Abstract:** Biomedical studies have revealed the crucial role of miRNAs in the progression of many diseases, and computational prediction methods are increasingly proposed for assisting biological experiments to verify miRNA-disease associations (MDAs). The generalizability is a significant issue, the prediction ought to be available for entities with fewer or without existing MDAs, while it is previously underemphasized. In this study, we work on the stages of data, model, and result analysis. First, we integrate multi-source data into a miRNA-PCG-disease graph, embracing all authoritative recorded human miRNAs and diseases, and the verified MDAs are split by time and known degree as a benchmark. Second, we propose an end-to-end data-driven model that avoids taking the existing MDAs as an input feature. It performs node feature encoding, graph structure learning, and binary prediction centered on a heterogeneous graph transformer. Finally, computational experiments indicate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on basic metrics and effectively alleviates the neglect of less and zero known miRNAs and diseases. Predictions are conducted on all human miRNA-disease pairs, case studies further demonstrate that we can make reliable MDA detections on unseen diseases, and the prediction basis is instance-level explainable. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** The Roll-Out of Community Notes Did Not Reduce Engagement With  Misinformation on Twitter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07960  
**Abstract:** Developing interventions that successfully reduce engagement with misinformation on social media is challenging. One intervention that has recently gained great attention is Twitter's Community Notes (previously known as "Birdwatch"). Community Notes is a crowdsourced fact-checking approach that allows users to write textual notes to inform others about potentially misleading posts on Twitter. Yet, empirical evidence regarding its effectiveness in reducing engagement with misinformation on social media is missing. In this paper, we perform a large-scale empirical study to analyze whether the introduction of the Community Notes feature and its roll-out to users in the U. S. and around the world have reduced engagement with misinformation on Twitter in terms of retweet volume and likes. We employ Difference-in-Difference (DiD) models and Regression Discontinuity Design (RDD) to analyze a comprehensive dataset consisting of all fact-checking notes and corresponding source tweets since the launch of Community Notes in early 2021. Although we observe a significant increase in the volume of fact-checks carried out via Community Notes, particularly for tweets from verified users with many followers, we find no evidence that the introduction of Community Notes significantly reduced engagement with misleading tweets on Twitter. Rather, our findings suggest that Community Notes might be too slow to effectively reduce engagement with misinformation in the early (and most viral) stage of diffusion. Our work emphasizes the importance of evaluating fact-checking interventions in the field and offers important implications to enhance crowdsourced fact-checking strategies on social media. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** A Survey of Techniques for Optimizing Transformer Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07982  
**Abstract:** Recent years have seen a phenomenal rise in performance and applications of transformer neural networks. The family of transformer networks, including Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformer (BERT), Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT) and Vision Transformer (ViT), have shown their effectiveness across Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Computer Vision (CV) domains. Transformer-based networks such as ChatGPT have impacted the lives of common men. However, the quest for high predictive performance has led to an exponential increase in transformers' memory and compute footprint. Researchers have proposed techniques to optimize transformer inference at all levels of abstraction. This paper presents a comprehensive survey of techniques for optimizing the inference phase of transformer networks. We survey techniques such as knowledge distillation, pruning, quantization, neural architecture search and lightweight network design at the algorithmic level. We further review hardware-level optimization techniques and the design of novel hardware accelerators for transformers. We summarize the quantitative results on the number of parameters/FLOPs and accuracy of several models/techniques to showcase the tradeoff exercised by them. We also outline future directions in this rapidly evolving field of research. We believe that this survey will educate both novice and seasoned researchers and also spark a plethora of research efforts in this field. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Householder Projector for Unsupervised Latent Semantics Discovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08012  
**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), especially the recent style-based generators (StyleGANs), have versatile semantics in the structured latent space. Latent semantics discovery methods emerge to move around the latent code such that only one factor varies during the traversal. Recently, an unsupervised method proposed a promising direction to directly use the eigenvectors of the projection matrix that maps latent codes to features as the interpretable directions. However, one overlooked fact is that the projection matrix is non-orthogonal and the number of eigenvectors is too large. The non-orthogonality would entangle semantic attributes in the top few eigenvectors, and the large dimensionality might result in meaningless variations among the directions even if the matrix is orthogonal. To avoid these issues, we propose Householder Projector, a flexible and general low-rank orthogonal matrix representation based on Householder transformations, to parameterize the projection matrix. The orthogonality guarantees that the eigenvectors correspond to disentangled interpretable semantics, while the low-rank property encourages that each identified direction has meaningful variations. We integrate our projector into pre-trained StyleGAN2/StyleGAN3 and evaluate the models on several benchmarks. Within only $1\%$ of the original training steps for fine-tuning, our projector helps StyleGANs to discover more disentangled and precise semantic attributes without sacrificing image fidelity. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Boosting 3-DoF Ground-to-Satellite Camera Localization Accuracy via  Geometry-Guided Cross-View Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08015  
**Abstract:** Image retrieval-based cross-view localization methods often lead to very coarse camera pose estimation, due to the limited sampling density of the database satellite images. In this paper, we propose a method to increase the accuracy of a ground camera's location and orientation by estimating the relative rotation and translation between the ground-level image and its matched/retrieved satellite image. Our approach designs a geometry-guided cross-view transformer that combines the benefits of conventional geometry and learnable cross-view transformers to map the ground-view observations to an overhead view. Given the synthesized overhead view and observed satellite feature maps, we construct a neural pose optimizer with strong global information embedding ability to estimate the relative rotation between them. After aligning their rotations, we develop an uncertainty-guided spatial correlation to generate a probability map of the vehicle locations, from which the relative translation can be determined. Experimental results demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art. Notably, the likelihood of restricting the vehicle lateral pose to be within 1m of its Ground Truth (GT) value on the cross-view KITTI dataset has been improved from $35.54\%$ to $76.44\%$, and the likelihood of restricting the vehicle orientation to be within $1^{\circ}$ of its GT value has been improved from $19.64\%$ to $99.10\%$. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Breaking Down the Task: A Unit-Grained Hybrid Training Framework for  Vision and Language Decision Making  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08016  
**Abstract:** Vision language decision making (VLDM) is a challenging multimodal task. The agent have to understand complex human instructions and complete compositional tasks involving environment navigation and object manipulation. However, the long action sequences involved in VLDM make the task difficult to learn. From an environment perspective, we find that task episodes can be divided into fine-grained \textit{units}, each containing a navigation phase and an interaction phase. Since the environment within a unit stays unchanged, we propose a novel hybrid-training framework that enables active exploration in the environment and reduces the exposure bias. Such framework leverages the unit-grained configurations and is model-agnostic. Specifically, we design a Unit-Transformer (UT) with an intrinsic recurrent state that maintains a unit-scale cross-modal memory. Through extensive experiments on the TEACH benchmark, we demonstrate that our proposed framework outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods in terms of all evaluation metrics. Overall, our work introduces a novel approach to tackling the VLDM task by breaking it down into smaller, manageable units and utilizing a hybrid-training framework. By doing so, we provide a more flexible and effective solution for multimodal decision making. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Analysing Gender Bias in Text-to-Image Models using Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08025  
**Abstract:** This work presents a novel strategy to measure bias in text-to-image models. Using paired prompts that specify gender and vaguely reference an object (e.g. "a man/woman holding an item") we can examine whether certain objects are associated with a certain gender. In analysing results from Stable Diffusion, we observed that male prompts generated objects such as ties, knives, trucks, baseball bats, and bicycles more frequently. On the other hand, female prompts were more likely to generate objects such as handbags, umbrellas, bowls, bottles, and cups. We hope that the method outlined here will be a useful tool for examining bias in text-to-image models. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Planting a SEED of Vision in Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08041  
**Abstract:** We present SEED, an elaborate image tokenizer that empowers Large Language Models (LLMs) with the emergent ability to SEE and Draw at the same time. Research on image tokenizers has previously reached an impasse, as frameworks employing quantized visual tokens have lost prominence due to subpar performance and convergence in multimodal comprehension (compared to BLIP-2, etc.) or generation (compared to Stable Diffusion, etc.). Despite the limitations, we remain confident in its natural capacity to unify visual and textual representations, facilitating scalable multimodal training with LLM's original recipe. In this study, we identify two crucial principles for the architecture and training of SEED that effectively ease subsequent alignment with LLMs. (1) Image tokens should be independent of 2D physical patch positions and instead be produced with a 1D causal dependency, exhibiting intrinsic interdependence that aligns with the left-to-right autoregressive prediction mechanism in LLMs. (2) Image tokens should capture high-level semantics consistent with the degree of semantic abstraction in words, and be optimized for both discriminativeness and reconstruction during the tokenizer training phase. As a result, the off-the-shelf LLM is able to perform both image-to-text and text-to-image generation by incorporating our SEED through efficient LoRA tuning. Comprehensive multimodal pretraining and instruction tuning, which may yield improved results, are reserved for future investigation. This version of SEED was trained in 5.7 days using only 64 V100 GPUs and 5M publicly available image-text pairs. Our preliminary study emphasizes the great potential of discrete visual tokens in versatile multimodal LLMs and the importance of proper image tokenizers in broader research. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** LafitE: Latent Diffusion Model with Feature Editing for Unsupervised  Multi-class Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08059  
**Abstract:** In the context of flexible manufacturing systems that are required to produce different types and quantities of products with minimal reconfiguration, this paper addresses the problem of unsupervised multi-class anomaly detection: develop a unified model to detect anomalies from objects belonging to multiple classes when only normal data is accessible. We first explore the generative-based approach and investigate latent diffusion models for reconstruction to mitigate the notorious ``identity shortcut'' issue in auto-encoder based methods. We then introduce a feature editing strategy that modifies the input feature space of the diffusion model to further alleviate ``identity shortcuts'' and meanwhile improve the reconstruction quality of normal regions, leading to fewer false positive predictions. Moreover, we are the first who pose the problem of hyperparameter selection in unsupervised anomaly detection, and propose a solution of synthesizing anomaly data for a pseudo validation set to address this problem. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets MVTec-AD and MPDD show that the proposed LafitE, \ie, Latent Diffusion Model with Feature Editing, outperforms state-of-art methods by a significant margin in terms of average AUROC. The hyperparamters selected via our pseudo validation set are well-matched to the real test set. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Dense Multitask Learning to Reconfigure Comics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08071  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we develop a MultiTask Learning (MTL) model to achieve dense predictions for comics panels to, in turn, facilitate the transfer of comics from one publication channel to another by assisting authors in the task of reconfiguring their narratives. Our MTL method can successfully identify the semantic units as well as the embedded notion of 3D in comic panels. This is a significantly challenging problem because comics comprise disparate artistic styles, illustrations, layouts, and object scales that depend on the authors creative process. Typically, dense image-based prediction techniques require a large corpus of data. Finding an automated solution for dense prediction in the comics domain, therefore, becomes more difficult with the lack of ground-truth dense annotations for the comics images. To address these challenges, we develop the following solutions: 1) we leverage a commonly-used strategy known as unsupervised image-to-image translation, which allows us to utilize a large corpus of real-world annotations; 2) we utilize the results of the translations to develop our multitasking approach that is based on a vision transformer backbone and a domain transferable attention module; 3) we study the feasibility of integrating our MTL dense-prediction method with an existing retargeting method, thereby reconfiguring comics. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Disco-Bench: A Discourse-Aware Evaluation Benchmark for Language  Modelling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08074  
**Abstract:** Modeling discourse -- the linguistic phenomena that go beyond individual sentences, is a fundamental yet challenging aspect of natural language processing (NLP). However, existing evaluation benchmarks primarily focus on the evaluation of inter-sentence properties and overlook critical discourse phenomena that cross sentences. To bridge the gap, we propose Disco-Bench, a benchmark that can evaluate intra-sentence discourse properties across a diverse set of NLP tasks, covering understanding, translation, and generation. Disco-Bench consists of 9 document-level testsets in the literature domain, which contain rich discourse phenomena (e.g. cohesion and coherence) in Chinese and/or English. For linguistic analysis, we also design a diagnostic test suite that can examine whether the target models learn discourse knowledge. We totally evaluate 20 general-, in-domain and commercial models based on Transformer, advanced pretraining architectures and large language models (LLMs). Our results show (1) the challenge and necessity of our evaluation benchmark; (2) fine-grained pretraining based on literary document-level training data consistently improves the modeling of discourse information. We will release the datasets, pretrained models, and leaderboard, which we hope can significantly facilitate research in this field: https://github.com/longyuewangdcu/Disco-Bench. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Diffusion to Confusion: Naturalistic Adversarial Patch Generation Based  on Diffusion Model for Object Detector  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08076  
**Abstract:** Many physical adversarial patch generation methods are widely proposed to protect personal privacy from malicious monitoring using object detectors. However, they usually fail to generate satisfactory patch images in terms of both stealthiness and attack performance without making huge efforts on careful hyperparameter tuning. To address this issue, we propose a novel naturalistic adversarial patch generation method based on the diffusion models (DM). Through sampling the optimal image from the DM model pretrained upon natural images, it allows us to stably craft high-quality and naturalistic physical adversarial patches to humans without suffering from serious mode collapse problems as other deep generative models. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to propose DM-based naturalistic adversarial patch generation for object detectors. With extensive quantitative, qualitative, and subjective experiments, the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach to generate better-quality and more naturalistic adversarial patches while achieving acceptable attack performance than other state-of-the-art patch generation methods. We also show various generation trade-offs under different conditions. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Efficient numerical method for multi-term time-fractional diffusion  equations with Caputo-Fabrizio derivatives  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08078  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we consider a numerical method for the multi-term Caputo-Fabrizio time-fractional diffusion equations (with orders $\alpha_i\in(0,1)$, $i=1,2,\cdots,n$). The proposed method employs a fast finite difference scheme to approximate multi-term fractional derivatives in time, requiring only $O(1)$ storage and $O(N_T)$ computational complexity, where $N_T$ denotes the total number of time steps. Then we use a Legendre spectral collocation method for spatial discretization. The stability and convergence of the scheme have been thoroughly discussed and rigorously established. We demonstrate that the proposed scheme is unconditionally stable and convergent with an order of $O(\left(\Delta t\right)^{2}+N^{-m})$, where $\Delta t$, $N$, and $m$ represent the timestep size, polynomial degree, and regularity in the spatial variable of the exact solution, respectively. Numerical results are presented to validate the theoretical predictions. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Cross-Ray Neural Radiance Fields for Novel-view Synthesis from  Unconstrained Image Collections  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08093  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) is a revolutionary approach for rendering scenes by sampling a single ray per pixel and it has demonstrated impressive capabilities in novel-view synthesis from static scene images. However, in practice, we usually need to recover NeRF from unconstrained image collections, which poses two challenges: 1) the images often have dynamic changes in appearance because of different capturing time and camera settings; 2) the images may contain transient objects such as humans and cars, leading to occlusion and ghosting artifacts. Conventional approaches seek to address these challenges by locally utilizing a single ray to synthesize a color of a pixel. In contrast, humans typically perceive appearance and objects by globally utilizing information across multiple pixels. To mimic the perception process of humans, in this paper, we propose Cross-Ray NeRF (CR-NeRF) that leverages interactive information across multiple rays to synthesize occlusion-free novel views with the same appearances as the images. Specifically, to model varying appearances, we first propose to represent multiple rays with a novel cross-ray feature and then recover the appearance by fusing global statistics, i.e., feature covariance of the rays and the image appearance. Moreover, to avoid occlusion introduced by transient objects, we propose a transient objects handler and introduce a grid sampling strategy for masking out the transient objects. We theoretically find that leveraging correlation across multiple rays promotes capturing more global information. Moreover, extensive experimental results on large real-world datasets verify the effectiveness of CR-NeRF. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Semi-DETR: Semi-Supervised Object Detection with Detection Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08095  
**Abstract:** We analyze the DETR-based framework on semi-supervised object detection (SSOD) and observe that (1) the one-to-one assignment strategy generates incorrect matching when the pseudo ground-truth bounding box is inaccurate, leading to training inefficiency; (2) DETR-based detectors lack deterministic correspondence between the input query and its prediction output, which hinders the applicability of the consistency-based regularization widely used in current SSOD methods. We present Semi-DETR, the first transformer-based end-to-end semi-supervised object detector, to tackle these problems. Specifically, we propose a Stage-wise Hybrid Matching strategy that combines the one-to-many assignment and one-to-one assignment strategies to improve the training efficiency of the first stage and thus provide high-quality pseudo labels for the training of the second stage. Besides, we introduce a Crossview Query Consistency method to learn the semantic feature invariance of object queries from different views while avoiding the need to find deterministic query correspondence. Furthermore, we propose a Cost-based Pseudo Label Mining module to dynamically mine more pseudo boxes based on the matching cost of pseudo ground truth bounding boxes for consistency training. Extensive experiments on all SSOD settings of both COCO and Pascal VOC benchmark datasets show that our Semi-DETR method outperforms all state-of-the-art methods by clear margins. The PaddlePaddle version code1 is at https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleDetection/tree/develop/configs/semi_det/semi_detr. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Flux-corrected transport stabilization of an evolutionary  cross-diffusion cancer invasion model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08096  
**Abstract:** In the present work, we investigate a model of the invasion of healthy tissue by cancer cells which is described by a system of nonlinear PDEs consisting of a cross-diffusion-reaction equation and two additional nonlinear ordinary differential equations. We show that when the convective part of the system, the chemotactic term, is dominant, then straightforward numerical methods for the studied system may be unstable. We present an implicit finite element method using conforming $P_1$ or $Q_1$ finite elements to discretize the model in space and the $\theta$-method for discretization in time. The discrete problem is stabilized using a nonlinear flux-corrected transport approach. It is proved that both the nonlinear scheme and the linearized problems used in fixed-point iterations are solvable and positivity preserving. Several numerical experiments are presented in 2D using the deal.II library to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Discovering a reaction-diffusion model for Alzheimer's disease by  combining PINNs with symbolic regression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08107  
**Abstract:** Misfolded tau proteins play a critical role in the progression and pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies suggest that the spatio-temporal pattern of misfolded tau follows a reaction-diffusion type equation. However, the precise mathematical model and parameters that characterize the progression of misfolded protein across the brain remain incompletely understood. Here, we use deep learning and artificial intelligence to discover a mathematical model for the progression of Alzheimer's disease using longitudinal tau positron emission tomography from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative database. Specifically, we integrate physics informed neural networks (PINNs) and symbolic regression to discover a reaction-diffusion type partial differential equation for tau protein misfolding and spreading. First, we demonstrate the potential of our model and parameter discovery on synthetic data. Then, we apply our method to discover the best model and parameters to explain tau imaging data from 46 individuals who are likely to develop Alzheimer's disease and 30 healthy controls. Our symbolic regression discovers different misfolding models $f(c)$ for two groups, with a faster misfolding for the Alzheimer's group, $f(c) = 0.23c^3 - 1.34c^2 + 1.11c$, than for the healthy control group, $f(c) = -c^3 +0.62c^2 + 0.39c$. Our results suggest that PINNs, supplemented by symbolic regression, can discover a reaction-diffusion type model to explain misfolded tau protein concentrations in Alzheimer's disease. We expect our study to be the starting point for a more holistic analysis to provide image-based technologies for early diagnosis, and ideally early treatment of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease and possibly other misfolding-protein based neurodegenerative disorders. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Domain Generalisation with Bidirectional Encoder Representations from  Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08117  
**Abstract:** Domain generalisation involves pooling knowledge from source domain(s) into a single model that can generalise to unseen target domain(s). Recent research in domain generalisation has faced challenges when using deep learning models as they interact with data distributions which differ from those they are trained on. Here we perform domain generalisation on out-of-distribution (OOD) vision benchmarks using vision transformers. Initially we examine four vision transformer architectures namely ViT, LeViT, DeiT, and BEIT on out-of-distribution data. As the bidirectional encoder representation from image transformers (BEIT) architecture performs best, we use it in further experiments on three benchmarks PACS, Home-Office and DomainNet. Our results show significant improvements in validation and test accuracy and our implementation significantly overcomes gaps between within-distribution and OOD data. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Tangent Transformers for Composition, Privacy and Removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08122  
**Abstract:** We introduce Tangent Attention Fine-Tuning (TAFT), a method for fine-tuning linearized transformers obtained by computing a First-order Taylor Expansion around a pre-trained initialization. We show that the Jacobian-Vector Product resulting from linearization can be computed efficiently in a single forward pass, reducing training and inference cost to the same order of magnitude as its original non-linear counterpart, while using the same number of parameters. Furthermore, we show that, when applied to various downstream visual classification tasks, the resulting Tangent Transformer fine-tuned with TAFT can perform comparably with fine-tuning the original non-linear network. Since Tangent Transformers are linear with respect to the new set of weights, and the resulting fine-tuning loss is convex, we show that TAFT enjoys several advantages compared to non-linear fine-tuning when it comes to model composition, parallel training, machine unlearning, and differential privacy. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Solving Inverse Problems with Latent Diffusion Models via Hard Data  Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08123  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have recently emerged as powerful generative priors for solving inverse problems. However, training diffusion models in the pixel space are both data intensive and computationally demanding, which restricts their applicability as priors in domains such as medical imaging. Latent diffusion models, which operate in a much lower-dimensional space, offer a solution to these challenges. Though, their direct application to solving inverse problems remains an unsolved technical challenge due to the nonlinearity of the encoder and decoder. To address this issue,we propose ReSample, an algorithm that solves general inverse problems with pre-trained latent diffusion models. Our algorithm incorporates data consistency by solving an optimization problem during the reverse sampling process, a concept that we term as hard data consistency. Upon solving this optimization problem, we propose a novel resampling scheme to map the measurement-consistent sample back onto the correct data manifold. Our approach offers both memory efficiency and considerable flexibility in the sense that (1) it can be readily adapted to various inverse problems using the same pre-trained model as it does not assume any fixed forward measurement operator during training, and (2) it can be generalized to different domains by simply fine-tuning the latent diffusion model with a minimal amount of data samples. Our empirical results on both linear and non-linear inverse problems demonstrate that our approach can reconstruct high-quality images even compared to state-of-the-art works that operate in the pixel space. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Heterogeneous graphs model spatial relationships between biological  entities for breast cancer diagnosis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08132  
**Abstract:** The heterogeneity of breast cancer presents considerable challenges for its early detection, prognosis, and treatment selection. Convolutional neural networks often neglect the spatial relationships within histopathological images, which can limit their accuracy. Graph neural networks (GNNs) offer a promising solution by coding the spatial relationships within images. Prior studies have investigated the modeling of histopathological images as cell and tissue graphs, but they have not fully tapped into the potential of extracting interrelationships between these biological entities. In this paper, we present a novel approach using a heterogeneous GNN that captures the spatial and hierarchical relations between cell and tissue graphs to enhance the extraction of useful information from histopathological images. We also compare the performance of a cross-attention-based network and a transformer architecture for modeling the intricate relationships within tissue and cell graphs. Our model demonstrates superior efficiency in terms of parameter count and achieves higher accuracy compared to the transformer-based state-of-the-art approach on three publicly available breast cancer datasets -- BRIGHT, BreakHis, and BACH. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Self-Attention Based Generative Adversarial Networks For Unsupervised  Video Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08145  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we study the problem of producing a comprehensive video summary following an unsupervised approach that relies on adversarial learning. We build on a popular method where a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) is trained to create representative summaries, indistinguishable from the originals. The introduction of the attention mechanism into the architecture for the selection, encoding and decoding of video frames, shows the efficacy of self-attention and transformer in modeling temporal relationships for video summarization. We propose the SUM-GAN-AED model that uses a self-attention mechanism for frame selection, combined with LSTMs for encoding and decoding. We evaluate the performance of the SUM-GAN-AED model on the SumMe, TVSum and COGNIMUSE datasets. Experimental results indicate that using a self-attention mechanism as the frame selection mechanism outperforms the state-of-the-art on SumMe and leads to comparable to state-of-the-art performance on TVSum and COGNIMUSE. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** The Potential and Pitfalls of using a Large Language Model such as  ChatGPT or GPT-4 as a Clinical Assistant  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08152  
**Abstract:** Recent studies have demonstrated promising performance of ChatGPT and GPT-4 on several medical domain tasks. However, none have assessed its performance using a large-scale real-world electronic health record database, nor have evaluated its utility in providing clinical diagnostic assistance for patients across a full range of disease presentation. We performed two analyses using ChatGPT and GPT-4, one to identify patients with specific medical diagnoses using a real-world large electronic health record database and the other, in providing diagnostic assistance to healthcare workers in the prospective evaluation of hypothetical patients. Our results show that GPT-4 across disease classification tasks with chain of thought and few-shot prompting can achieve performance as high as 96% F1 scores. For patient assessment, GPT-4 can accurately diagnose three out of four times. However, there were mentions of factually incorrect statements, overlooking crucial medical findings, recommendations for unnecessary investigations and overtreatment. These issues coupled with privacy concerns, make these models currently inadequate for real world clinical use. However, limited data and time needed for prompt engineering in comparison to configuration of conventional machine learning workflows highlight their potential for scalability across healthcare applications. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Assessing the Quality of Multiple-Choice Questions Using GPT-4 and  Rule-Based Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08161  
**Abstract:** Multiple-choice questions with item-writing flaws can negatively impact student learning and skew analytics. These flaws are often present in student-generated questions, making it difficult to assess their quality and suitability for classroom usage. Existing methods for evaluating multiple-choice questions often focus on machine readability metrics, without considering their intended use within course materials and their pedagogical implications. In this study, we compared the performance of a rule-based method we developed to a machine-learning based method utilizing GPT-4 for the task of automatically assessing multiple-choice questions based on 19 common item-writing flaws. By analyzing 200 student-generated questions from four different subject areas, we found that the rule-based method correctly detected 91% of the flaws identified by human annotators, as compared to 79% by GPT-4. We demonstrated the effectiveness of the two methods in identifying common item-writing flaws present in the student-generated questions across different subject areas. The rule-based method can accurately and efficiently evaluate multiple-choice questions from multiple domains, outperforming GPT-4 and going beyond existing metrics that do not account for the educational use of such questions. Finally, we discuss the potential for using these automated methods to improve the quality of questions based on the identified flaws. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** In-IDE Generation-based Information Support with a Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08177  
**Abstract:** Developers often face challenges in code understanding, which is crucial for building and maintaining high-quality software systems. Code comments and documentation can provide some context for the code, but are often scarce or missing. This challenge has become even more pressing with the rise of large language model (LLM) based code generation tools. To understand unfamiliar code, most software developers rely on general-purpose search engines to search through various programming information resources, which often requires multiple iterations of query rewriting and information foraging. More recently, developers have turned to online chatbots powered by LLMs, such as ChatGPT, which can provide more customized responses but also incur more overhead as developers need to communicate a significant amount of context to the LLM via a textual interface. In this study, we provide the investigation of an LLM-based conversational UI in the IDE. We aim to understand the promises and obstacles for tools powered by LLMs that are contextually aware, in that they automatically leverage the developer's programming context to answer queries. To this end, we develop an IDE Plugin that allows users to query back-ends such as OpenAI's GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 with high-level requests, like: explaining a highlighted section of code, explaining key domain-specific terms, or providing usage examples for an API. We conduct an exploratory user study with 32 participants to understand the usefulness and effectiveness, as well as individual preferences in the usage of, this LLM-powered information support tool. The study confirms that this approach can aid code understanding more effectively than web search, but the degree of the benefit differed by participants' experience levels. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Mini-Giants: "Small" Language Models and Open Source Win-Win  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08189  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT is phenomenal. However, it is prohibitively expensive to train and refine such giant models. Fortunately, small language models are flourishing and becoming more and more competent. We call them "mini-giants". We argue that open source community like Kaggle and mini-giants will win-win in many ways, technically, ethically and socially. In this article, we present a brief yet rich background, discuss how to attain small language models, present a comparative study of small language models and a brief discussion of evaluation methods, discuss the application scenarios where small language models are most needed in the real world, and conclude with discussion and outlook. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Manifold-Guided Sampling in Diffusion Models for Unbiased Image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08199  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are a powerful class of generative models that can produce high-quality images, but they may suffer from data bias. Data bias occurs when the training data does not reflect the true distribution of the data domain, but rather exhibits some skewed or imbalanced patterns. For example, the CelebA dataset contains more female images than male images, which can lead to biased generation results and affect downstream applications. In this paper, we propose a novel method to mitigate data bias in diffusion models by applying manifold guidance. Our key idea is to estimate the manifold of the training data using a learnable information-theoretic approach, and then use it to guide the sampling process of diffusion models. In this way, we can encourage the generated images to be uniformly distributed on the data manifold, without changing the model architecture or requiring labels or retraining. We provide theoretical analysis and empirical evidence to show that our method can improve the quality and unbiasedness of image generation compared to standard diffusion models. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Identifying Vulnerable Third-Party Libraries from Textual Descriptions  of Vulnerabilities and Libraries  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08206  
**Abstract:** To avoid potential risks posed by vulnerabilities in third-party libraries, security researchers maintain databases containing vulnerability reports, e.g., the National Vulnerability Database (NVD). Application developers can identify vulnerable libraries by directly querying the databases with the name of each used library. However, the querying results of vulnerable libraries are not reliable due to the incompleteness of vulnerability reports. Thus, current approaches model the task of identifying vulnerable libraries as an extreme multi-label learning (XML) task. These approaches suffer from highly inaccurate results and cannot identify zero-shot libraries (i.e., those not appearing during model training). To address these limitations, in this paper, we propose the first entity-linking approach named VulLibMiner to identify vulnerable third-party libraries from textual descriptions of vulnerabilities and libraries, together with VulLib, a Java vulnerability dataset with vulnerability-affected libraries. VulLibMiner consists of a coarse-grained TF-IDF matcher to efficiently screen out a small set of candidate libraries and a fine-grained BERT-FNN model to identify vulnerable libraries from these candidates effectively. We evaluate VulLibMiner using two state-of-the-art/practice approaches of library identification (FastXML, LightXML) on both their dataset named VeraJava and our VulLib dataset. Our evaluation results show that VulLibMiner can effectively identify vulnerable libraries with an average F1 score of 0.542 while the state-of-the-art/practice approaches achieve only 0.377. We demonstrate VulLibMiner's high value of security practice by using VulLibMiner to identify 12,716 <vulnerability, library> pairs, and 7,936 of them do not appear in NVD. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** A Lightweight Framework for High-Quality Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08220  
**Abstract:** In recent years, the use of automated source code generation utilizing transformer-based generative models has expanded, and these models can generate functional code according to the requirements of the developers. However, recent research revealed that these automatically generated source codes can contain vulnerabilities and other quality issues. Despite researchers' and practitioners' attempts to enhance code generation models, retraining and fine-tuning large language models is time-consuming and resource-intensive. Thus, we describe FRANC, a lightweight framework for recommending more secure and high-quality source code derived from transformer-based code generation models. FRANC includes a static filter to make the generated code compilable with heuristics and a quality-aware ranker to sort the code snippets based on a quality score. Moreover, the framework uses prompt engineering to fix persistent quality issues. We evaluated the framework with five Python and Java code generation models and six prompt datasets, including a newly created one in this work (SOEval). The static filter improves 9% to 46% Java suggestions and 10% to 43% Python suggestions regarding compilability. The average improvement over the NDCG@10 score for the ranking system is 0.0763, and the repairing techniques repair the highest 80% of prompts. FRANC takes, on average, 1.98 seconds for Java; for Python, it takes 0.08 seconds. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Weak approximation for stochastic Reaction-diffusion equation near sharp  interface limit  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08241  
**Abstract:** It is known that when the diffuse interface thickness $\epsilon$ vanishes, the sharp interface limit of the stochastic reaction-diffusion equation is formally a stochastic geometric flow. To capture and simulate such geometric flow, it is crucial to develop numerical approximations whose error bounds depends on $\frac 1\epsilon$ polynomially. However, due to loss of spectral estimate of the linearized stochastic reaction-diffusion equation, how to get such error bound of numerical approximation has been an open problem. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Uncertainty-aware State Space Transformer for Egocentric 3D Hand  Trajectory Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08243  
**Abstract:** Hand trajectory forecasting from egocentric views is crucial for enabling a prompt understanding of human intentions when interacting with AR/VR systems. However, existing methods handle this problem in a 2D image space which is inadequate for 3D real-world applications. In this paper, we set up an egocentric 3D hand trajectory forecasting task that aims to predict hand trajectories in a 3D space from early observed RGB videos in a first-person view. To fulfill this goal, we propose an uncertainty-aware state space Transformer (USST) that takes the merits of the attention mechanism and aleatoric uncertainty within the framework of the classical state-space model. The model can be further enhanced by the velocity constraint and visual prompt tuning (VPT) on large vision transformers. Moreover, we develop an annotation workflow to collect 3D hand trajectories with high quality. Experimental results on H2O and EgoPAT3D datasets demonstrate the superiority of USST for both 2D and 3D trajectory forecasting. The code and datasets are publicly released: https://github.com/Cogito2012/USST. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Regularization effect of noise on fully discrete approximation for  stochastic reaction-diffusion equation near sharp interface limit  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08246  
**Abstract:** To capture and simulate geometric surface evolutions, one effective approach is based on the phase field methods. Among them, it is important to design and analyze numerical approximations whose error bound depends on the inverse of the diffuse interface thickness (denoted by $\frac 1\epsilon$) polynomially. However, it has been a long-standing problem whether such numerical error bound exists for stochastic phase field equations. In this paper, we utilize the regularization effect of noise to show that near sharp interface limit, there always exists the weak error bound of numerical approximations, which depends on $\frac 1\epsilon$ at most polynomially. To illustrate our strategy, we propose a polynomial taming fully discrete scheme and present novel numerical error bounds under various metrics. Our method of proof could be also extended to a number of other fully numerical approximations for semilinear stochastic partial differential equations (SPDEs). 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** PAT: Parallel Attention Transformer for Visual Question Answering in  Vietnamese  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08247  
**Abstract:** We present in this paper a novel scheme for multimodal learning named the Parallel Attention mechanism. In addition, to take into account the advantages of grammar and context in Vietnamese, we propose the Hierarchical Linguistic Features Extractor instead of using an LSTM network to extract linguistic features. Based on these two novel modules, we introduce the Parallel Attention Transformer (PAT), achieving the best accuracy compared to all baselines on the benchmark ViVQA dataset and other SOTA methods including SAAA and MCAN. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Random Boxes Are Open-world Object Detectors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08249  
**Abstract:** We show that classifiers trained with random region proposals achieve state-of-the-art Open-world Object Detection (OWOD): they can not only maintain the accuracy of the known objects (w/ training labels), but also considerably improve the recall of unknown ones (w/o training labels). Specifically, we propose RandBox, a Fast R-CNN based architecture trained on random proposals at each training iteration, surpassing existing Faster R-CNN and Transformer based OWOD. Its effectiveness stems from the following two benefits introduced by randomness. First, as the randomization is independent of the distribution of the limited known objects, the random proposals become the instrumental variable that prevents the training from being confounded by the known objects. Second, the unbiased training encourages more proposal explorations by using our proposed matching score that does not penalize the random proposals whose prediction scores do not match the known objects. On two benchmarks: Pascal-VOC/MS-COCO and LVIS, RandBox significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art in all metrics. We also detail the ablations on randomization and loss designs. Codes are available at https://github.com/scuwyh2000/RandBox. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Extending the Frontier of ChatGPT: Code Generation and Debugging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08260  
**Abstract:** Large-scale language models (LLMs) have emerged as a groundbreaking innovation in the realm of question-answering and conversational agents. These models, leveraging different deep learning architectures such as Transformers, are trained on vast corpora to predict sentences based on given queries. Among these LLMs, ChatGPT, developed by OpenAI, has ushered in a new era by utilizing artificial intelligence (AI) to tackle diverse problem domains, ranging from composing essays and biographies to solving intricate mathematical integrals. The versatile applications enabled by ChatGPT offer immense value to users. However, assessing the performance of ChatGPT's output poses a challenge, particularly in scenarios where queries lack clear objective criteria for correctness. For instance, evaluating the quality of generated essays becomes arduous and relies heavily on manual labor, in stark contrast to evaluating solutions to well-defined, closed-ended questions such as mathematical problems. This research paper delves into the efficacy of ChatGPT in solving programming problems, examining both the correctness and the efficiency of its solution in terms of time and memory complexity. The research reveals a commendable overall success rate of 71.875\%, denoting the proportion of problems for which ChatGPT was able to provide correct solutions that successfully satisfied all the test cases present in Leetcode. It exhibits strengths in structured problems and shows a linear correlation between its success rate and problem acceptance rates. However, it struggles to improve solutions based on feedback, pointing to potential shortcomings in debugging tasks. These findings provide a compact yet insightful glimpse into ChatGPT's capabilities and areas for improvement. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Team Badminseok at IJCAI CoachAI Badminton Challenge 2023: Multi-Layer  Multi-Input Transformer Network (MuLMINet) with Weighted Loss  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08262  
**Abstract:** The increasing use of artificial intelligence (AI) technology in turn-based sports, such as badminton, has sparked significant interest in evaluating strategies through the analysis of match video data. Predicting future shots based on past ones plays a vital role in coaching and strategic planning. In this study, we present a Multi-Layer Multi-Input Transformer Network (MuLMINet) that leverages professional badminton player match data to accurately predict future shot types and area coordinates. Our approach resulted in achieving the runner-up (2nd place) in the IJCAI CoachAI Badminton Challenge 2023, Track 2. To facilitate further research, we have made our code publicly accessible online, contributing to the broader research community's knowledge and advancements in the field of AI-assisted sports analysis. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Hierarchical Spatiotemporal Transformers for Video Object Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08263  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel framework called HST for semi-supervised video object segmentation (VOS). HST extracts image and video features using the latest Swin Transformer and Video Swin Transformer to inherit their inductive bias for the spatiotemporal locality, which is essential for temporally coherent VOS. To take full advantage of the image and video features, HST casts image and video features as a query and memory, respectively. By applying efficient memory read operations at multiple scales, HST produces hierarchical features for the precise reconstruction of object masks. HST shows effectiveness and robustness in handling challenging scenarios with occluded and fast-moving objects under cluttered backgrounds. In particular, HST-B outperforms the state-of-the-art competitors on multiple popular benchmarks, i.e., YouTube-VOS (85.0%), DAVIS 2017 (85.9%), and DAVIS 2016 (94.0%). 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** ChatGPT is Good but Bing Chat is Better for Vietnamese Students  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08272  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the performance of two large language models (LLMs), ChatGPT and Microsoft Bing Chat (BingChat), for Vietnamese students. While ChatGPT demonstrates competency in various subjects, Bing Chat emerges as the superior choice. We compare their performances across multiple subjects at high school level, including mathematics, literature, English, physics, chemistry, biology, history, geography, and civic education. Our findings indicate that BingChat surpasses ChatGPT in most subjects, except for literature where ChatGPT outperforms. Moreover, BingChat leverages the more advanced GPT-4 technology compared to ChatGPT based on GPT-3.5, leading to enhanced understanding and generation of creative and informative text. Furthermore, BingChat's availability in Vietnam and its incorporation of hyperlinks in answers further solidify its superiority. We conclude that while ChatGPT is commendable, Bing Chat offers a more comprehensive and advanced solution for Vietnamese students. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Complexity Matters: Rethinking the Latent Space for Generative Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08283  
**Abstract:** In generative modeling, numerous successful approaches leverage a low-dimensional latent space, e.g., Stable Diffusion models the latent space induced by an encoder and generates images through a paired decoder. Although the selection of the latent space is empirically pivotal, determining the optimal choice and the process of identifying it remain unclear. In this study, we aim to shed light on this under-explored topic by rethinking the latent space from the perspective of model complexity. Our investigation starts with the classic generative adversarial networks (GANs). Inspired by the GAN training objective, we propose a novel "distance" between the latent and data distributions, whose minimization coincides with that of the generator complexity. The minimizer of this distance is characterized as the optimal data-dependent latent that most effectively capitalizes on the generator's capacity. Then, we consider parameterizing such a latent distribution by an encoder network and propose a two-stage training strategy called Decoupled Autoencoder (DAE), where the encoder is only updated in the first stage with an auxiliary decoder and then frozen in the second stage while the actual decoder is being trained. DAE can improve the latent distribution and as a result, improve the generative performance. Our theoretical analyses are corroborated by comprehensive experiments on various models such as VQGAN and Diffusion Transformer, where our modifications yield significant improvements in sample quality with decreased model complexity. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** CoAD: Automatic Diagnosis through Symptom and Disease Collaborative  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08290  
**Abstract:** Automatic diagnosis (AD), a critical application of AI in healthcare, employs machine learning techniques to assist doctors in gathering patient symptom information for precise disease diagnosis. The Transformer-based method utilizes an input symptom sequence, predicts itself through auto-regression, and employs the hidden state of the final symptom to determine the disease. Despite its simplicity and superior performance demonstrated, a decline in disease diagnosis accuracy is observed caused by 1) a mismatch between symptoms observed during training and generation, and 2) the effect of different symptom orders on disease prediction. To address the above obstacles, we introduce the CoAD, a novel disease and symptom collaborative generation framework, which incorporates several key innovations to improve AD: 1) aligning sentence-level disease labels with multiple possible symptom inquiry steps to bridge the gap between training and generation; 2) expanding symptom labels for each sub-sequence of symptoms to enhance annotation and eliminate the effect of symptom order; 3) developing a repeated symptom input schema to effectively and efficiently learn the expanded disease and symptom labels. We evaluate the CoAD framework using four datasets, including three public and one private, and demonstrate that it achieves an average 2.3% improvement over previous state-of-the-art results in automatic disease diagnosis. For reproducibility, we release the code and data at https://github.com/KwanWaiChung/coad. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** GBT: Two-stage transformer framework for non-stationary time series  forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08302  
**Abstract:** This paper shows that time series forecasting Transformer (TSFT) suffers from severe over-fitting problem caused by improper initialization method of unknown decoder inputs, esp. when handling non-stationary time series. Based on this observation, we propose GBT, a novel two-stage Transformer framework with Good Beginning. It decouples the prediction process of TSFT into two stages, including Auto-Regression stage and Self-Regression stage to tackle the problem of different statistical properties between input and prediction sequences.Prediction results of Auto-Regression stage serve as a Good Beginning, i.e., a better initialization for inputs of Self-Regression stage. We also propose Error Score Modification module to further enhance the forecasting capability of the Self-Regression stage in GBT. Extensive experiments on seven benchmark datasets demonstrate that GBT outperforms SOTA TSFTs (FEDformer, Pyraformer, ETSformer, etc.) and many other forecasting models (SCINet, N-HiTS, etc.) with only canonical attention and convolution while owning less time and space complexity. It is also general enough to couple with these models to strengthen their forecasting capability. The source code is available at: https://github.com/OrigamiSL/GBT 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Legal Syllogism Prompting: Teaching Large Language Models for Legal  Judgment Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08321  
**Abstract:** Legal syllogism is a form of deductive reasoning commonly used by legal professionals to analyze cases. In this paper, we propose legal syllogism prompting (LoT), a simple prompting method to teach large language models (LLMs) for legal judgment prediction. LoT teaches only that in the legal syllogism the major premise is law, the minor premise is the fact, and the conclusion is judgment. Then the models can produce a syllogism reasoning of the case and give the judgment without any learning, fine-tuning, or examples. On CAIL2018, a Chinese criminal case dataset, we performed zero-shot judgment prediction experiments with GPT-3 models. Our results show that LLMs with LoT achieve better performance than the baseline and chain of thought prompting, the state-of-art prompting method on diverse reasoning tasks. LoT enables the model to concentrate on the key information relevant to the judgment and to correctly understand the legal meaning of acts, as compared to other methods. Our method enables LLMs to predict judgment along with law articles and justification, which significantly enhances the explainability of models. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** On the application of Large Language Models for language teaching and  assessment technology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08393  
**Abstract:** The recent release of very large language models such as PaLM and GPT-4 has made an unprecedented impact in the popular media and public consciousness, giving rise to a mixture of excitement and fear as to their capabilities and potential uses, and shining a light on natural language processing research which had not previously received so much attention. The developments offer great promise for education technology, and in this paper we look specifically at the potential for incorporating large language models in AI-driven language teaching and assessment systems. We consider several research areas and also discuss the risks and ethical considerations surrounding generative AI in education technology for language learners. Overall we find that larger language models offer improvements over previous models in text generation, opening up routes toward content generation which had not previously been plausible. For text generation they must be prompted carefully and their outputs may need to be reshaped before they are ready for use. For automated grading and grammatical error correction, tasks whose progress is checked on well-known benchmarks, early investigations indicate that large language models on their own do not improve on state-of-the-art results according to standard evaluation metrics. For grading it appears that linguistic features established in the literature should still be used for best performance, and for error correction it may be that the models can offer alternative feedback styles which are not measured sensitively with existing methods. In all cases, there is work to be done to experiment with the inclusion of large language models in education technology for language learners, in order to properly understand and report on their capacities and limitations, and to ensure that foreseeable risks such as misinformation and harmful bias are mitigated. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** CLIP-Guided StyleGAN Inversion for Text-Driven Real Image Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08397  
**Abstract:** Researchers have recently begun exploring the use of StyleGAN-based models for real image editing. One particularly interesting application is using natural language descriptions to guide the editing process. Existing approaches for editing images using language either resort to instance-level latent code optimization or map predefined text prompts to some editing directions in the latent space. However, these approaches have inherent limitations. The former is not very efficient, while the latter often struggles to effectively handle multi-attribute changes. To address these weaknesses, we present CLIPInverter, a new text-driven image editing approach that is able to efficiently and reliably perform multi-attribute changes. The core of our method is the use of novel, lightweight text-conditioned adapter layers integrated into pretrained GAN-inversion networks. We demonstrate that by conditioning the initial inversion step on the CLIP embedding of the target description, we are able to obtain more successful edit directions. Additionally, we use a CLIP-guided refinement step to make corrections in the resulting residual latent codes, which further improves the alignment with the text prompt. Our method outperforms competing approaches in terms of manipulation accuracy and photo-realism on various domains including human faces, cats, and birds, as shown by our qualitative and quantitative results. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** An Indefensible Attack: Label-Only Model Inversion via Conditional  Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08424  
**Abstract:** Model inversion attacks (MIAs) are aimed at recovering private data from a target model's training set, which poses a threat to the privacy of deep learning models. MIAs primarily focus on the white-box scenario where the attacker has full access to the structure and parameters of the target model. However, practical applications are black-box, it is not easy for adversaries to obtain model-related parameters, and various models only output predicted labels. Existing black-box MIAs primarily focused on designing the optimization strategy, and the generative model is only migrated from the GAN used in white-box MIA. Our research is the pioneering study of feasible attack models in label-only black-box scenarios, to the best of our knowledge. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Not All Steps are Created Equal: Selective Diffusion Distillation for  Image Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08448  
**Abstract:** Conditional diffusion models have demonstrated impressive performance in image manipulation tasks. The general pipeline involves adding noise to the image and then denoising it. However, this method faces a trade-off problem: adding too much noise affects the fidelity of the image while adding too little affects its editability. This largely limits their practical applicability. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, Selective Diffusion Distillation (SDD), that ensures both the fidelity and editability of images. Instead of directly editing images with a diffusion model, we train a feedforward image manipulation network under the guidance of the diffusion model. Besides, we propose an effective indicator to select the semantic-related timestep to obtain the correct semantic guidance from the diffusion model. This approach successfully avoids the dilemma caused by the diffusion process. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the advantages of our framework. Code is released at https://github.com/AndysonYs/Selective-Diffusion-Distillation. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** BUS:Efficient and Effective Vision-language Pre-training with Bottom-Up  Patch Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08504  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformer (ViT) based Vision-Language Pre-training (VLP) models have demonstrated impressive performance in various tasks. However, the lengthy visual token sequences fed into ViT can lead to training inefficiency and ineffectiveness. Existing efforts address the challenge by either bottom-level patch extraction in the ViT backbone or top-level patch abstraction outside, not balancing training efficiency and effectiveness well. Inspired by text summarization in natural language processing, we propose a Bottom-Up Patch Summarization approach named BUS, coordinating bottom-level extraction and top-level abstraction to learn a concise summary of lengthy visual token sequences efficiently. Specifically, We incorporate a Text-Semantics-Aware Patch Selector (TSPS) into the ViT backbone to perform a coarse-grained visual token extraction and then attach a flexible Transformer-based Patch Abstraction Decoder (PAD) upon the backbone for top-level visual abstraction. This bottom-up collaboration enables our BUS to yield high training efficiency while maintaining or even improving effectiveness. We evaluate our approach on various visual-language understanding and generation tasks and show competitive downstream task performance while boosting the training efficiency by 50\%. Additionally, our model achieves state-of-the-art performance on many downstream tasks by increasing input image resolution without increasing computational costs over baselines. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Does Visual Pretraining Help End-to-End Reasoning?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08506  
**Abstract:** We aim to investigate whether end-to-end learning of visual reasoning can be achieved with general-purpose neural networks, with the help of visual pretraining. A positive result would refute the common belief that explicit visual abstraction (e.g. object detection) is essential for compositional generalization on visual reasoning, and confirm the feasibility of a neural network "generalist" to solve visual recognition and reasoning tasks. We propose a simple and general self-supervised framework which "compresses" each video frame into a small set of tokens with a transformer network, and reconstructs the remaining frames based on the compressed temporal context. To minimize the reconstruction loss, the network must learn a compact representation for each image, as well as capture temporal dynamics and object permanence from temporal context. We perform evaluation on two visual reasoning benchmarks, CATER and ACRE. We observe that pretraining is essential to achieve compositional generalization for end-to-end visual reasoning. Our proposed framework outperforms traditional supervised pretraining, including image classification and explicit object detection, by large margins. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Scale-Aware Modulation Meet Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08579  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a new vision Transformer, Scale-Aware Modulation Transformer (SMT), that can handle various downstream tasks efficiently by combining the convolutional network and vision Transformer. The proposed Scale-Aware Modulation (SAM) in the SMT includes two primary novel designs. Firstly, we introduce the Multi-Head Mixed Convolution (MHMC) module, which can capture multi-scale features and expand the receptive field. Secondly, we propose the Scale-Aware Aggregation (SAA) module, which is lightweight but effective, enabling information fusion across different heads. By leveraging these two modules, convolutional modulation is further enhanced. Furthermore, in contrast to prior works that utilized modulations throughout all stages to build an attention-free network, we propose an Evolutionary Hybrid Network (EHN), which can effectively simulate the shift from capturing local to global dependencies as the network becomes deeper, resulting in superior performance. Extensive experiments demonstrate that SMT significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art models across a wide range of visual tasks. Specifically, SMT with 11.5M / 2.4GFLOPs and 32M / 7.7GFLOPs can achieve 82.2% and 84.3% top-1 accuracy on ImageNet-1K, respectively. After pretrained on ImageNet-22K in 224^2 resolution, it attains 87.1% and 88.1% top-1 accuracy when finetuned with resolution 224^2 and 384^2, respectively. For object detection with Mask R-CNN, the SMT base trained with 1x and 3x schedule outperforms the Swin Transformer counterpart by 4.2 and 1.3 mAP on COCO, respectively. For semantic segmentation with UPerNet, the SMT base test at single- and multi-scale surpasses Swin by 2.0 and 1.1 mIoU respectively on the ADE20K. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Identity-Preserving Aging of Face Images via Latent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08585  
**Abstract:** The performance of automated face recognition systems is inevitably impacted by the facial aging process. However, high quality datasets of individuals collected over several years are typically small in scale. In this work, we propose, train, and validate the use of latent text-to-image diffusion models for synthetically aging and de-aging face images. Our models succeed with few-shot training, and have the added benefit of being controllable via intuitive textual prompting. We observe high degrees of visual realism in the generated images while maintaining biometric fidelity measured by commonly used metrics. We evaluate our method on two benchmark datasets (CelebA and AgeDB) and observe significant reduction (~44%) in the False Non-Match Rate compared to existing state-of the-art baselines. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Multimodal Diffusion Segmentation Model for Object Segmentation from  Manipulation Instructions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08597  
**Abstract:** In this study, we aim to develop a model that comprehends a natural language instruction (e.g., "Go to the living room and get the nearest pillow to the radio art on the wall") and generates a segmentation mask for the target everyday object. The task is challenging because it requires (1) the understanding of the referring expressions for multiple objects in the instruction, (2) the prediction of the target phrase of the sentence among the multiple phrases, and (3) the generation of pixel-wise segmentation masks rather than bounding boxes. Studies have been conducted on languagebased segmentation methods; however, they sometimes mask irrelevant regions for complex sentences. In this paper, we propose the Multimodal Diffusion Segmentation Model (MDSM), which generates a mask in the first stage and refines it in the second stage. We introduce a crossmodal parallel feature extraction mechanism and extend diffusion probabilistic models to handle crossmodal features. To validate our model, we built a new dataset based on the well-known Matterport3D and REVERIE datasets. This dataset consists of instructions with complex referring expressions accompanied by real indoor environmental images that feature various target objects, in addition to pixel-wise segmentation masks. The performance of MDSM surpassed that of the baseline method by a large margin of +10.13 mean IoU. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Retentive Network: A Successor to Transformer for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08621  
**Abstract:** In this work, we propose Retentive Network (RetNet) as a foundation architecture for large language models, simultaneously achieving training parallelism, low-cost inference, and good performance. We theoretically derive the connection between recurrence and attention. Then we propose the retention mechanism for sequence modeling, which supports three computation paradigms, i.e., parallel, recurrent, and chunkwise recurrent. Specifically, the parallel representation allows for training parallelism. The recurrent representation enables low-cost $O(1)$ inference, which improves decoding throughput, latency, and GPU memory without sacrificing performance. The chunkwise recurrent representation facilitates efficient long-sequence modeling with linear complexity, where each chunk is encoded parallelly while recurrently summarizing the chunks. Experimental results on language modeling show that RetNet achieves favorable scaling results, parallel training, low-cost deployment, and efficient inference. The intriguing properties make RetNet a strong successor to Transformer for large language models. Code will be available at https://aka.ms/retnet. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Deficiency-Aware Masked Transformer for Video Inpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08629  
**Abstract:** Recent video inpainting methods have made remarkable progress by utilizing explicit guidance, such as optical flow, to propagate cross-frame pixels. However, there are cases where cross-frame recurrence of the masked video is not available, resulting in a deficiency. In such situation, instead of borrowing pixels from other frames, the focus of the model shifts towards addressing the inverse problem. In this paper, we introduce a dual-modality-compatible inpainting framework called Deficiency-aware Masked Transformer (DMT), which offers three key advantages. Firstly, we pretrain a image inpainting model DMT_img serve as a prior for distilling the video model DMT_vid, thereby benefiting the hallucination of deficiency cases. Secondly, the self-attention module selectively incorporates spatiotemporal tokens to accelerate inference and remove noise signals. Thirdly, a simple yet effective Receptive Field Contextualizer is integrated into DMT, further improving performance. Extensive experiments conducted on YouTube-VOS and DAVIS datasets demonstrate that DMT_vid significantly outperforms previous solutions. The code and video demonstrations can be found at github.com/yeates/DMT. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** COLLIE: Systematic Construction of Constrained Text Generation Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08689  
**Abstract:** Text generation under constraints have seen increasing interests in natural language processing, especially with the rapidly improving capabilities of large language models. However, existing benchmarks for constrained generation usually focus on fixed constraint types (e.g.,generate a sentence containing certain words) that have proved to be easy for state-of-the-art models like GPT-4. We present COLLIE, a grammar-based framework that allows the specification of rich, compositional constraints with diverse generation levels (word, sentence, paragraph, passage) and modeling challenges (e.g.,language understanding, logical reasoning, counting, semantic planning). We also develop tools for automatic extraction of task instances given a constraint structure and a raw text corpus. Using COLLIE, we compile the COLLIE-v1 dataset with 2080 instances comprising 13 constraint structures. We perform systematic experiments across five state-of-the-art instruction-tuned language models and analyze their performances to reveal shortcomings. COLLIE is designed to be extensible and lightweight, and we hope the community finds it useful to develop more complex constraints and evaluations in the future. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** FlashAttention-2: Faster Attention with Better Parallelism and Work  Partitioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08691  
**Abstract:** Scaling Transformers to longer sequence lengths has been a major problem in the last several years, promising to improve performance in language modeling and high-resolution image understanding, as well as to unlock new applications in code, audio, and video generation. The attention layer is the main bottleneck in scaling to longer sequences, as its runtime and memory increase quadratically in the sequence length. FlashAttention exploits the asymmetric GPU memory hierarchy to bring significant memory saving (linear instead of quadratic) and runtime speedup (2-4$\times$ compared to optimized baselines), with no approximation. However, FlashAttention is still not nearly as fast as optimized matrix-multiply (GEMM) operations, reaching only 25-40\% of the theoretical maximum FLOPs/s. We observe that the inefficiency is due to suboptimal work partitioning between different thread blocks and warps on the GPU, causing either low-occupancy or unnecessary shared memory reads/writes. We propose FlashAttention-2, with better work partitioning to address these issues. In particular, we (1) tweak the algorithm to reduce the number of non-matmul FLOPs (2) parallelize the attention computation, even for a single head, across different thread blocks to increase occupancy, and (3) within each thread block, distribute the work between warps to reduce communication through shared memory. These yield around 2$\times$ speedup compared to FlashAttention, reaching 50-73\% of the theoretical maximum FLOPs/s on A100 and getting close to the efficiency of GEMM operations. We empirically validate that when used end-to-end to train GPT-style models, FlashAttention-2 reaches training speed of up to 225 TFLOPs/s per A100 GPU (72\% model FLOPs utilization). 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** SEMI-DiffusionInst: A Diffusion Model Based Approach for Semiconductor  Defect Classification and Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08693  
**Abstract:** With continuous progression of Moore's Law, integrated circuit (IC) device complexity is also increasing. Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) image based extensive defect inspection and accurate metrology extraction are two main challenges in advanced node (2 nm and beyond) technology. Deep learning (DL) algorithm based computer vision approaches gained popularity in semiconductor defect inspection over last few years. In this research work, a new semiconductor defect inspection framework "SEMI-DiffusionInst" is investigated and compared to previous frameworks. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this work is the first demonstration to accurately detect and precisely segment semiconductor defect patterns by using a diffusion model. Different feature extractor networks as backbones and data sampling strategies are investigated towards achieving a balanced trade-off between precision and computing efficiency. Our proposed approach outperforms previous work on overall mAP and performs comparatively better or as per for almost all defect classes (per class APs). The bounding box and segmentation mAPs achieved by the proposed SEMI-DiffusionInst model are improved by 3.83% and 2.10%,respectively. Among individual defect types, precision on line collapse and thin bridge defects are improved approximately 15% on detection task for both defect types. It has also been shown that by tuning inference hyperparameters, inference time can be improved significantly without compromising model precision. Finally, certain limitations and future work strategy to overcome them are discussed. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Flow Matching in Latent Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08698  
**Abstract:** Flow matching is a recent framework to train generative models that exhibits impressive empirical performance while being relatively easier to train compared with diffusion-based models. Despite its advantageous properties, prior methods still face the challenges of expensive computing and a large number of function evaluations of off-the-shelf solvers in the pixel space. Furthermore, although latent-based generative methods have shown great success in recent years, this particular model type remains underexplored in this area. In this work, we propose to apply flow matching in the latent spaces of pretrained autoencoders, which offers improved computational efficiency and scalability for high-resolution image synthesis. This enables flow-matching training on constrained computational resources while maintaining their quality and flexibility. Additionally, our work stands as a pioneering contribution in the integration of various conditions into flow matching for conditional generation tasks, including label-conditioned image generation, image inpainting, and semantic-to-image generation. Through extensive experiments, our approach demonstrates its effectiveness in both quantitative and qualitative results on various datasets, such as CelebA-HQ, FFHQ, LSUN Church & Bedroom, and ImageNet. We also provide a theoretical control of the Wasserstein-2 distance between the reconstructed latent flow distribution and true data distribution, showing it is upper-bounded by the latent flow matching objective. Our code will be available at https://github.com/VinAIResearch/LFM.git. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Fast model inference and training on-board of Satellites  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08700  
**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence onboard satellites has the potential to reduce data transmission requirements, enable real-time decision-making and collaboration within constellations. This study deploys a lightweight foundational model called RaVAEn on D-Orbit's ION SCV004 satellite. RaVAEn is a variational auto-encoder (VAE) that generates compressed latent vectors from small image tiles, enabling several downstream tasks. In this work we demonstrate the reliable use of RaVAEn onboard a satellite, achieving an encoding time of 0.110s for tiles of a 4.8x4.8 km$^2$ area. In addition, we showcase fast few-shot training onboard a satellite using the latent representation of data. We compare the deployment of the model on the on-board CPU and on the available Myriad vision processing unit (VPU) accelerator. To our knowledge, this work shows for the first time the deployment of a multi-task model on-board a CubeSat and the on-board training of a machine learning model. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** AlpaGasus: Training A Better Alpaca with Fewer Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08701  
**Abstract:** Large language models~(LLMs) obtain instruction-following capability through instruction-finetuning (IFT) on supervised instruction/response data. However, widely used IFT datasets (e.g., Alpaca's 52k data) surprisingly contain many low-quality instances with incorrect or irrelevant responses, which are misleading and detrimental to IFT. In this paper, we propose a simple and effective data selection strategy that automatically identifies and removes low-quality data using a strong LLM (e.g., ChatGPT). To this end, we introduce AlpaGasus, which is finetuned on only 9k high-quality data filtered from the 52k Alpaca data. AlpaGasus significantly outperforms the original Alpaca as evaluated by GPT-4 on multiple test sets and its 13B variant matches $>90\%$ performance of its teacher LLM (i.e., Text-Davinci-003) on test tasks. It also provides 5.7x faster training, reducing the training time for a 7B variant from 80 minutes (for Alpaca) to 14 minutes \footnote{We apply IFT for the same number of epochs as Alpaca(7B) but on fewer data, using 4$\times$NVIDIA A100 (80GB) GPUs and following the original Alpaca setting and hyperparameters.}. Overall, AlpaGasus demonstrates a novel data-centric IFT paradigm that can be generally applied to instruction-tuning data, leading to faster training and better instruction-following models. Our project page is available at: \url{https://lichang-chen.github.io/AlpaGasus/}. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Diffusion Models Beat GANs on Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08702  
**Abstract:** While many unsupervised learning models focus on one family of tasks, either generative or discriminative, we explore the possibility of a unified representation learner: a model which uses a single pre-training stage to address both families of tasks simultaneously. We identify diffusion models as a prime candidate. Diffusion models have risen to prominence as a state-of-the-art method for image generation, denoising, inpainting, super-resolution, manipulation, etc. Such models involve training a U-Net to iteratively predict and remove noise, and the resulting model can synthesize high fidelity, diverse, novel images. The U-Net architecture, as a convolution-based architecture, generates a diverse set of feature representations in the form of intermediate feature maps. We present our findings that these embeddings are useful beyond the noise prediction task, as they contain discriminative information and can also be leveraged for classification. We explore optimal methods for extracting and using these embeddings for classification tasks, demonstrating promising results on the ImageNet classification task. We find that with careful feature selection and pooling, diffusion models outperform comparable generative-discriminative methods such as BigBiGAN for classification tasks. We investigate diffusion models in the transfer learning regime, examining their performance on several fine-grained visual classification datasets. We compare these embeddings to those generated by competing architectures and pre-trainings for classification tasks. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Translating Latin with Artificial Intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.07520  
**Abstract:** The major hindrance in the study of earlier scientific literature is the availability of Latin translations into modern languages. This is particular true for the works of Euler who authored about 850 manuscripts and wrote a thousand letters and received back almost two thousand more. The translation of many of these manuscripts, books and letters have been published in various sources over the last two centuries, but many more have not yet appeared. Fortunately, nowadays, the artificial intelligence AI translation can be used to circumvent the challenges of translating such substantial number of texts. To validate this tool, benchmark tests have been performed to compare the performance of two popular AI translating algorithms, namely Google Translate and ChatGPT. Since it was found that ChatGPT performed better on these tests, this translating support was then used on an excerpt of a 1739 letter from Johann Bernoulli to Euler, where he notifies that he was sending to Euler the first part of his manuscript Hydraulica. The findings highlight ChatGPT as a valuable translation tool, catering not only to general Latin practitioners but also proving beneficial for specialized Latin translators. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** Noise-aware Speech Enhancement using Diffusion Probabilistic Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08029  
**Abstract:** With recent advances of diffusion model, generative speech enhancement (SE) has attracted a surge of research interest due to its great potential for unseen testing noises. However, existing efforts mainly focus on inherent properties of clean speech for inference, underexploiting the varying noise information in real-world conditions. In this paper, we propose a noise-aware speech enhancement (NASE) approach that extracts noise-specific information to guide the reverse process in diffusion model. Specifically, we design a noise classification (NC) model to produce acoustic embedding as a noise conditioner for guiding the reverse denoising process. Meanwhile, a multi-task learning scheme is devised to jointly optimize SE and NC tasks, in order to enhance the noise specificity of extracted noise conditioner. Our proposed NASE is shown to be a plug-and-play module that can be generalized to any diffusion SE models. Experiment evidence on VoiceBank-DEMAND dataset shows that NASE achieves significant improvement over multiple mainstream diffusion SE models, especially on unseen testing noises. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** TransNuSeg: A Lightweight Multi-Task Transformer for Nuclei Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08051  
**Abstract:** Nuclei appear small in size, yet, in real clinical practice, the global spatial information and correlation of the color or brightness contrast between nuclei and background, have been considered a crucial component for accurate nuclei segmentation. However, the field of automatic nuclei segmentation is dominated by Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), meanwhile, the potential of the recently prevalent Transformers has not been fully explored, which is powerful in capturing local-global correlations. To this end, we make the first attempt at a pure Transformer framework for nuclei segmentation, called TransNuSeg. Different from prior work, we decouple the challenging nuclei segmentation task into an intrinsic multi-task learning task, where a tri-decoder structure is employed for nuclei instance, nuclei edge, and clustered edge segmentation respectively. To eliminate the divergent predictions from different branches in previous work, a novel self distillation loss is introduced to explicitly impose consistency regulation between branches. Moreover, to formulate the high correlation between branches and also reduce the number of parameters, an efficient attention sharing scheme is proposed by partially sharing the self-attention heads amongst the tri-decoders. Finally, a token MLP bottleneck replaces the over-parameterized Transformer bottleneck for a further reduction in model complexity. Experiments on two datasets of different modalities, including MoNuSeg have shown that our methods can outperform state-of-the-art counterparts such as CA2.5-Net by 2-3% Dice with 30% fewer parameters. In conclusion, TransNuSeg confirms the strength of Transformer in the context of nuclei segmentation, which thus can serve as an efficient solution for real clinical practice. Code is available at https://github.com/zhenqi-he/transnuseg. 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** Liver Tumor Screening and Diagnosis in CT with Pixel-Lesion-Patient  Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08268  
**Abstract:** Liver tumor segmentation and classification are important tasks in computer aided diagnosis. We aim to address three problems: liver tumor screening and preliminary diagnosis in non-contrast computed tomography (CT), and differential diagnosis in dynamic contrast-enhanced CT. A novel framework named Pixel-Lesion-pAtient Network (PLAN) is proposed. It uses a mask transformer to jointly segment and classify each lesion with improved anchor queries and a foreground-enhanced sampling loss. It also has an image-wise classifier to effectively aggregate global information and predict patient-level diagnosis. A large-scale multi-phase dataset is collected containing 939 tumor patients and 810 normal subjects. 4010 tumor instances of eight types are extensively annotated. On the non-contrast tumor screening task, PLAN achieves 95% and 96% in patient-level sensitivity and specificity. On contrast-enhanced CT, our lesion-level detection precision, recall, and classification accuracy are 92%, 89%, and 86%, outperforming widely used CNN and transformers for lesion segmentation. We also conduct a reader study on a holdout set of 250 cases. PLAN is on par with a senior human radiologist, showing the clinical significance of our results. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** Combiner and HyperCombiner Networks: Rules to Combine Multimodality MR  Images for Prostate Cancer Localisation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08279  
**Abstract:** One of the distinct characteristics in radiologists' reading of multiparametric prostate MR scans, using reporting systems such as PI-RADS v2.1, is to score individual types of MR modalities, T2-weighted, diffusion-weighted, and dynamic contrast-enhanced, and then combine these image-modality-specific scores using standardised decision rules to predict the likelihood of clinically significant cancer. This work aims to demonstrate that it is feasible for low-dimensional parametric models to model such decision rules in the proposed Combiner networks, without compromising the accuracy of predicting radiologic labels: First, it is shown that either a linear mixture model or a nonlinear stacking model is sufficient to model PI-RADS decision rules for localising prostate cancer. Second, parameters of these (generalised) linear models are proposed as hyperparameters, to weigh multiple networks that independently represent individual image modalities in the Combiner network training, as opposed to end-to-end modality ensemble. A HyperCombiner network is developed to train a single image segmentation network that can be conditioned on these hyperparameters during inference, for much improved efficiency. Experimental results based on data from 850 patients, for the application of automating radiologist labelling multi-parametric MR, compare the proposed combiner networks with other commonly-adopted end-to-end networks. Using the added advantages of obtaining and interpreting the modality combining rules, in terms of the linear weights or odds-ratios on individual image modalities, three clinical applications are presented for prostate cancer segmentation, including modality availability assessment, importance quantification and rule discovery. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** EGE-UNet: an Efficient Group Enhanced UNet for skin lesion segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08473  
**Abstract:** Transformer and its variants have been widely used for medical image segmentation. However, the large number of parameter and computational load of these models make them unsuitable for mobile health applications. To address this issue, we propose a more efficient approach, the Efficient Group Enhanced UNet (EGE-UNet). We incorporate a Group multi-axis Hadamard Product Attention module (GHPA) and a Group Aggregation Bridge module (GAB) in a lightweight manner. The GHPA groups input features and performs Hadamard Product Attention mechanism (HPA) on different axes to extract pathological information from diverse perspectives. The GAB effectively fuses multi-scale information by grouping low-level features, high-level features, and a mask generated by the decoder at each stage. Comprehensive experiments on the ISIC2017 and ISIC2018 datasets demonstrate that EGE-UNet outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods. In short, compared to the TransFuse, our model achieves superior segmentation performance while reducing parameter and computation costs by 494x and 160x, respectively. Moreover, to our best knowledge, this is the first model with a parameter count limited to just 50KB. Our code is available at https://github.com/JCruan519/EGE-UNet. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** A Study on the Performance of Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT)  in Simulating Depressed Individuals on the Standardized Depressive Symptom  Scale  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08576  
**Abstract:** Background: Depression is a common mental disorder with societal and economic burden. Current diagnosis relies on self-reports and assessment scales, which have reliability issues. Objective approaches are needed for diagnosing depression. Objective: Evaluate the potential of GPT technology in diagnosing depression. Assess its ability to simulate individuals with depression and investigate the influence of depression scales. Methods: Three depression-related assessment tools (HAMD-17, SDS, GDS-15) were used. Two experiments simulated GPT responses to normal individuals and individuals with depression. Compare GPT's responses with expected results, assess its understanding of depressive symptoms, and performance differences under different conditions. Results: GPT's performance in depression assessment was evaluated. It aligned with scoring criteria for both individuals with depression and normal individuals. Some performance differences were observed based on depression severity. GPT performed better on scales with higher sensitivity. Conclusion: GPT accurately simulates individuals with depression and normal individuals during depression-related assessments. Deviations occur when simulating different degrees of depression, limiting understanding of mild and moderate cases. GPT performs better on scales with higher sensitivity, indicating potential for developing more effective depression scales. GPT has important potential in depression assessment, supporting clinicians and patients. 

