**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Imposing Consistency Properties on Blackbox Systems with Applications to  SVD-Based Recommender Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08760  
**Abstract:** In this paper we discuss pre- and post-processing methods to induce desired consistency and/or invariance properties in blackbox systems, e.g., AI-based. We demonstrate our approach in the context of blackbox SVD-based matrix-completion methods commonly used in recommender system (RS) applications. We provide empirical results showing that enforcement of unit-consistency and shift-consistency, which have provable RS-relevant properties relating to robustness and fairness, also lead to improved performance according to generic RMSE and MAE performance metrics, irrespective of the initial chosen hyperparameter. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** A mixed policy to improve performance of language models on math  problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08767  
**Abstract:** When to solve math problems, most language models take a sampling strategy to predict next word according conditional probabilities. In the math reasoning step, it may generate wrong answer. Considering math problems are deterministic, we propose a mixed policy exploration approach to solve math problems with reinforcement learning. In peculiar, we propose a two level token exploration policy: the abstract level explores next token with probability and the second level is deterministic. Specifically, the abstract level policy will decide whether the token is operator or operand with probability sampling, while the second level is deterministic to select next token with the highest score in a greedy way. We test our method on GSM8K dataset with GPT-2 model, and demonstrate more than $2\%$ performance gain. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/vividitytech/math_lm_rl. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** GEAR: Augmenting Language Models with Generalizable and Efficient Tool  Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08775  
**Abstract:** Augmenting large language models (LLM) to use external tools enhances their performance across a variety of tasks. However, prior works over-rely on task-specific demonstration of tool use that limits their generalizability and computational cost due to making many calls to large-scale LLMs. We introduce GEAR, a computationally efficient query-tool grounding algorithm that is generalizable to various tasks that require tool use while not relying on task-specific demonstrations. GEAR achieves better efficiency by delegating tool grounding and execution to small language models (SLM) and LLM, respectively; while leveraging semantic and pattern-based evaluation at both question and answer levels for generalizable tool grounding. We evaluate GEAR on 14 datasets across 6 downstream tasks, demonstrating its strong generalizability to novel tasks, tools and different SLMs. Despite offering more efficiency, GEAR achieves higher precision in tool grounding compared to prior strategies using LLM prompting, thus improving downstream accuracy at a reduced computational cost. For example, we demonstrate that GEAR-augmented GPT-J and GPT-3 outperform counterpart tool-augmented baselines because of better tool use. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** DARTS: Double Attention Reference-based Transformer for Super-resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08837  
**Abstract:** We present DARTS, a transformer model for reference-based image super-resolution. DARTS learns joint representations of two image distributions to enhance the content of low-resolution input images through matching correspondences learned from high-resolution reference images. Current state-of-the-art techniques in reference-based image super-resolution are based on a multi-network, multi-stage architecture. In this work, we adapt the double attention block from the GAN literature, processing the two visual streams separately and combining self-attention and cross-attention blocks through a gating attention strategy. Our work demonstrates how the attention mechanism can be adapted for the particular requirements of reference-based image super-resolution, significantly simplifying the architecture and training pipeline. We show that our transformer-based model performs competitively with state-of-the-art models, while maintaining a simpler overall architecture and training process. In particular, we obtain state-of-the-art on the SUN80 dataset, with a PSNR/SSIM of 29.83 / .809. These results show that attention alone is sufficient for the RSR task, without multiple purpose-built subnetworks, knowledge distillation, or multi-stage training. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Autoregressive Diffusion Model for Graph Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08849  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based graph generative models have recently obtained promising results for graph generation. However, existing diffusion-based graph generative models are mostly one-shot generative models that apply Gaussian diffusion in the dequantized adjacency matrix space. Such a strategy can suffer from difficulty in model training, slow sampling speed, and incapability of incorporating constraints. We propose an \emph{autoregressive diffusion} model for graph generation. Unlike existing methods, we define a node-absorbing diffusion process that operates directly in the discrete graph space. For forward diffusion, we design a \emph{diffusion ordering network}, which learns a data-dependent node absorbing ordering from graph topology. For reverse generation, we design a \emph{denoising network} that uses the reverse node ordering to efficiently reconstruct the graph by predicting the node type of the new node and its edges with previously denoised nodes at a time. Based on the permutation invariance of graph, we show that the two networks can be jointly trained by optimizing a simple lower bound of data likelihood. Our experiments on six diverse generic graph datasets and two molecule datasets show that our model achieves better or comparable generation performance with previous state-of-the-art, and meanwhile enjoys fast generation speed. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** AI for the Generation and Testing of Ideas Towards an AI Supported  Knowledge Development Environment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08876  
**Abstract:** New systems employ Machine Learning to sift through large knowledge sources, creating flexible Large Language Models. These models discern context and predict sequential information in various communication forms. Generative AI, leveraging Transformers, generates textual or visual outputs mimicking human responses. It proposes one or multiple contextually feasible solutions for a user to contemplate. However, generative AI does not currently support traceability of ideas, a useful feature provided by search engines indicating origin of information. The narrative style of generative AI has gained positive reception. People learn from stories. Yet, early ChatGPT efforts had difficulty with truth, reference, calculations, and aspects like accurate maps. Current capabilities of referencing locations and linking to apps seem to be better catered by the link-centric search methods we've used for two decades. Deploying truly believable solutions extends beyond simulating contextual relevance as done by generative AI. Combining the creativity of generative AI with the provenance of internet sources in hybrid scenarios could enhance internet usage. Generative AI, viewed as drafts, stimulates thinking, offering alternative ideas for final versions or actions. Scenarios for information requests are considered. We discuss how generative AI can boost idea generation by eliminating human bias. We also describe how search can verify facts, logic, and context. The user evaluates these generated ideas for selection and usage. This paper introduces a system for knowledge workers, Generate And Search Test, enabling individuals to efficiently create solutions previously requiring top collaborations of experts. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Evaluating unsupervised disentangled representation learning for genomic  discovery and disease risk prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08893  
**Abstract:** High-dimensional clinical data have become invaluable resources for genetic studies, due to their accessibility in biobank-scale datasets and the development of high performance modeling techniques especially using deep learning. Recent work has shown that low dimensional embeddings of these clinical data learned by variational autoencoders (VAE) can be used for genome-wide association studies and polygenic risk prediction. In this work, we consider multiple unsupervised learning methods for learning disentangled representations, namely autoencoders, VAE, beta-VAE, and FactorVAE, in the context of genetic association studies. Using spirograms from UK Biobank as a running example, we observed improvements in the number of genome-wide significant loci, heritability, and performance of polygenic risk scores for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease by using FactorVAE or beta-VAE, compared to standard VAE or non-variational autoencoders. FactorVAEs performed effectively across multiple values of the regularization hyperparameter, while beta-VAEs were much more sensitive to the hyperparameter values. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Knowledge-infused Deep Learning Enables Interpretable Landslide  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08951  
**Abstract:** Forecasting how landslides will evolve over time or whether they will fail is a challenging task due to a variety of factors, both internal and external. Despite their considerable potential to address these challenges, deep learning techniques lack interpretability, undermining the credibility of the forecasts they produce. The recent development of transformer-based deep learning offers untapped possibilities for forecasting landslides with unprecedented interpretability and nonlinear feature learning capabilities. Here, we present a deep learning pipeline that is capable of predicting landslide behavior holistically, which employs a transformer-based network called LFIT to learn complex nonlinear relationships from prior knowledge and multiple source data, identifying the most relevant variables, and demonstrating a comprehensive understanding of landslide evolution and temporal patterns. By integrating prior knowledge, we provide improvement in holistic landslide forecasting, enabling us to capture diverse responses to various influencing factors in different local landslide areas. Using deformation observations as proxies for measuring the kinetics of landslides, we validate our approach by training models to forecast reservoir landslides in the Three Gorges Reservoir and creeping landslides on the Tibetan Plateau. When prior knowledge is incorporated, we show that interpretable landslide forecasting effectively identifies influential factors across various landslides. It further elucidates how local areas respond to these factors, making landslide behavior and trends more interpretable and predictable. The findings from this study will contribute to understanding landslide behavior in a new way and make the proposed approach applicable to other complex disasters influenced by internal and external factors in the future. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Development of the ChatGPT, Generative Artificial Intelligence and  Natural Large Language Models for Accountable Reporting and Use (CANGARU)  Guidelines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08974  
**Abstract:** The swift progress and ubiquitous adoption of Generative AI (GAI), Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPTs), and large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, have spurred queries about their ethical application, use, and disclosure in scholarly research and scientific productions. A few publishers and journals have recently created their own sets of rules; however, the absence of a unified approach may lead to a 'Babel Tower Effect,' potentially resulting in confusion rather than desired standardization. In response to this, we present the ChatGPT, Generative Artificial Intelligence, and Natural Large Language Models for Accountable Reporting and Use Guidelines (CANGARU) initiative, with the aim of fostering a cross-disciplinary global inclusive consensus on the ethical use, disclosure, and proper reporting of GAI/GPT/LLM technologies in academia. The present protocol consists of four distinct parts: a) an ongoing systematic review of GAI/GPT/LLM applications to understand the linked ideas, findings, and reporting standards in scholarly research, and to formulate guidelines for its use and disclosure, b) a bibliometric analysis of existing author guidelines in journals that mention GAI/GPT/LLM, with the goal of evaluating existing guidelines, analyzing the disparity in their recommendations, and identifying common rules that can be brought into the Delphi consensus process, c) a Delphi survey to establish agreement on the items for the guidelines, ensuring principled GAI/GPT/LLM use, disclosure, and reporting in academia, and d) the subsequent development and dissemination of the finalized guidelines and their supplementary explanation and elaboration documents. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** EgoVM: Achieving Precise Ego-Localization using Lightweight Vectorized  Maps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08991  
**Abstract:** Accurate and reliable ego-localization is critical for autonomous driving. In this paper, we present EgoVM, an end-to-end localization network that achieves comparable localization accuracy to prior state-of-the-art methods, but uses lightweight vectorized maps instead of heavy point-based maps. To begin with, we extract BEV features from online multi-view images and LiDAR point cloud. Then, we employ a set of learnable semantic embeddings to encode the semantic types of map elements and supervise them with semantic segmentation, to make their feature representation consistent with BEV features. After that, we feed map queries, composed of learnable semantic embeddings and coordinates of map elements, into a transformer decoder to perform cross-modality matching with BEV features. Finally, we adopt a robust histogram-based pose solver to estimate the optimal pose by searching exhaustively over candidate poses. We comprehensively validate the effectiveness of our method using both the nuScenes dataset and a newly collected dataset. The experimental results show that our method achieves centimeter-level localization accuracy, and outperforms existing methods using vectorized maps by a large margin. Furthermore, our model has been extensively tested in a large fleet of autonomous vehicles under various challenging urban scenes. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Human Action Recognition in Still Images Using ConViT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08994  
**Abstract:** Understanding the relationship between different parts of the image plays a crucial role in many visual recognition tasks. Despite the fact that Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have demonstrated impressive results in detecting single objects, they lack the capability to extract the relationship between various regions of an image, which is a crucial factor in human action recognition. To address this problem, this paper proposes a new module that functions like a convolutional layer using Vision Transformer (ViT). The proposed action recognition model comprises two components: the first part is a deep convolutional network that extracts high-level spatial features from the image, and the second component of the model utilizes a Vision Transformer that extracts the relationship between various regions of the image using the feature map generated by the CNN output. The proposed model has been evaluated on the Stanford40 and PASCAL VOC 2012 action datasets and has achieved 95.5% mAP and 91.5% mAP results, respectively, which are promising compared to other state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Revisiting Latent Space of GAN Inversion for Real Image Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08995  
**Abstract:** The exploration of the latent space in StyleGANs and GAN inversion exemplify impressive real-world image editing, yet the trade-off between reconstruction quality and editing quality remains an open problem. In this study, we revisit StyleGANs' hyperspherical prior $\mathcal{Z}$ and combine it with highly capable latent spaces to build combined spaces that faithfully invert real images while maintaining the quality of edited images. More specifically, we propose $\mathcal{F}/\mathcal{Z}^{+}$ space consisting of two subspaces: $\mathcal{F}$ space of an intermediate feature map of StyleGANs enabling faithful reconstruction and $\mathcal{Z}^{+}$ space of an extended StyleGAN prior supporting high editing quality. We project the real images into the proposed space to obtain the inverted codes, by which we then move along $\mathcal{Z}^{+}$, enabling semantic editing without sacrificing image quality. Comprehensive experiments show that $\mathcal{Z}^{+}$ can replace the most commonly-used $\mathcal{W}$, $\mathcal{W}^{+}$, and $\mathcal{S}$ spaces while preserving reconstruction quality, resulting in reduced distortion of edited images. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Towards Authentic Face Restoration with Iterative Diffusion Models and  Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08996  
**Abstract:** An authentic face restoration system is becoming increasingly demanding in many computer vision applications, e.g., image enhancement, video communication, and taking portrait. Most of the advanced face restoration models can recover high-quality faces from low-quality ones but usually fail to faithfully generate realistic and high-frequency details that are favored by users. To achieve authentic restoration, we propose $\textbf{IDM}$, an $\textbf{I}$teratively learned face restoration system based on denoising $\textbf{D}$iffusion $\textbf{M}$odels (DDMs). We define the criterion of an authentic face restoration system, and argue that denoising diffusion models are naturally endowed with this property from two aspects: intrinsic iterative refinement and extrinsic iterative enhancement. Intrinsic learning can preserve the content well and gradually refine the high-quality details, while extrinsic enhancement helps clean the data and improve the restoration task one step further. We demonstrate superior performance on blind face restoration tasks. Beyond restoration, we find the authentically cleaned data by the proposed restoration system is also helpful to image generation tasks in terms of training stabilization and sample quality. Without modifying the models, we achieve better quality than state-of-the-art on FFHQ and ImageNet generation using either GANs or diffusion models. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** TractCloud: Registration-free tractography parcellation with a novel  local-global streamline point cloud representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09000  
**Abstract:** Diffusion MRI tractography parcellation classifies streamlines into anatomical fiber tracts to enable quantification and visualization for clinical and scientific applications. Current tractography parcellation methods rely heavily on registration, but registration inaccuracies can affect parcellation and the computational cost of registration is high for large-scale datasets. Recently, deep-learning-based methods have been proposed for tractography parcellation using various types of representations for streamlines. However, these methods only focus on the information from a single streamline, ignoring geometric relationships between the streamlines in the brain. We propose TractCloud, a registration-free framework that performs whole-brain tractography parcellation directly in individual subject space. We propose a novel, learnable, local-global streamline representation that leverages information from neighboring and whole-brain streamlines to describe the local anatomy and global pose of the brain. We train our framework on a large-scale labeled tractography dataset, which we augment by applying synthetic transforms including rotation, scaling, and translations. We test our framework on five independently acquired datasets across populations and health conditions. TractCloud significantly outperforms several state-of-the-art methods on all testing datasets. TractCloud achieves efficient and consistent whole-brain white matter parcellation across the lifespan (from neonates to elderly subjects, including brain tumor patients) without the need for registration. The robustness and high inference speed of TractCloud make it suitable for large-scale tractography data analysis. Our project page is available at https://tractcloud.github.io/. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** CBSeq: A Channel-level Behavior Sequence For Encrypted Malware Traffic  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09002  
**Abstract:** Machine learning and neural networks have become increasingly popular solutions for encrypted malware traffic detection. They mine and learn complex traffic patterns, enabling detection by fitting boundaries between malware traffic and benign traffic. Compared with signature-based methods, they have higher scalability and flexibility. However, affected by the frequent variants and updates of malware, current methods suffer from a high false positive rate and do not work well for unknown malware traffic detection. It remains a critical task to achieve effective malware traffic detection. In this paper, we introduce CBSeq to address the above problems. CBSeq is a method that constructs a stable traffic representation, behavior sequence, to characterize attacking intent and achieve malware traffic detection. We novelly propose the channels with similar behavior as the detection object and extract side-channel content to construct behavior sequence. Unlike benign activities, the behavior sequences of malware and its variant's traffic exhibit solid internal correlations. Moreover, we design the MSFormer, a powerful Transformer-based multi-sequence fusion classifier. It captures the internal similarity of behavior sequence, thereby distinguishing malware traffic from benign traffic. Our evaluations demonstrate that CBSeq performs effectively in various known malware traffic detection and exhibits superior performance in unknown malware traffic detection, outperforming state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** On the (In)Effectiveness of Large Language Models for Chinese Text  Correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09007  
**Abstract:** Recently, the development and progress of Large Language Models (LLMs) have amazed the entire Artificial Intelligence community. As an outstanding representative of LLMs and the foundation model that set off this wave of research on LLMs, ChatGPT has attracted more and more researchers to study its capabilities and performance on various downstream Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. While marveling at ChatGPT's incredible performance on kinds of tasks, we notice that ChatGPT also has excellent multilingual processing capabilities, such as Chinese. To explore the Chinese processing ability of ChatGPT, we focus on Chinese Text Correction, a fundamental and challenging Chinese NLP task. Specifically, we evaluate ChatGPT on the Chinese Grammatical Error Correction (CGEC) and Chinese Spelling Check (CSC) tasks, which are two main Chinese Text Correction scenarios. From extensive analyses and comparisons with previous state-of-the-art fine-tuned models, we empirically find that the ChatGPT currently has both amazing performance and unsatisfactory behavior for Chinese Text Correction. We believe our findings will promote the landing and application of LLMs in the Chinese NLP community. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** How is ChatGPT's behavior changing over time?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09009  
**Abstract:** GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 are the two most widely used large language model (LLM) services. However, when and how these models are updated over time is opaque. Here, we evaluate the March 2023 and June 2023 versions of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 on four diverse tasks: 1) solving math problems, 2) answering sensitive/dangerous questions, 3) generating code and 4) visual reasoning. We find that the performance and behavior of both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 can vary greatly over time. For example, GPT-4 (March 2023) was very good at identifying prime numbers (accuracy 97.6%) but GPT-4 (June 2023) was very poor on these same questions (accuracy 2.4%). Interestingly GPT-3.5 (June 2023) was much better than GPT-3.5 (March 2023) in this task. GPT-4 was less willing to answer sensitive questions in June than in March, and both GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 had more formatting mistakes in code generation in June than in March. Overall, our findings shows that the behavior of the same LLM service can change substantially in a relatively short amount of time, highlighting the need for continuous monitoring of LLM quality. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** U-shaped Transformer: Retain High Frequency Context in Time Series  Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09019  
**Abstract:** Time series prediction plays a crucial role in various industrial fields. In recent years, neural networks with a transformer backbone have achieved remarkable success in many domains, including computer vision and NLP. In time series analysis domain, some studies have suggested that even the simplest MLP networks outperform advanced transformer-based networks on time series forecast tasks. However, we believe these findings indicate there to be low-rank properties in time series sequences. In this paper, we consider the low-pass characteristics of transformers and try to incorporate the advantages of MLP. We adopt skip-layer connections inspired by Unet into traditional transformer backbone, thus preserving high-frequency context from input to output, namely U-shaped Transformer. We introduce patch merge and split operation to extract features with different scales and use larger datasets to fully make use of the transformer backbone. Our experiments demonstrate that the model performs at an advanced level across multiple datasets with relatively low cost. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Face-PAST: Facial Pose Awareness and Style Transfer Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09020  
**Abstract:** Facial style transfer has been quite popular among researchers due to the rise of emerging technologies such as eXtended Reality (XR), Metaverse, and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs). Furthermore, StyleGAN methods along with transfer-learning strategies have reduced the problem of limited data to some extent. However, most of the StyleGAN methods overfit the styles while adding artifacts to facial images. In this paper, we propose a facial pose awareness and style transfer (Face-PAST) network that preserves facial details and structures while generating high-quality stylized images. Dual StyleGAN inspires our work, but in contrast, our work uses a pre-trained style generation network in an external style pass with a residual modulation block instead of a transform coding block. Furthermore, we use the gated mapping unit and facial structure, identity, and segmentation losses to preserve the facial structure and details. This enables us to train the network with a very limited amount of data while generating high-quality stylized images. Our training process adapts curriculum learning strategy to perform efficient and flexible style mixing in the generative space. We perform extensive experiments to show the superiority of Face-PAST in comparison to existing state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Emotional Intelligence of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09042  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable abilities across numerous disciplines, primarily assessed through tasks in language generation, knowledge utilization, and complex reasoning. However, their alignment with human emotions and values, which is critical for real-world applications, has not been systematically evaluated. Here, we assessed LLMs' Emotional Intelligence (EI), encompassing emotion recognition, interpretation, and understanding, which is necessary for effective communication and social interactions. Specifically, we first developed a novel psychometric assessment focusing on Emotion Understanding (EU), a core component of EI, suitable for both humans and LLMs. This test requires evaluating complex emotions (e.g., surprised, joyful, puzzled, proud) in realistic scenarios (e.g., despite feeling underperformed, John surprisingly achieved a top score). With a reference frame constructed from over 500 adults, we tested a variety of mainstream LLMs. Most achieved above-average EQ scores, with GPT-4 exceeding 89% of human participants with an EQ of 117. Interestingly, a multivariate pattern analysis revealed that some LLMs apparently did not reply on the human-like mechanism to achieve human-level performance, as their representational patterns were qualitatively distinct from humans. In addition, we discussed the impact of factors such as model size, training method, and architecture on LLMs' EQ. In summary, our study presents one of the first psychometric evaluations of the human-like characteristics of LLMs, which may shed light on the future development of LLMs aiming for both high intellectual and emotional intelligence. Project website: https://emotional-intelligence.github.io/ 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** R-Cut: Enhancing Explainability in Vision Transformers with Relationship  Weighted Out and Cut  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09050  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based models have gained popularity in the field of natural language processing (NLP) and are extensively utilized in computer vision tasks and multi-modal models such as GPT4. This paper presents a novel method to enhance the explainability of Transformer-based image classification models. Our method aims to improve trust in classification results and empower users to gain a deeper understanding of the model for downstream tasks by providing visualizations of class-specific maps. We introduce two modules: the ``Relationship Weighted Out" and the ``Cut" modules. The ``Relationship Weighted Out" module focuses on extracting class-specific information from intermediate layers, enabling us to highlight relevant features. Additionally, the ``Cut" module performs fine-grained feature decomposition, taking into account factors such as position, texture, and color. By integrating these modules, we generate dense class-specific visual explainability maps. We validate our method with extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments on the ImageNet dataset. Furthermore, we conduct a large number of experiments on the LRN dataset, specifically designed for automatic driving danger alerts, to evaluate the explainability of our method in complex backgrounds. The results demonstrate a significant improvement over previous methods. Moreover, we conduct ablation experiments to validate the effectiveness of each module. Through these experiments, we are able to confirm the respective contributions of each module, thus solidifying the overall effectiveness of our proposed approach. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** DiTTO: Diffusion-inspired Temporal Transformer Operator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09072  
**Abstract:** Solving partial differential equations (PDEs) using a data-driven approach has become increasingly common. The recent development of the operator learning paradigm has enabled the solution of a broader range of PDE-related problems. We propose an operator learning method to solve time-dependent PDEs continuously in time without needing any temporal discretization. The proposed approach, named DiTTO, is inspired by latent diffusion models. While diffusion models are usually used in generative artificial intelligence tasks, their time-conditioning mechanism is extremely useful for PDEs. The diffusion-inspired framework is combined with elements from the Transformer architecture to improve its capabilities. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Attention over pre-trained Sentence Embeddings for Long Document  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09084  
**Abstract:** Despite being the current de-facto models in most NLP tasks, transformers are often limited to short sequences due to their quadratic attention complexity on the number of tokens. Several attempts to address this issue were studied, either by reducing the cost of the self-attention computation or by modeling smaller sequences and combining them through a recurrence mechanism or using a new transformer model. In this paper, we suggest to take advantage of pre-trained sentence transformers to start from semantically meaningful embeddings of the individual sentences, and then combine them through a small attention layer that scales linearly with the document length. We report the results obtained by this simple architecture on three standard document classification datasets. When compared with the current state-of-the-art models using standard fine-tuning, the studied method obtains competitive results (even if there is no clear best model in this configuration). We also showcase that the studied architecture obtains better results when freezing the underlying transformers. A configuration that is useful when we need to avoid complete fine-tuning (e.g. when the same frozen transformer is shared by different applications). Finally, two additional experiments are provided to further evaluate the relevancy of the studied architecture over simpler baselines. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** NU-MCC: Multiview Compressive Coding with Neighborhood Decoder and  Repulsive UDF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09112  
**Abstract:** Remarkable progress has been made in 3D reconstruction from single-view RGB-D inputs. MCC is the current state-of-the-art method in this field, which achieves unprecedented success by combining vision Transformers with large-scale training. However, we identified two key limitations of MCC: 1) The Transformer decoder is inefficient in handling large number of query points; 2) The 3D representation struggles to recover high-fidelity details. In this paper, we propose a new approach called NU-MCC that addresses these limitations. NU-MCC includes two key innovations: a Neighborhood decoder and a Repulsive Unsigned Distance Function (Repulsive UDF). First, our Neighborhood decoder introduces center points as an efficient proxy of input visual features, allowing each query point to only attend to a small neighborhood. This design not only results in much faster inference speed but also enables the exploitation of finer-scale visual features for improved recovery of 3D textures. Second, our Repulsive UDF is a novel alternative to the occupancy field used in MCC, significantly improving the quality of 3D object reconstruction. Compared to standard UDFs that suffer from holes in results, our proposed Repulsive UDF can achieve more complete surface reconstruction. Experimental results demonstrate that NU-MCC is able to learn a strong 3D representation, significantly advancing the state of the art in single-view 3D reconstruction. Particularly, it outperforms MCC by 9.7% in terms of the F1-score on the CO3D-v2 dataset with more than 5x faster running speed. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Light-Weight Vision Transformer with Parallel Local and Global  Self-Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09120  
**Abstract:** While transformer architectures have dominated computer vision in recent years, these models cannot easily be deployed on hardware with limited resources for autonomous driving tasks that require real-time-performance. Their computational complexity and memory requirements limits their use, especially for applications with high-resolution inputs. In our work, we redesign the powerful state-of-the-art Vision Transformer PLG-ViT to a much more compact and efficient architecture that is suitable for such tasks. We identify computationally expensive blocks in the original PLG-ViT architecture and propose several redesigns aimed at reducing the number of parameters and floating-point operations. As a result of our redesign, we are able to reduce PLG-ViT in size by a factor of 5, with a moderate drop in performance. We propose two variants, optimized for the best trade-off between parameter count to runtime as well as parameter count to accuracy. With only 5 million parameters, we achieve 79.5$\%$ top-1 accuracy on the ImageNet-1K classification benchmark. Our networks demonstrate great performance on general vision benchmarks like COCO instance segmentation. In addition, we conduct a series of experiments, demonstrating the potential of our approach in solving various tasks specifically tailored to the challenges of autonomous driving and transportation. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Unveiling Gender Bias in Terms of Profession Across LLMs: Analyzing and  Addressing Sociological Implications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09162  
**Abstract:** Gender bias in artificial intelligence (AI) and natural language processing has garnered significant attention due to its potential impact on societal perceptions and biases. This research paper aims to analyze gender bias in Large Language Models (LLMs) with a focus on multiple comparisons between GPT-2 and GPT-3.5, some prominent language models, to better understand its implications. Through a comprehensive literature review, the study examines existing research on gender bias in AI language models and identifies gaps in the current knowledge. The methodology involves collecting and preprocessing data from GPT-2 and GPT-3.5, and employing in-depth quantitative analysis techniques to evaluate gender bias in the generated text. The findings shed light on gendered word associations, language usage, and biased narratives present in the outputs of these Large Language Models. The discussion explores the ethical implications of gender bias and its potential consequences on social perceptions and marginalized communities. Additionally, the paper presents strategies for reducing gender bias in LLMs, including algorithmic approaches and data augmentation techniques. The research highlights the importance of interdisciplinary collaborations and the role of sociological studies in mitigating gender bias in AI models. By addressing these issues, we can pave the way for more inclusive and unbiased AI systems that have a positive impact on society. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Casimir-dissipation stabilized stochastic rotating shallow water  equations on the sphere  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09194  
**Abstract:** We introduce a structure preserving discretization of stochastic rotating shallow water equations, stabilized with an energy conserving Casimir (i.e. potential enstrophy) dissipation. A stabilization of a stochastic scheme is usually required as, by modeling subgrid effects via stochastic processes, small scale features are injected which often lead to noise on the grid scale and numerical instability. Such noise is usually dissipated with a standard diffusion via a Laplacian which necessarily also dissipates energy. In this contribution we study the effects of using an energy preserving selective Casimir dissipation method compared to diffusion via a Laplacian. For both, we analyze stability and accuracy of the stochastic scheme. The results for a test case of a barotropically unstable jet show that Casimir dissipation allows for stable simulations that preserve energy and exhibit more dynamics than comparable runs that use a Laplacian. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Automated Ableism: An Exploration of Explicit Disability Biases in  Sentiment and Toxicity Analysis Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09209  
**Abstract:** We analyze sentiment analysis and toxicity detection models to detect the presence of explicit bias against people with disability (PWD). We employ the bias identification framework of Perturbation Sensitivity Analysis to examine conversations related to PWD on social media platforms, specifically Twitter and Reddit, in order to gain insight into how disability bias is disseminated in real-world social settings. We then create the \textit{Bias Identification Test in Sentiment} (BITS) corpus to quantify explicit disability bias in any sentiment analysis and toxicity detection models. Our study utilizes BITS to uncover significant biases in four open AIaaS (AI as a Service) sentiment analysis tools, namely TextBlob, VADER, Google Cloud Natural Language API, DistilBERT and two toxicity detection models, namely two versions of Toxic-BERT. Our findings indicate that all of these models exhibit statistically significant explicit bias against PWD. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Augmenting CLIP with Improved Visio-Linguistic Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09233  
**Abstract:** Image-text contrastive models such as CLIP are useful for a variety of downstream applications including zero-shot classification, image-text retrieval and transfer learning. However, these contrastively trained vision-language models often fail on compositional visio-linguistic tasks such as Winoground with performance equivalent to random chance. In our paper, we address this issue and propose a sample-efficient light-weight method called SDS-CLIP to improve the compositional visio-linguistic reasoning capabilities of CLIP. The core idea of our method is to use differentiable image parameterizations to fine-tune CLIP with a distillation objective from large text-to-image generative models such as Stable-Diffusion which are relatively good at visio-linguistic reasoning tasks. On the challenging Winoground compositional reasoning benchmark, our method improves the absolute visio-linguistic performance of different CLIP models by up to 7%, while on the ARO dataset, our method improves the visio-linguistic performance by upto 3%. As a byproduct of inducing visio-linguistic reasoning into CLIP, we also find that the zero-shot performance improves marginally on a variety of downstream datasets. Our method reinforces that carefully designed distillation objectives from generative models can be leveraged to extend existing contrastive image-text models with improved visio-linguistic reasoning capabilities. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Application of BERT in Wind Power Forecasting-Teletraan's Solution in  Baidu KDD Cup 2022  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09248  
**Abstract:** Nowadays, wind energy has drawn increasing attention as its important role in carbon neutrality and sustainable development. When wind power is integrated into the power grid, precise forecasting is necessary for the sustainability and security of the system. However, the unpredictable nature and long sequence prediction make it especially challenging. In this technical report, we introduce the BERT model applied for Baidu KDD Cup 2022, and the daily fluctuation is added by post-processing to make the predicted results in line with daily periodicity. Our solution achieves 3rd place of 2490 teams. The code is released athttps://github.com/LongxingTan/KDD2022-Baidu 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** UniTabE: Pretraining a Unified Tabular Encoder for Heterogeneous Tabular  Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09249  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP) have witnessed the groundbreaking impact of pretrained models, yielding impressive outcomes across various tasks. This study seeks to extend the power of pretraining methodologies to tabular data, a domain traditionally overlooked, yet inherently challenging due to the plethora of table schemas intrinsic to different tasks. The primary research questions underpinning this work revolve around the adaptation to heterogeneous table structures, the establishment of a universal pretraining protocol for tabular data, the generalizability and transferability of learned knowledge across tasks, the adaptation to diverse downstream applications, and the incorporation of incremental columns over time. In response to these challenges, we introduce UniTabE, a pioneering method designed to process tables in a uniform manner, devoid of constraints imposed by specific table structures. UniTabE's core concept relies on representing each basic table element with a module, termed TabUnit. This is subsequently followed by a Transformer encoder to refine the representation. Moreover, our model is designed to facilitate pretraining and finetuning through the utilization of free-form prompts. In order to implement the pretraining phase, we curated an expansive tabular dataset comprising approximately 13 billion samples, meticulously gathered from the Kaggle platform. Rigorous experimental testing and analyses were performed under a myriad of scenarios to validate the effectiveness of our methodology. The experimental results demonstrate UniTabE's superior performance against several baseline models across a multitude of benchmark datasets. This, therefore, underscores UniTabE's potential to significantly enhance the semantic representation of tabular data, thereby marking a significant stride in the field of tabular data analysis. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Text vectorization via transformer-based language models and n-gram  perplexities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09255  
**Abstract:** As the probability (and thus perplexity) of a text is calculated based on the product of the probabilities of individual tokens, it may happen that one unlikely token significantly reduces the probability (i.e., increase the perplexity) of some otherwise highly probable input, while potentially representing a simple typographical error. Also, given that perplexity is a scalar value that refers to the entire input, information about the probability distribution within it is lost in the calculation (a relatively good text that has one unlikely token and another text in which each token is equally likely they can have the same perplexity value), especially for longer texts. As an alternative to scalar perplexity this research proposes a simple algorithm used to calculate vector values based on n-gram perplexities within the input. Such representations consider the previously mentioned aspects, and instead of a unique value, the relative perplexity of each text token is calculated, and these values are combined into a single vector representing the input. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Linearized Relative Positional Encoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09270  
**Abstract:** Relative positional encoding is widely used in vanilla and linear transformers to represent positional information. However, existing encoding methods of a vanilla transformer are not always directly applicable to a linear transformer, because the latter requires a decomposition of the query and key representations into separate kernel functions. Nevertheless, principles for designing encoding methods suitable for linear transformers remain understudied. In this work, we put together a variety of existing linear relative positional encoding approaches under a canonical form and further propose a family of linear relative positional encoding algorithms via unitary transformation. Our formulation leads to a principled framework that can be used to develop new relative positional encoding methods that preserve linear space-time complexity. Equipped with different models, the proposed linearized relative positional encoding (LRPE) family derives effective encoding for various applications. Experiments show that compared with existing methods, LRPE achieves state-of-the-art performance in language modeling, text classification, and image classification. Meanwhile, it emphasizes a general paradigm for designing broadly more relative positional encoding methods that are applicable to linear transformers. The code is available at https://github.com/OpenNLPLab/Lrpe. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Improving Text Semantic Similarity Modeling through a 3D Siamese Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09274  
**Abstract:** Siamese networks have gained popularity as a method for modeling text semantic similarity. Traditional methods rely on pooling operation to compress the semantic representations from Transformer blocks in encoding, resulting in two-dimensional semantic vectors and the loss of hierarchical semantic information from Transformer blocks. Moreover, this limited structure of semantic vectors is akin to a flattened landscape, which restricts the methods that can be applied in downstream modeling, as they can only navigate this flat terrain. To address this issue, we propose a novel 3D Siamese network for text semantic similarity modeling, which maps semantic information to a higher-dimensional space. The three-dimensional semantic tensors not only retains more precise spatial and feature domain information but also provides the necessary structural condition for comprehensive downstream modeling strategies to capture them. Leveraging this structural advantage, we introduce several modules to reinforce this 3D framework, focusing on three aspects: feature extraction, attention, and feature fusion. Our extensive experiments on four text semantic similarity benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our 3D Siamese Network. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Multi-Modal Discussion Transformer: Integrating Text, Images and Graph  Transformers to Detect Hate Speech on Social Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09312  
**Abstract:** We present the Multi-Modal Discussion Transformer (mDT), a novel multi-modal graph-based transformer model for detecting hate speech in online social networks. In contrast to traditional text-only methods, our approach to labelling a comment as hate speech centers around the holistic analysis of text and images. This is done by leveraging graph transformers to capture the contextual relationships in the entire discussion that surrounds a comment, with interwoven fusion layers to combine text and image embeddings instead of processing different modalities separately. We compare the performance of our model to baselines that only process text; we also conduct extensive ablation studies. We conclude with future work for multimodal solutions to deliver social value in online contexts, arguing that capturing a holistic view of a conversation greatly advances the effort to detect anti-social behavior. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Efficient Region-Aware Neural Radiance Fields for High-Fidelity Talking  Portrait Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09323  
**Abstract:** This paper presents ER-NeRF, a novel conditional Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) based architecture for talking portrait synthesis that can concurrently achieve fast convergence, real-time rendering, and state-of-the-art performance with small model size. Our idea is to explicitly exploit the unequal contribution of spatial regions to guide talking portrait modeling. Specifically, to improve the accuracy of dynamic head reconstruction, a compact and expressive NeRF-based Tri-Plane Hash Representation is introduced by pruning empty spatial regions with three planar hash encoders. For speech audio, we propose a Region Attention Module to generate region-aware condition feature via an attention mechanism. Different from existing methods that utilize an MLP-based encoder to learn the cross-modal relation implicitly, the attention mechanism builds an explicit connection between audio features and spatial regions to capture the priors of local motions. Moreover, a direct and fast Adaptive Pose Encoding is introduced to optimize the head-torso separation problem by mapping the complex transformation of the head pose into spatial coordinates. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method renders better high-fidelity and audio-lips synchronized talking portrait videos, with realistic details and high efficiency compared to previous methods. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Towards a performance analysis on pre-trained Visual Question Answering  models for autonomous driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09329  
**Abstract:** This short paper presents a preliminary analysis of three popular Visual Question Answering (VQA) models, namely ViLBERT, ViLT, and LXMERT, in the context of answering questions relating to driving scenarios. The performance of these models is evaluated by comparing the similarity of responses to reference answers provided by computer vision experts. Model selection is predicated on the analysis of transformer utilization in multimodal architectures. The results indicate that models incorporating cross-modal attention and late fusion techniques exhibit promising potential for generating improved answers within a driving perspective. This initial analysis serves as a launchpad for a forthcoming comprehensive comparative study involving nine VQA models and sets the scene for further investigations into the effectiveness of VQA model queries in self-driving scenarios. Supplementary material is available at https://github.com/KaavyaRekanar/Towards-a-performance-analysis-on-pre-trained-VQA-models-for-autonomous-driving. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** MOCA: Self-supervised Representation Learning by Predicting Masked  Online Codebook Assignments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09361  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised learning can be used for mitigating the greedy needs of Vision Transformer networks for very large fully-annotated datasets. Different classes of self-supervised learning offer representations with either good contextual reasoning properties, e.g., using masked image modeling strategies, or invariance to image perturbations, e.g., with contrastive methods. In this work, we propose a single-stage and standalone method, MOCA, which unifies both desired properties using novel mask-and-predict objectives defined with high-level features (instead of pixel-level details). Moreover, we show how to effectively employ both learning paradigms in a synergistic and computation-efficient way. Doing so, we achieve new state-of-the-art results on low-shot settings and strong experimental results in various evaluation protocols with a training that is at least 3 times faster than prior methods. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** LEST: Large-scale LiDAR Semantic Segmentation with Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09367  
**Abstract:** Large-scale LiDAR-based point cloud semantic segmentation is a critical task in autonomous driving perception. Almost all of the previous state-of-the-art LiDAR semantic segmentation methods are variants of sparse 3D convolution. Although the Transformer architecture is becoming popular in the field of natural language processing and 2D computer vision, its application to large-scale point cloud semantic segmentation is still limited. In this paper, we propose a LiDAR sEmantic Segmentation architecture with pure Transformer, LEST. LEST comprises two novel components: a Space Filling Curve (SFC) Grouping strategy and a Distance-based Cosine Linear Transformer, DISCO. On the public nuScenes semantic segmentation validation set and SemanticKITTI test set, our model outperforms all the other state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Is this Snippet Written by ChatGPT? An Empirical Study with a  CodeBERT-Based Classifier  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09381  
**Abstract:** Since its launch in November 2022, ChatGPT has gained popularity among users, especially programmers who use it as a tool to solve development problems. However, while offering a practical solution to programming problems, ChatGPT should be mainly used as a supporting tool (e.g., in software education) rather than as a replacement for the human being. Thus, detecting automatically generated source code by ChatGPT is necessary, and tools for identifying AI-generated content may need to be adapted to work effectively with source code. This paper presents an empirical study to investigate the feasibility of automated identification of AI-generated code snippets, and the factors that influence this ability. To this end, we propose a novel approach called GPTSniffer, which builds on top of CodeBERT to detect source code written by AI. The results show that GPTSniffer can accurately classify whether code is human-written or AI-generated, and outperforms two baselines, GPTZero and OpenAI Text Classifier. Also, the study shows how similar training data or a classification context with paired snippets helps to boost classification performances. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** A comparative analysis of SR-GAN models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09456  
**Abstract:** In this study, we evaluate the performance of multiple state-of-the-art SR GAN (Super Resolution Generative Adversarial Network) models, ESRGAN, Real-ESRGAN and EDSR, on a benchmark dataset of real-world images which undergo degradation using a pipeline. Our results show that some models seem to significantly increase the resolution of the input images while preserving their visual quality, this is assessed using Tesseract OCR engine. We observe that EDSR-BASE model from huggingface outperforms the remaining candidate models in terms of both quantitative metrics and subjective visual quality assessments with least compute overhead. Specifically, EDSR generates images with higher peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) and structural similarity index (SSIM) values and are seen to return high quality OCR results with Tesseract OCR engine. These findings suggest that EDSR is a robust and effective approach for single-image super-resolution and may be particularly well-suited for applications where high-quality visual fidelity is critical and optimized compute. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** ChatSpot: Bootstrapping Multimodal LLMs via Precise Referring  Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09474  
**Abstract:** Human-AI interactivity is a critical aspect that reflects the usability of multimodal large language models (MLLMs). However, existing end-to-end MLLMs only allow users to interact with them through language instructions, leading to the limitation of the interactive accuracy and efficiency. In this study, we present precise referring instructions that utilize diverse reference representations such as points and boxes as referring prompts to refer to the special region. This enables MLLMs to focus on the region of interest and achieve finer-grained interaction. Based on precise referring instruction, we propose ChatSpot, a unified end-to-end multimodal large language model that supports diverse forms of interactivity including mouse clicks, drag-and-drop, and drawing boxes, which provides a more flexible and seamless interactive experience. We also construct a multi-grained vision-language instruction-following dataset based on existing datasets and GPT-4 generating. Furthermore, we design a series of evaluation tasks to assess the effectiveness of region recognition and interaction. Experimental results showcase ChatSpot's promising performance. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** AnyDoor: Zero-shot Object-level Image Customization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09481  
**Abstract:** This work presents AnyDoor, a diffusion-based image generator with the power to teleport target objects to new scenes at user-specified locations in a harmonious way. Instead of tuning parameters for each object, our model is trained only once and effortlessly generalizes to diverse object-scene combinations at the inference stage. Such a challenging zero-shot setting requires an adequate characterization of a certain object. To this end, we complement the commonly used identity feature with detail features, which are carefully designed to maintain texture details yet allow versatile local variations (e.g., lighting, orientation, posture, etc.), supporting the object in favorably blending with different surroundings. We further propose to borrow knowledge from video datasets, where we can observe various forms (i.e., along the time axis) of a single object, leading to stronger model generalizability and robustness. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our approach over existing alternatives as well as its great potential in real-world applications, such as virtual try-on and object moving. Project page is https://damo-vilab.github.io/AnyDoor-Page/. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Bloated Disclosures: Can ChatGPT Help Investors Process Financial  Information?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.10224  
**Abstract:** Generative AI tools such as ChatGPT can fundamentally change the way investors process information. We probe the economic usefulness of these tools in summarizing complex corporate disclosures using the stock market as a laboratory. The unconstrained summaries are dramatically shorter, often by more than 70% compared to the originals, whereas their information content is amplified. When a document has a positive (negative) sentiment, its summary becomes more positive (negative). More importantly, the summaries are more effective at explaining stock market reactions to the disclosed information. Motivated by these findings, we propose a measure of information "bloat." We show that bloated disclosure is associated with adverse capital markets consequences, such as lower price efficiency and higher information asymmetry. Finally, we show that the model is effective at constructing targeted summaries that identify firms' (non-)financial performance and risks. Collectively, our results indicate that generative language modeling adds considerable value for investors with information processing constraints. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Efficient Prediction of Peptide Self-assembly through Sequential and  Graphical Encoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09169  
**Abstract:** In recent years, there has been an explosion of research on the application of deep learning to the prediction of various peptide properties, due to the significant development and market potential of peptides. Molecular dynamics has enabled the efficient collection of large peptide datasets, providing reliable training data for deep learning. However, the lack of systematic analysis of the peptide encoding, which is essential for AI-assisted peptide-related tasks, makes it an urgent problem to be solved for the improvement of prediction accuracy. To address this issue, we first collect a high-quality, colossal simulation dataset of peptide self-assembly containing over 62,000 samples generated by coarse-grained molecular dynamics (CGMD). Then, we systematically investigate the effect of peptide encoding of amino acids into sequences and molecular graphs using state-of-the-art sequential (i.e., RNN, LSTM, and Transformer) and structural deep learning models (i.e., GCN, GAT, and GraphSAGE), on the accuracy of peptide self-assembly prediction, an essential physiochemical process prior to any peptide-related applications. Extensive benchmarking studies have proven Transformer to be the most powerful sequence-encoding-based deep learning model, pushing the limit of peptide self-assembly prediction to decapeptides. In summary, this work provides a comprehensive benchmark analysis of peptide encoding with advanced deep learning models, serving as a guide for a wide range of peptide-related predictions such as isoelectric points, hydration free energy, etc. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Joint Microseismic Event Detection and Location with a Detection  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09207  
**Abstract:** Microseismic event detection and location are two primary components in microseismic monitoring, which offers us invaluable insights into the subsurface during reservoir stimulation and evolution. Conventional approaches for event detection and location often suffer from manual intervention and/or heavy computation, while current machine learning-assisted approaches typically address detection and location separately; such limitations hinder the potential for real-time microseismic monitoring. We propose an approach to unify event detection and source location into a single framework by adapting a Convolutional Neural Network backbone and an encoder-decoder Transformer with a set-based Hungarian loss, which is applied directly to recorded waveforms. The proposed network is trained on synthetic data simulating multiple microseismic events corresponding to random source locations in the area of suspected microseismic activities. A synthetic test on a 2D profile of the SEAM Time Lapse model illustrates the capability of the proposed method in detecting the events properly and locating them in the subsurface accurately; while, a field test using the Arkoma Basin data further proves its practicability, efficiency, and its potential in paving the way for real-time monitoring of microseismic events. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Study of Vision Transformers for Covid-19 Detection from Chest X-rays  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09402  
**Abstract:** The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a global health crisis, highlighting the need for rapid and accurate virus detection. This research paper examines transfer learning with vision transformers for COVID-19 detection, known for its excellent performance in image recognition tasks. We leverage the capability of Vision Transformers to capture global context and learn complex patterns from chest X-ray images. In this work, we explored the recent state-of-art transformer models to detect Covid-19 using CXR images such as vision transformer (ViT), Swin-transformer, Max vision transformer (MViT), and Pyramid Vision transformer (PVT). Through the utilization of transfer learning with IMAGENET weights, the models achieved an impressive accuracy range of 98.75% to 99.5%. Our experiments demonstrate that Vision Transformers achieve state-of-the-art performance in COVID-19 detection, outperforming traditional methods and even Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). The results highlight the potential of Vision Transformers as a powerful tool for COVID-19 detection, with implications for improving the efficiency and accuracy of screening and diagnosis in clinical settings. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** SLMGAN: Exploiting Speech Language Model Representations for  Unsupervised Zero-Shot Voice Conversion in GANs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09435  
**Abstract:** In recent years, large-scale pre-trained speech language models (SLMs) have demonstrated remarkable advancements in various generative speech modeling applications, such as text-to-speech synthesis, voice conversion, and speech enhancement. These applications typically involve mapping text or speech inputs to pre-trained SLM representations, from which target speech is decoded. This paper introduces a new approach, SLMGAN, to leverage SLM representations for discriminative tasks within the generative adversarial network (GAN) framework, specifically for voice conversion. Building upon StarGANv2-VC, we add our novel SLM-based WavLM discriminators on top of the mel-based discriminators along with our newly designed SLM feature matching loss function, resulting in an unsupervised zero-shot voice conversion system that does not require text labels during training. Subjective evaluation results show that SLMGAN outperforms existing state-of-the-art zero-shot voice conversion models in terms of naturalness and achieves comparable similarity, highlighting the potential of SLM-based discriminators for related applications. 

