**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Leveraging Mixed Precision in Exponential Time Integration Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09498  
**Abstract:** The machine learning explosion has created a prominent trend in modern computer hardware towards low precision floating-point operations. In response, there have been growing efforts to use low and mixed precision in general scientific computing. One important area that has received limited exploration is time-integration methods, which are used for solving differential equations that are ubiquitous in science and engineering applications. In this work, we develop two new approaches for leveraging mixed precision in exponential time integration methods. The first approach is based on a reformulation of the exponential Rosenbrock--Euler method allowing for low precision computations in matrix exponentials independent of the particular algorithm for matrix exponentiation. The second approach is based on an inexact and incomplete Arnoldi procedure in Krylov approximation methods for computing matrix exponentials and is agnostic to the chosen integration method. We show that both approaches improve accuracy compared to using purely low precision and offer better efficiency than using only double precision when solving an advection-diffusion-reaction partial differential equation. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Can Model Fusing Help Transformers in Long Document Classification? An  Empirical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09532  
**Abstract:** Text classification is an area of research which has been studied over the years in Natural Language Processing (NLP). Adapting NLP to multiple domains has introduced many new challenges for text classification and one of them is long document classification. While state-of-the-art transformer models provide excellent results in text classification, most of them have limitations in the maximum sequence length of the input sequence. The majority of the transformer models are limited to 512 tokens, and therefore, they struggle with long document classification problems. In this research, we explore on employing Model Fusing for long document classification while comparing the results with well-known BERT and Longformer architectures. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Surgical Action Triplet Detection by Mixed Supervised Learning of  Instrument-Tissue Interactions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09548  
**Abstract:** Surgical action triplets describe instrument-tissue interactions as (instrument, verb, target) combinations, thereby supporting a detailed analysis of surgical scene activities and workflow. This work focuses on surgical action triplet detection, which is challenging but more precise than the traditional triplet recognition task as it consists of joint (1) localization of surgical instruments and (2) recognition of the surgical action triplet associated with every localized instrument. Triplet detection is highly complex due to the lack of spatial triplet annotation. We analyze how the amount of instrument spatial annotations affects triplet detection and observe that accurate instrument localization does not guarantee better triplet detection due to the risk of erroneous associations with the verbs and targets. To solve the two tasks, we propose MCIT-IG, a two-stage network, that stands for Multi-Class Instrument-aware Transformer-Interaction Graph. The MCIT stage of our network models per class embedding of the targets as additional features to reduce the risk of misassociating triplets. Furthermore, the IG stage constructs a bipartite dynamic graph to model the interaction between the instruments and targets, cast as the verbs. We utilize a mixed-supervised learning strategy that combines weak target presence labels for MCIT and pseudo triplet labels for IG to train our network. We observed that complementing minimal instrument spatial annotations with target embeddings results in better triplet detection. We evaluate our model on the CholecT50 dataset and show improved performance on both instrument localization and triplet detection, topping the leaderboard of the CholecTriplet challenge in MICCAI 2022. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Transient Neural Radiance Fields for Lidar View Synthesis and 3D  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09555  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have become a ubiquitous tool for modeling scene appearance and geometry from multiview imagery. Recent work has also begun to explore how to use additional supervision from lidar or depth sensor measurements in the NeRF framework. However, previous lidar-supervised NeRFs focus on rendering conventional camera imagery and use lidar-derived point cloud data as auxiliary supervision; thus, they fail to incorporate the underlying image formation model of the lidar. Here, we propose a novel method for rendering transient NeRFs that take as input the raw, time-resolved photon count histograms measured by a single-photon lidar system, and we seek to render such histograms from novel views. Different from conventional NeRFs, the approach relies on a time-resolved version of the volume rendering equation to render the lidar measurements and capture transient light transport phenomena at picosecond timescales. We evaluate our method on a first-of-its-kind dataset of simulated and captured transient multiview scans from a prototype single-photon lidar. Overall, our work brings NeRFs to a new dimension of imaging at transient timescales, newly enabling rendering of transient imagery from novel views. Additionally, we show that our approach recovers improved geometry and conventional appearance compared to point cloud-based supervision when training on few input viewpoints. Transient NeRFs may be especially useful for applications which seek to simulate raw lidar measurements for downstream tasks in autonomous driving, robotics, and remote sensing. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Understanding Multi-Turn Toxic Behaviors in Open-Domain Chatbots  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09579  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in natural language processing and machine learning have led to the development of chatbot models, such as ChatGPT, that can engage in conversational dialogue with human users. However, the ability of these models to generate toxic or harmful responses during a non-toxic multi-turn conversation remains an open research question. Existing research focuses on single-turn sentence testing, while we find that 82\% of the individual non-toxic sentences that elicit toxic behaviors in a conversation are considered safe by existing tools. In this paper, we design a new attack, \toxicbot, by fine-tuning a chatbot to engage in conversation with a target open-domain chatbot. The chatbot is fine-tuned with a collection of crafted conversation sequences. Particularly, each conversation begins with a sentence from a crafted prompt sentences dataset. Our extensive evaluation shows that open-domain chatbot models can be triggered to generate toxic responses in a multi-turn conversation. In the best scenario, \toxicbot achieves a 67\% activation rate. The conversation sequences in the fine-tuning stage help trigger the toxicity in a conversation, which allows the attack to bypass two defense methods. Our findings suggest that further research is needed to address chatbot toxicity in a dynamic interactive environment. The proposed \toxicbot can be used by both industry and researchers to develop methods for detecting and mitigating toxic responses in conversational dialogue and improve the robustness of chatbots for end users. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** With Flying Colors: Predicting Community Success in Large-scale  Collaborative Campaigns  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09650  
**Abstract:** Online communities develop unique characteristics, establish social norms, and exhibit distinct dynamics among their members. Activity in online communities often results in concrete ``off-line'' actions with a broad societal impact (e.g., political street protests and norms related to sexual misconduct). While community dynamics, information diffusion, and online collaborations have been widely studied in the past two decades, quantitative studies that measure the effectiveness of online communities in promoting their agenda are scarce. In this work, we study the correspondence between the effectiveness of a community, measured by its success level in a competitive online campaign, and the underlying dynamics between its members. To this end, we define a novel task: predicting the success level of online communities in Reddit's r/place - a large-scale distributed experiment that required collaboration between community members. We consider an array of definitions for success level; each is geared toward different aspects of collaborative achievement. We experiment with several hybrid models, combining various types of features. Our models significantly outperform all baseline models over all definitions of `success level'. Analysis of the results and the factors that contribute to the success of coordinated campaigns can provide a better understanding of the resilience or the vulnerability of communities to online social threats such as election interference or anti-science trends. We make all data used for this study publicly available for further research. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Object-aware Gaze Target Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09662  
**Abstract:** Gaze target detection aims to predict the image location where the person is looking and the probability that a gaze is out of the scene. Several works have tackled this task by regressing a gaze heatmap centered on the gaze location, however, they overlooked decoding the relationship between the people and the gazed objects. This paper proposes a Transformer-based architecture that automatically detects objects (including heads) in the scene to build associations between every head and the gazed-head/object, resulting in a comprehensive, explainable gaze analysis composed of: gaze target area, gaze pixel point, the class and the image location of the gazed-object. Upon evaluation of the in-the-wild benchmarks, our method achieves state-of-the-art results on all metrics (up to 2.91% gain in AUC, 50% reduction in gaze distance, and 9% gain in out-of-frame average precision) for gaze target detection and 11-13% improvement in average precision for the classification and the localization of the gazed-objects. The code of the proposed method is available https://github.com/francescotonini/object-aware-gaze-target-detection 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Anticipating Technical Expertise and Capability Evolution in Research  Communities using Dynamic Graph Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09665  
**Abstract:** The ability to anticipate technical expertise and capability evolution trends globally is essential for national and global security, especially in safety-critical domains like nuclear nonproliferation (NN) and rapidly emerging fields like artificial intelligence (AI). In this work, we extend traditional statistical relational learning approaches (e.g., link prediction in collaboration networks) and formulate a problem of anticipating technical expertise and capability evolution using dynamic heterogeneous graph representations. We develop novel capabilities to forecast collaboration patterns, authorship behavior, and technical capability evolution at different granularities (e.g., scientist and institution levels) in two distinct research fields. We implement a dynamic graph transformer (DGT) neural architecture, which pushes the state-of-the-art graph neural network models by (a) forecasting heterogeneous (rather than homogeneous) nodes and edges, and (b) relying on both discrete -- and continuous -- time inputs. We demonstrate that our DGT models predict collaboration, partnership, and expertise patterns with 0.26, 0.73, and 0.53 mean reciprocal rank values for AI and 0.48, 0.93, and 0.22 for NN domains. DGT model performance exceeds the best-performing static graph baseline models by 30-80% across AI and NN domains. Our findings demonstrate that DGT models boost inductive task performance, when previously unseen nodes appear in the test data, for the domains with emerging collaboration patterns (e.g., AI). Specifically, models accurately predict which established scientists will collaborate with early career scientists and vice-versa in the AI domain. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** JAZZVAR: A Dataset of Variations found within Solo Piano Performances of  Jazz Standards for Music Overpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09670  
**Abstract:** Jazz pianists often uniquely interpret jazz standards. Passages from these interpretations can be viewed as sections of variation. We manually extracted such variations from solo jazz piano performances. The JAZZVAR dataset is a collection of 502 pairs of Variation and Original MIDI segments. Each Variation in the dataset is accompanied by a corresponding Original segment containing the melody and chords from the original jazz standard. Our approach differs from many existing jazz datasets in the music information retrieval (MIR) community, which often focus on improvisation sections within jazz performances. In this paper, we outline the curation process for obtaining and sorting the repertoire, the pipeline for creating the Original and Variation pairs, and our analysis of the dataset. We also introduce a new generative music task, Music Overpainting, and present a baseline Transformer model trained on the JAZZVAR dataset for this task. Other potential applications of our dataset include expressive performance analysis and performer identification. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** PubMed and Beyond: Recent Advances and Best Practices in Biomedical  Literature Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09683  
**Abstract:** Biomedical research yields a wealth of information, much of which is only accessible through the literature. Consequently, literature search is an essential tool for building on prior knowledge in clinical and biomedical research. Although recent improvements in artificial intelligence have expanded functionality beyond keyword-based search, these advances may be unfamiliar to clinicians and researchers. In response, we present a survey of literature search tools tailored to both general and specific information needs in biomedicine, with the objective of helping readers efficiently fulfill their information needs. We first examine the widely used PubMed search engine, discussing recent improvements and continued challenges. We then describe literature search tools catering to five specific information needs: 1. Identifying high-quality clinical research for evidence-based medicine. 2. Retrieving gene-related information for precision medicine and genomics. 3. Searching by meaning, including natural language questions. 4. Locating related articles with literature recommendation. 5. Mining literature to discover associations between concepts such as diseases and genetic variants. Additionally, we cover practical considerations and best practices for choosing and using these tools. Finally, we provide a perspective on the future of literature search engines, considering recent breakthroughs in large language models such as ChatGPT. In summary, our survey provides a comprehensive view of biomedical literature search functionalities with 36 publicly available tools. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Improving Domain Generalization for Sound Classification with Sparse  Frequency-Regularized Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09723  
**Abstract:** Sound classification models' performance suffers from generalizing on out-of-distribution (OOD) data. Numerous methods have been proposed to help the model generalize. However, most either introduce inference overheads or focus on long-lasting CNN-variants, while Transformers has been proven to outperform CNNs on numerous natural language processing and computer vision tasks. We propose FRITO, an effective regularization technique on Transformer's self-attention, to improve the model's generalization ability by limiting each sequence position's attention receptive field along the frequency dimension on the spectrogram. Experiments show that our method helps Transformer models achieve SOTA generalization performance on TAU 2020 and Nsynth datasets while saving 20% inference time. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Enhancing conversational quality in language learning chatbots: An  evaluation of GPT4 for ASR error correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09744  
**Abstract:** The integration of natural language processing (NLP) technologies into educational applications has shown promising results, particularly in the language learning domain. Recently, many spoken open-domain chatbots have been used as speaking partners, helping language learners improve their language skills. However, one of the significant challenges is the high word-error-rate (WER) when recognizing non-native/non-fluent speech, which interrupts conversation flow and leads to disappointment for learners. This paper explores the use of GPT4 for ASR error correction in conversational settings. In addition to WER, we propose to use semantic textual similarity (STS) and next response sensibility (NRS) metrics to evaluate the impact of error correction models on the quality of the conversation. We find that transcriptions corrected by GPT4 lead to higher conversation quality, despite an increase in WER. GPT4 also outperforms standard error correction methods without the need for in-domain training data. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Watch out Venomous Snake Species: A Solution to SnakeCLEF2023  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09748  
**Abstract:** The SnakeCLEF2023 competition aims to the development of advanced algorithms for snake species identification through the analysis of images and accompanying metadata. This paper presents a method leveraging utilization of both images and metadata. Modern CNN models and strong data augmentation are utilized to learn better representation of images. To relieve the challenge of long-tailed distribution, seesaw loss is utilized in our method. We also design a light model to calculate prior probabilities using metadata features extracted from CLIP in post processing stage. Besides, we attach more importance to venomous species by assigning venomous species labels to some examples that model is uncertain about. Our method achieves 91.31% score of the final metric combined of F1 and other metrics on private leaderboard, which is the 1st place among the participators. The code is available at https://github.com/xiaoxsparraw/CLEF2023. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Unmaking AI Imagemaking: A Methodological Toolkit for Critical  Investigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09753  
**Abstract:** AI image models are rapidly evolving, disrupting aesthetic production in many industries. However, understanding of their underlying archives, their logic of image reproduction, and their persistent biases remains limited. What kind of methods and approaches could open up these black boxes? In this paper, we provide three methodological approaches for investigating AI image models and apply them to Stable Diffusion as a case study. Unmaking the ecosystem analyzes the values, structures, and incentives surrounding the model's production. Unmaking the data analyzes the images and text the model draws upon, with their attendant particularities and biases. Unmaking the output analyzes the model's generative results, revealing its logics through prompting, reflection, and iteration. Each mode of inquiry highlights particular ways in which the image model captures, "understands," and recreates the world. This accessible framework supports the work of critically investigating generative AI image models and paves the way for more socially and politically attuned analyses of their impacts in the world. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Longitudinal Data and a Semantic Similarity Reward for Chest X-Ray  Report Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09758  
**Abstract:** Chest X-Ray (CXR) report generation is a promising approach to improving the efficiency of CXR interpretation. However, a significant increase in diagnostic accuracy is required before that can be realised. Motivated by this, we propose a framework that is more inline with a radiologist's workflow by considering longitudinal data. Here, the decoder is additionally conditioned on the report from the subject's previous imaging study via a prompt. We also propose a new reward for reinforcement learning based on CXR-BERT, which computes the similarity between reports. We conduct experiments on the MIMIC-CXR dataset. The results indicate that longitudinal data improves CXR report generation. CXR-BERT is also shown to be a promising alternative to the current state-of-the-art reward based on RadGraph. This investigation indicates that longitudinal CXR report generation can offer a substantial increase in diagnostic accuracy. Our Hugging Face model is available at: https://huggingface.co/aehrc/cxrmate and code is available at: https://github.com/aehrc/cxrmate. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Reinforcing POD based model reduction techniques in reaction-diffusion  complex networks using stochastic filtering and pattern recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09762  
**Abstract:** Complex networks are used to model many real-world systems. However, the dimensionality of these systems can make them challenging to analyze. Dimensionality reduction techniques like POD can be used in such cases. However, these models are susceptible to perturbations in the input data. We propose an algorithmic framework that combines techniques from pattern recognition (PR) and stochastic filtering theory to enhance the output of such models. The results of our study show that our method can improve the accuracy of the surrogate model under perturbed inputs. Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are susceptible to adversarial attacks. However, recent research has revealed that neural Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) exhibit robustness in specific applications. We benchmark our algorithmic framework with a Neural ODE-based approach as a reference. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Are We Ready to Embrace Generative AI for Software Q&A?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09765  
**Abstract:** Stack Overflow, the world's largest software Q&A (SQA) website, is facing a significant traffic drop due to the emergence of generative AI techniques. ChatGPT is banned by Stack Overflow after only 6 days from its release. The main reason provided by the official Stack Overflow is that the answers generated by ChatGPT are of low quality. To verify this, we conduct a comparative evaluation of human-written and ChatGPT-generated answers. Our methodology employs both automatic comparison and a manual study. Our results suggest that human-written and ChatGPT-generated answers are semantically similar, however, human-written answers outperform ChatGPT-generated ones consistently across multiple aspects, specifically by 10% on the overall score. We release the data, analysis scripts, and detailed results at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/GAI4SQA-FD5C. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Text2Layer: Layered Image Generation using Latent Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09781  
**Abstract:** Layer compositing is one of the most popular image editing workflows among both amateurs and professionals. Motivated by the success of diffusion models, we explore layer compositing from a layered image generation perspective. Instead of generating an image, we propose to generate background, foreground, layer mask, and the composed image simultaneously. To achieve layered image generation, we train an autoencoder that is able to reconstruct layered images and train diffusion models on the latent representation. One benefit of the proposed problem is to enable better compositing workflows in addition to the high-quality image output. Another benefit is producing higher-quality layer masks compared to masks produced by a separate step of image segmentation. Experimental results show that the proposed method is able to generate high-quality layered images and initiates a benchmark for future work. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** DVPT: Dynamic Visual Prompt Tuning of Large Pre-trained Models for  Medical Image Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09787  
**Abstract:** Limited labeled data makes it hard to train models from scratch in medical domain, and an important paradigm is pre-training and then fine-tuning. Large pre-trained models contain rich representations, which can be adapted to downstream medical tasks. However, existing methods either tune all the parameters or the task-specific layers of the pre-trained models, ignoring the input variations of medical images, and thus they are not efficient or effective. In this work, we aim to study parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) for medical image analysis, and propose a dynamic visual prompt tuning method, named DVPT. It can extract knowledge beneficial to downstream tasks from large models with a few trainable parameters. Firstly, the frozen features are transformed by an lightweight bottleneck layer to learn the domain-specific distribution of downstream medical tasks, and then a few learnable visual prompts are used as dynamic queries and then conduct cross-attention with the transformed features, attempting to acquire sample-specific knowledge that are suitable for each sample. Finally, the features are projected to original feature dimension and aggregated with the frozen features. This DVPT module can be shared between different Transformer layers, further reducing the trainable parameters. To validate DVPT, we conduct extensive experiments with different pre-trained models on medical classification and segmentation tasks. We find such PEFT method can not only efficiently adapt the pre-trained models to the medical domain, but also brings data efficiency with partial labeled data. For example, with 0.5\% extra trainable parameters, our method not only outperforms state-of-the-art PEFT methods, even surpasses the full fine-tuning by more than 2.20\% Kappa score on medical classification task. It can saves up to 60\% labeled data and 99\% storage cost of ViT-B/16. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** On the Origin of LLMs: An Evolutionary Tree and Graph for 15,821 Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09793  
**Abstract:** Since late 2022, Large Language Models (LLMs) have become very prominent with LLMs like ChatGPT and Bard receiving millions of users. Hundreds of new LLMs are announced each week, many of which are deposited to Hugging Face, a repository of machine learning models and datasets. To date, nearly 16,000 Text Generation models have been uploaded to the site. Given the huge influx of LLMs, it is of interest to know which LLM backbones, settings, training methods, and families are popular or trending. However, there is no comprehensive index of LLMs available. We take advantage of the relatively systematic nomenclature of Hugging Face LLMs to perform hierarchical clustering and identify communities amongst LLMs using n-grams and term frequency-inverse document frequency. Our methods successfully identify families of LLMs and accurately cluster LLMs into meaningful subgroups. We present a public web application to navigate and explore Constellation, our atlas of 15,821 LLMs. Constellation rapidly generates a variety of visualizations, namely dendrograms, graphs, word clouds, and scatter plots. Constellation is available at the following link: https://constellation.sites.stanford.edu/. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** From West to East: Who can understand the music of the others better?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09795  
**Abstract:** Recent developments in MIR have led to several benchmark deep learning models whose embeddings can be used for a variety of downstream tasks. At the same time, the vast majority of these models have been trained on Western pop/rock music and related styles. This leads to research questions on whether these models can be used to learn representations for different music cultures and styles, or whether we can build similar music audio embedding models trained on data from different cultures or styles. To that end, we leverage transfer learning methods to derive insights about the similarities between the different music cultures to which the data belongs to. We use two Western music datasets, two traditional/folk datasets coming from eastern Mediterranean cultures, and two datasets belonging to Indian art music. Three deep audio embedding models are trained and transferred across domains, including two CNN-based and a Transformer-based architecture, to perform auto-tagging for each target domain dataset. Experimental results show that competitive performance is achieved in all domains via transfer learning, while the best source dataset varies for each music culture. The implementation and the trained models are both provided in a public repository. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** LDP: Language-driven Dual-Pixel Image Defocus Deblurring Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09815  
**Abstract:** Recovering sharp images from dual-pixel (DP) pairs with disparity-dependent blur is a challenging task.~Existing blur map-based deblurring methods have demonstrated promising results. In this paper, we propose, to the best of our knowledge, the first framework to introduce the contrastive language-image pre-training framework (CLIP) to achieve accurate blur map estimation from DP pairs unsupervisedly. To this end, we first carefully design text prompts to enable CLIP to understand blur-related geometric prior knowledge from the DP pair. Then, we propose a format to input stereo DP pair to the CLIP without any fine-tuning, where the CLIP is pre-trained on monocular images. Given the estimated blur map, we introduce a blur-prior attention block, a blur-weighting loss and a blur-aware loss to recover the all-in-focus image. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in extensive experiments. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** A Siamese-based Verification System for Open-set Architecture  Attribution of Synthetic Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09822  
**Abstract:** Despite the wide variety of methods developed for synthetic image attribution, most of them can only attribute images generated by models or architectures included in the training set and do not work with unknown architectures, hindering their applicability in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we propose a verification framework that relies on a Siamese Network to address the problem of open-set attribution of synthetic images to the architecture that generated them. We consider two different settings. In the first setting, the system determines whether two images have been produced by the same generative architecture or not. In the second setting, the system verifies a claim about the architecture used to generate a synthetic image, utilizing one or multiple reference images generated by the claimed architecture. The main strength of the proposed system is its ability to operate in both closed and open-set scenarios so that the input images, either the query and reference images, can belong to the architectures considered during training or not. Experimental evaluations encompassing various generative architectures such as GANs, diffusion models, and transformers, focusing on synthetic face image generation, confirm the excellent performance of our method in both closed and open-set settings, as well as its strong generalization capabilities. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** A Fast and Map-Free Model for Trajectory Prediction in Traffics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09831  
**Abstract:** To handle the two shortcomings of existing methods, (i)nearly all models rely on high-definition (HD) maps, yet the map information is not always available in real traffic scenes and HD map-building is expensive and time-consuming and (ii) existing models usually focus on improving prediction accuracy at the expense of reducing computing efficiency, yet the efficiency is crucial for various real applications, this paper proposes an efficient trajectory prediction model that is not dependent on traffic maps. The core idea of our model is encoding single-agent's spatial-temporal information in the first stage and exploring multi-agents' spatial-temporal interactions in the second stage. By comprehensively utilizing attention mechanism, LSTM, graph convolution network and temporal transformer in the two stages, our model is able to learn rich dynamic and interaction information of all agents. Our model achieves the highest performance when comparing with existing map-free methods and also exceeds most map-based state-of-the-art methods on the Argoverse dataset. In addition, our model also exhibits a faster inference speed than the baseline methods. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Magic NeRF Lens: Interactive Fusion of Neural Radiance Fields for  Virtual Facility Inspection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09860  
**Abstract:** Large industrial facilities such as particle accelerators and nuclear power plants are critical infrastructures for scientific research and industrial processes. These facilities are complex systems that not only require regular maintenance and upgrades but are often inaccessible to humans due to various safety hazards. Therefore, a virtual reality (VR) system that can quickly replicate real-world remote environments to provide users with a high level of spatial and situational awareness is crucial for facility maintenance planning. However, the exact 3D shapes of these facilities are often too complex to be accurately modeled with geometric primitives through the traditional rasterization pipeline. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** BSDM: Background Suppression Diffusion Model for Hyperspectral Anomaly  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09861  
**Abstract:** Hyperspectral anomaly detection (HAD) is widely used in Earth observation and deep space exploration. A major challenge for HAD is the complex background of the input hyperspectral images (HSIs), resulting in anomalies confused in the background. On the other hand, the lack of labeled samples for HSIs leads to poor generalization of existing HAD methods. This paper starts the first attempt to study a new and generalizable background learning problem without labeled samples. We present a novel solution BSDM (background suppression diffusion model) for HAD, which can simultaneously learn latent background distributions and generalize to different datasets for suppressing complex background. It is featured in three aspects: (1) For the complex background of HSIs, we design pseudo background noise and learn the potential background distribution in it with a diffusion model (DM). (2) For the generalizability problem, we apply a statistical offset module so that the BSDM adapts to datasets of different domains without labeling samples. (3) For achieving background suppression, we innovatively improve the inference process of DM by feeding the original HSIs into the denoising network, which removes the background as noise. Our work paves a new background suppression way for HAD that can improve HAD performance without the prerequisite of manually labeled data. Assessments and generalization experiments of four HAD methods on several real HSI datasets demonstrate the above three unique properties of the proposed method. The code is available at https://github.com/majitao-xd/BSDM-HAD. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Adversarial Likelihood Estimation with One-way Flows  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09882  
**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) can produce high-quality samples, but do not provide an estimate of the probability density around the samples. However, it has been noted that maximizing the log-likelihood within an energy-based setting can lead to an adversarial framework where the discriminator provides unnormalized density (often called energy). We further develop this perspective, incorporate importance sampling, and show that 1) Wasserstein GAN performs a biased estimate of the partition function, and we propose instead to use an unbiased estimator; 2) when optimizing for likelihood, one must maximize generator entropy. This is hypothesized to provide a better mode coverage. Different from previous works, we explicitly compute the density of the generated samples. This is the key enabler to designing an unbiased estimator of the partition function and computation of the generator entropy term. The generator density is obtained via a new type of flow network, called one-way flow network, that is less constrained in terms of architecture, as it does not require to have a tractable inverse function. Our experimental results show that we converge faster, produce comparable sample quality to GANs with similar architecture, successfully avoid over-fitting to commonly used datasets and produce smooth low-dimensional latent representations of the training data. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Symmetric Equilibrium Learning of VAEs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09883  
**Abstract:** We view variational autoencoders (VAE) as decoder-encoder pairs, which map distributions in the data space to distributions in the latent space and vice versa. The standard learning approach for VAEs, i.e. maximisation of the evidence lower bound (ELBO), has an obvious asymmetry in that respect. Moreover, it requires a closed form a-priori latent distribution. This limits the applicability of VAEs in more complex scenarios, such as general semi-supervised learning and employing complex generative models as priors. We propose a Nash equilibrium learning approach that relaxes these restrictions and allows learning VAEs in situations where both the data and the latent distributions are accessible only by sampling. The flexibility and simplicity of this approach allows its application to a wide range of learning scenarios and downstream tasks. We show experimentally that the models learned by this method are comparable to those obtained by ELBO learning and demonstrate its applicability for tasks that are not accessible by standard VAE learning. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Embedded Heterogeneous Attention Transformer for Cross-lingual Image  Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09915  
**Abstract:** Cross-lingual image captioning is confronted with both cross-lingual and cross-modal challenges for multimedia analysis. The crucial issue in this task is to model the global and local matching between the image and different languages. Existing cross-modal embedding methods based on Transformer architecture oversight the local matching between the image region and monolingual words, not to mention in the face of a variety of differentiated languages. Due to the heterogeneous property of the cross-modal and cross-lingual task, we utilize the heterogeneous network to establish cross-domain relationships and the local correspondences between the image and different languages. In this paper, we propose an Embedded Heterogeneous Attention Transformer (EHAT) to build reasoning paths bridging cross-domain for cross-lingual image captioning and integrate into transformer. The proposed EHAT consists of a Masked Heterogeneous Cross-attention (MHCA), Heterogeneous Attention Reasoning Network (HARN) and Heterogeneous Co-attention (HCA). HARN as the core network, models and infers cross-domain relationship anchored by vision bounding box representation features to connect two languages word features and learn the heterogeneous maps. MHCA and HCA implement cross-domain integration in the encoder through the special heterogeneous attention and enable single model to generate two language captioning. We test on MSCOCO dataset to generate English and Chinese, which are most widely used and have obvious difference between their language families. Our experiments show that our method even achieve better than advanced monolingual methods. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** XSkill: Cross Embodiment Skill Discovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09955  
**Abstract:** Human demonstration videos are a widely available data source for robot learning and an intuitive user interface for expressing desired behavior. However, directly extracting reusable robot manipulation skills from unstructured human videos is challenging due to the big embodiment difference and unobserved action parameters. To bridge this embodiment gap, this paper introduces XSkill, an imitation learning framework that 1) discovers a cross-embodiment representation called skill prototypes purely from unlabeled human and robot manipulation videos, 2) transfers the skill representation to robot actions using conditional diffusion policy, and finally, 3) composes the learned skill to accomplish unseen tasks specified by a human prompt video. Our experiments in simulation and real-world environments show that the discovered skill prototypes facilitate both skill transfer and composition for unseen tasks, resulting in a more general and scalable imitation learning framework. The performance of XSkill is best understood from the anonymous website: https://xskillcorl.github.io. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** GUIDO: A Hybrid Approach to Guideline Discovery & Ordering from Natural  Language Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09959  
**Abstract:** Extracting workflow nets from textual descriptions can be used to simplify guidelines or formalize textual descriptions of formal processes like business processes and algorithms. The task of manually extracting processes, however, requires domain expertise and effort. While automatic process model extraction is desirable, annotating texts with formalized process models is expensive. Therefore, there are only a few machine-learning-based extraction approaches. Rule-based approaches, in turn, require domain specificity to work well and can rarely distinguish relevant and irrelevant information in textual descriptions. In this paper, we present GUIDO, a hybrid approach to the process model extraction task that first, classifies sentences regarding their relevance to the process model, using a BERT-based sentence classifier, and second, extracts a process model from the sentences classified as relevant, using dependency parsing. The presented approach achieves significantly better results than a pure rule-based approach. GUIDO achieves an average behavioral similarity score of $0.93$. Still, in comparison to purely machine-learning-based approaches, the annotation costs stay low. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Fine-grained Text-Video Retrieval with Frozen Image Encoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09972  
**Abstract:** State-of-the-art text-video retrieval (TVR) methods typically utilize CLIP and cosine similarity for efficient retrieval. Meanwhile, cross attention methods, which employ a transformer decoder to compute attention between each text query and all frames in a video, offer a more comprehensive interaction between text and videos. However, these methods lack important fine-grained spatial information as they directly compute attention between text and video-level tokens. To address this issue, we propose CrossTVR, a two-stage text-video retrieval architecture. In the first stage, we leverage existing TVR methods with cosine similarity network for efficient text/video candidate selection. In the second stage, we propose a novel decoupled video text cross attention module to capture fine-grained multimodal information in spatial and temporal dimensions. Additionally, we employ the frozen CLIP model strategy in fine-grained retrieval, enabling scalability to larger pre-trained vision models like ViT-G, resulting in improved retrieval performance. Experiments on text video retrieval datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and scalability of our proposed CrossTVR compared to state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Impact of Disentanglement on Pruning Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09994  
**Abstract:** Deploying deep learning neural networks on edge devices, to accomplish task specific objectives in the real-world, requires a reduction in their memory footprint, power consumption, and latency. This can be realized via efficient model compression. Disentangled latent representations produced by variational autoencoder (VAE) networks are a promising approach for achieving model compression because they mainly retain task-specific information, discarding useless information for the task at hand. We make use of the Beta-VAE framework combined with a standard criterion for pruning to investigate the impact of forcing the network to learn disentangled representations on the pruning process for the task of classification. In particular, we perform experiments on MNIST and CIFAR10 datasets, examine disentanglement challenges, and propose a path forward for future works. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Generating Mathematical Derivations with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09998  
**Abstract:** The derivation of mathematical results in specialised fields using Large Language Models (LLMs) is an emerging research direction that can help identify models' limitations, and potentially support mathematical discovery. In this paper, we leverage a symbolic engine to generate derivations of equations at scale, and investigate the capabilities of LLMs when deriving goal equations from premises. Specifically, we employ in-context learning for GPT and fine-tune a range of T5 models to compare the robustness and generalisation of pre-training strategies to specialised models. Empirical results show that fine-tuned FLAN-T5-large (MathT5) outperforms GPT models on all static and out-of-distribution test sets in terms of absolute performance. However, an in-depth analysis reveals that the fine-tuned models are more sensitive to perturbations involving unseen symbols and (to a lesser extent) changes to equation structure. In addition, we analyse 1.7K equations and over 200 derivations to highlight common reasoning errors such as the inclusion of incorrect, irrelevant, and redundant equations, along with the tendency to skip derivation steps. Finally, we explore the suitability of existing metrics for evaluating mathematical derivations finding evidence that, while they capture general properties such as sensitivity to perturbations, they fail to highlight fine-grained reasoning errors and essential differences between models. Overall, this work demonstrates that training models on synthetic data can improve their mathematical capabilities beyond larger architectures. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Divert More Attention to Vision-Language Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10046  
**Abstract:** Multimodal vision-language (VL) learning has noticeably pushed the tendency toward generic intelligence owing to emerging large foundation models. However, tracking, as a fundamental vision problem, surprisingly enjoys less bonus from recent flourishing VL learning. We argue that the reasons are two-fold: the lack of large-scale vision-language annotated videos and ineffective vision-language interaction learning of current works. These nuisances motivate us to design more effective vision-language representation for tracking, meanwhile constructing a large database with language annotation for model learning. Particularly, in this paper, we first propose a general attribute annotation strategy to decorate videos in six popular tracking benchmarks, which contributes a large-scale vision-language tracking database with more than 23,000 videos. We then introduce a novel framework to improve tracking by learning a unified-adaptive VL representation, where the cores are the proposed asymmetric architecture search and modality mixer (ModaMixer). To further improve VL representation, we introduce a contrastive loss to align different modalities. To thoroughly evidence the effectiveness of our method, we integrate the proposed framework on three tracking methods with different designs, i.e., the CNN-based SiamCAR, the Transformer-based OSTrack, and the hybrid structure TransT. The experiments demonstrate that our framework can significantly improve all baselines on six benchmarks. Besides empirical results, we theoretically analyze our approach to show its rationality. By revealing the potential of VL representation, we expect the community to divert more attention to VL tracking and hope to open more possibilities for future tracking with diversified multimodal messages. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** General vs. Long-Tailed Age Estimation: An Approach to Kill Two Birds  with One Stone  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10129  
**Abstract:** Facial age estimation has received a lot of attention for its diverse application scenarios. Most existing studies treat each sample equally and aim to reduce the average estimation error for the entire dataset, which can be summarized as General Age Estimation. However, due to the long-tailed distribution prevalent in the dataset, treating all samples equally will inevitably bias the model toward the head classes (usually the adult with a majority of samples). Driven by this, some works suggest that each class should be treated equally to improve performance in tail classes (with a minority of samples), which can be summarized as Long-tailed Age Estimation. However, Long-tailed Age Estimation usually faces a performance trade-off, i.e., achieving improvement in tail classes by sacrificing the head classes. In this paper, our goal is to design a unified framework to perform well on both tasks, killing two birds with one stone. To this end, we propose a simple, effective, and flexible training paradigm named GLAE, which is two-fold. Our GLAE provides a surprising improvement on Morph II, reaching the lowest MAE and CMAE of 1.14 and 1.27 years, respectively. Compared to the previous best method, MAE dropped by up to 34%, which is an unprecedented improvement, and for the first time, MAE is close to 1 year old. Extensive experiments on other age benchmark datasets, including CACD, MIVIA, and Chalearn LAP 2015, also indicate that GLAE outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches significantly. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** An Improved NeuMIP with Better Accuracy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10135  
**Abstract:** Neural reflectance models are capable of accurately reproducing the spatially-varying appearance of many real-world materials at different scales. However, existing methods have difficulties handling highly glossy materials. To address this problem, we introduce a new neural reflectance model which, compared with existing methods, better preserves not only specular highlights but also fine-grained details. To this end, we enhance the neural network performance by encoding input data to frequency space, inspired by NeRF, to better preserve the details. Furthermore, we introduce a gradient-based loss and employ it in multiple stages, adaptive to the progress of the learning phase. Lastly, we utilize an optional extension to the decoder network using the Inception module for more accurate yet costly performance. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method using a variety of synthetic and real examples. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Exploring Transformer Extrapolation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10156  
**Abstract:** Length extrapolation has attracted considerable attention recently since it allows transformers to be tested on longer sequences than those used in training. Previous research has shown that this property can be attained by using carefully designed Relative Positional Encodings (RPEs). While these methods perform well on a variety of corpora, the conditions for length extrapolation have yet to be investigated. This paper attempts to determine what types of RPEs allow for length extrapolation through a thorough mathematical and empirical analysis. We discover that a transformer is certain to possess this property as long as the series that corresponds to the RPE's exponential converges. Two practices are derived from the conditions and examined in language modeling tasks on a variety of corpora. As a bonus from the conditions, we derive a new Theoretical Receptive Field (TRF) to measure the receptive field of RPEs without taking any training steps. Extensive experiments are conducted on the Wikitext-103, Books, Github, and WikiBook datasets to demonstrate the viability of our discovered conditions. We also compare TRF to Empirical Receptive Field (ERF) across different models, showing consistently matched trends on the aforementioned datasets. The code is available at https://github.com/OpenNLPLab/Rpe. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** FABRIC: Personalizing Diffusion Models with Iterative Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10159  
**Abstract:** In an era where visual content generation is increasingly driven by machine learning, the integration of human feedback into generative models presents significant opportunities for enhancing user experience and output quality. This study explores strategies for incorporating iterative human feedback into the generative process of diffusion-based text-to-image models. We propose FABRIC, a training-free approach applicable to a wide range of popular diffusion models, which exploits the self-attention layer present in the most widely used architectures to condition the diffusion process on a set of feedback images. To ensure a rigorous assessment of our approach, we introduce a comprehensive evaluation methodology, offering a robust mechanism to quantify the performance of generative visual models that integrate human feedback. We show that generation results improve over multiple rounds of iterative feedback through exhaustive analysis, implicitly optimizing arbitrary user preferences. The potential applications of these findings extend to fields such as personalized content creation and customization. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** DreaMR: Diffusion-driven Counterfactual Explanation for Functional MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09547  
**Abstract:** Deep learning analyses have offered sensitivity leaps in detection of cognitive states from functional MRI (fMRI) measurements across the brain. Yet, as deep models perform hierarchical nonlinear transformations on their input, interpreting the association between brain responses and cognitive states is challenging. Among common explanation approaches for deep fMRI classifiers, attribution methods show poor specificity and perturbation methods show limited plausibility. While counterfactual generation promises to address these limitations, previous methods use variational or adversarial priors that yield suboptimal sample fidelity. Here, we introduce the first diffusion-driven counterfactual method, DreaMR, to enable fMRI interpretation with high specificity, plausibility and fidelity. DreaMR performs diffusion-based resampling of an input fMRI sample to alter the decision of a downstream classifier, and then computes the minimal difference between the original and counterfactual samples for explanation. Unlike conventional diffusion methods, DreaMR leverages a novel fractional multi-phase-distilled diffusion prior to improve sampling efficiency without compromising fidelity, and it employs a transformer architecture to account for long-range spatiotemporal context in fMRI scans. Comprehensive experiments on neuroimaging datasets demonstrate the superior specificity, fidelity and efficiency of DreaMR in sample generation over state-of-the-art counterfactual methods for fMRI interpretation. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Transformer-based Dual-domain Network for Few-view Dedicated Cardiac  SPECT Image Reconstructions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09624  
**Abstract:** Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide, and myocardial perfusion imaging using SPECT has been widely used in the diagnosis of CVDs. The GE 530/570c dedicated cardiac SPECT scanners adopt a stationary geometry to simultaneously acquire 19 projections to increase sensitivity and achieve dynamic imaging. However, the limited amount of angular sampling negatively affects image quality. Deep learning methods can be implemented to produce higher-quality images from stationary data. This is essentially a few-view imaging problem. In this work, we propose a novel 3D transformer-based dual-domain network, called TIP-Net, for high-quality 3D cardiac SPECT image reconstructions. Our method aims to first reconstruct 3D cardiac SPECT images directly from projection data without the iterative reconstruction process by proposing a customized projection-to-image domain transformer. Then, given its reconstruction output and the original few-view reconstruction, we further refine the reconstruction using an image-domain reconstruction network. Validated by cardiac catheterization images, diagnostic interpretations from nuclear cardiologists, and defect size quantified by an FDA 510(k)-cleared clinical software, our method produced images with higher cardiac defect contrast on human studies compared with previous baseline methods, potentially enabling high-quality defect visualization using stationary few-view dedicated cardiac SPECT scanners. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Perturbing a Neural Network to Infer Effective Connectivity: Evidence  from Synthetic EEG Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09770  
**Abstract:** Identifying causal relationships among distinct brain areas, known as effective connectivity, holds key insights into the brain's information processing and cognitive functions. Electroencephalogram (EEG) signals exhibit intricate dynamics and inter-areal interactions within the brain. However, methods for characterizing nonlinear causal interactions among multiple brain regions remain relatively underdeveloped. In this study, we proposed a data-driven framework to infer effective connectivity by perturbing the trained neural networks. Specifically, we trained neural networks (i.e., CNN, vanilla RNN, GRU, LSTM, and Transformer) to predict future EEG signals according to historical data and perturbed the networks' input to obtain effective connectivity (EC) between the perturbed EEG channel and the rest of the channels. The EC reflects the causal impact of perturbing one node on others. The performance was tested on the synthetic EEG generated by a biological-plausible Jansen-Rit model. CNN and Transformer obtained the best performance on both 3-channel and 90-channel synthetic EEG data, outperforming the classical Granger causality method. Our work demonstrated the potential of perturbing an artificial neural network, learned to predict future system dynamics, to uncover the underlying causal structure. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** DiffDP: Radiotherapy Dose Prediction via a Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09794  
**Abstract:** Currently, deep learning (DL) has achieved the automatic prediction of dose distribution in radiotherapy planning, enhancing its efficiency and quality. However, existing methods suffer from the over-smoothing problem for their commonly used L_1 or L_2 loss with posterior average calculations. To alleviate this limitation, we innovatively introduce a diffusion-based dose prediction (DiffDP) model for predicting the radiotherapy dose distribution of cancer patients. Specifically, the DiffDP model contains a forward process and a reverse process. In the forward process, DiffDP gradually transforms dose distribution maps into Gaussian noise by adding small noise and trains a noise predictor to predict the noise added in each timestep. In the reverse process, it removes the noise from the original Gaussian noise in multiple steps with the well-trained noise predictor and finally outputs the predicted dose distribution map. To ensure the accuracy of the prediction, we further design a structure encoder to extract anatomical information from patient anatomy images and enable the noise predictor to be aware of the dose constraints within several essential organs, i.e., the planning target volume and organs at risk. Extensive experiments on an in-house dataset with 130 rectum cancer patients demonstrate the s 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Modelling the Spatial Spread of COVID-19 in aGerman District using a  Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.09956  
**Abstract:** In this study, we present an integro-differential model to simulate the local spread of infections. The model incorporates a standard susceptible-infected-recovered (\textit{SIR}-) model enhanced by an integral kernel, allowing for non-homogeneous mixing between susceptibles and infectives. We define requirements for the kernel function and derive analytical results for both the \textit{SIR}- and a reduced susceptible-infected-susceptible (\textit{SIS}-) model, especially the uniqueness of solutions. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Make-A-Volume: Leveraging Latent Diffusion Models for Cross-Modality 3D  Brain MRI Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10094  
**Abstract:** Cross-modality medical image synthesis is a critical topic and has the potential to facilitate numerous applications in the medical imaging field. Despite recent successes in deep-learning-based generative models, most current medical image synthesis methods rely on generative adversarial networks and suffer from notorious mode collapse and unstable training. Moreover, the 2D backbone-driven approaches would easily result in volumetric inconsistency, while 3D backbones are challenging and impractical due to the tremendous memory cost and training difficulty. In this paper, we introduce a new paradigm for volumetric medical data synthesis by leveraging 2D backbones and present a diffusion-based framework, Make-A-Volume, for cross-modality 3D medical image synthesis. To learn the cross-modality slice-wise mapping, we employ a latent diffusion model and learn a low-dimensional latent space, resulting in high computational efficiency. To enable the 3D image synthesis and mitigate volumetric inconsistency, we further insert a series of volumetric layers in the 2D slice-mapping model and fine-tune them with paired 3D data. This paradigm extends the 2D image diffusion model to a volumetric version with a slightly increasing number of parameters and computation, offering a principled solution for generic cross-modality 3D medical image synthesis. We showcase the effectiveness of our Make-A-Volume framework on an in-house SWI-MRA brain MRI dataset and a public T1-T2 brain MRI dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that our framework achieves superior synthesis results with volumetric consistency. 

