**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Several categories of Large Language Models (LLMs): A Short Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10188  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models(LLMs)have become effective tools for natural language processing and have been used in many different fields. This essay offers a succinct summary of various LLM subcategories. The survey emphasizes recent developments and efforts made for various LLM kinds, including task-based financial LLMs, multilingual language LLMs, biomedical and clinical LLMs, vision language LLMs, and code language models. The survey gives a general summary of the methods, attributes, datasets, transformer models, and comparison metrics applied in each category of LLMs. Furthermore, it highlights unresolved problems in the field of developing chatbots and virtual assistants, such as boosting natural language processing, enhancing chatbot intelligence, and resolving moral and legal dilemmas. The purpose of this study is to provide readers, developers, academics, and users interested in LLM-based chatbots and virtual intelligent assistant technologies with useful information and future directions. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** ChatGPT for Digital Forensic Investigation: The Good, The Bad, and The  Unknown  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10195  
**Abstract:** The disruptive application of ChatGPT (GPT-3.5, GPT-4) to a variety of domains has become a topic of much discussion in the scientific community and society at large. Large Language Models (LLMs), e.g., BERT, Bard, Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPTs), LLaMA, etc., have the ability to take instructions, or prompts, from users and generate answers and solutions based on very large volumes of text-based training data. This paper assesses the impact and potential impact of ChatGPT on the field of digital forensics, specifically looking at its latest pre-trained LLM, GPT-4. A series of experiments are conducted to assess its capability across several digital forensic use cases including artefact understanding, evidence searching, code generation, anomaly detection, incident response, and education. Across these topics, its strengths and risks are outlined and a number of general conclusions are drawn. Overall this paper concludes that while there are some potential low-risk applications of ChatGPT within digital forensics, many are either unsuitable at present, since the evidence would need to be uploaded to the service, or they require sufficient knowledge of the topic being asked of the tool to identify incorrect assumptions, inaccuracies, and mistakes. However, to an appropriately knowledgeable user, it could act as a useful supporting tool in some circumstances. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Time for aCTIon: Automated Analysis of Cyber Threat Intelligence in the  Wild  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10214  
**Abstract:** Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) plays a crucial role in assessing risks and enhancing security for organizations. However, the process of extracting relevant information from unstructured text sources can be expensive and time-consuming. Our empirical experience shows that existing tools for automated structured CTI extraction have performance limitations. Furthermore, the community lacks a common benchmark to quantitatively assess their performance. We fill these gaps providing a new large open benchmark dataset and aCTIon, a structured CTI information extraction tool. The dataset includes 204 real-world publicly available reports and their corresponding structured CTI information in STIX format. Our team curated the dataset involving three independent groups of CTI analysts working over the course of several months. To the best of our knowledge, this dataset is two orders of magnitude larger than previously released open source datasets. We then design aCTIon, leveraging recently introduced large language models (GPT3.5) in the context of two custom information extraction pipelines. We compare our method with 10 solutions presented in previous work, for which we develop our own implementations when open-source implementations were lacking. Our results show that aCTIon outperforms previous work for structured CTI extraction with an improvement of the F1-score from 10%points to 50%points across all tasks. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** RayMVSNet++: Learning Ray-based 1D Implicit Fields for Accurate  Multi-View Stereo  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10233  
**Abstract:** Learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) has by far centered around 3D convolution on cost volumes. Due to the high computation and memory consumption of 3D CNN, the resolution of output depth is often considerably limited. Different from most existing works dedicated to adaptive refinement of cost volumes, we opt to directly optimize the depth value along each camera ray, mimicking the range finding of a laser scanner. This reduces the MVS problem to ray-based depth optimization which is much more light-weight than full cost volume optimization. In particular, we propose RayMVSNet which learns sequential prediction of a 1D implicit field along each camera ray with the zero-crossing point indicating scene depth. This sequential modeling, conducted based on transformer features, essentially learns the epipolar line search in traditional multi-view stereo. We devise a multi-task learning for better optimization convergence and depth accuracy. We found the monotonicity property of the SDFs along each ray greatly benefits the depth estimation. Our method ranks top on both the DTU and the Tanks & Temples datasets over all previous learning-based methods, achieving an overall reconstruction score of 0.33mm on DTU and an F-score of 59.48% on Tanks & Temples. It is able to produce high-quality depth estimation and point cloud reconstruction in challenging scenarios such as objects/scenes with non-textured surface, severe occlusion, and highly varying depth range. Further, we propose RayMVSNet++ to enhance contextual feature aggregation for each ray through designing an attentional gating unit to select semantically relevant neighboring rays within the local frustum around that ray. RayMVSNet++ achieves state-of-the-art performance on the ScanNet dataset. In particular, it attains an AbsRel of 0.058m and produces accurate results on the two subsets of textureless regions and large depth variation. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** SentimentGPT: Exploiting GPT for Advanced Sentiment Analysis and its  Departure from Current Machine Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10234  
**Abstract:** This study presents a thorough examination of various Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT) methodologies in sentiment analysis, specifically in the context of Task 4 on the SemEval 2017 dataset. Three primary strategies are employed: 1) prompt engineering using the advanced GPT-3.5 Turbo, 2) fine-tuning GPT models, and 3) an inventive approach to embedding classification. The research yields detailed comparative insights among these strategies and individual GPT models, revealing their unique strengths and potential limitations. Additionally, the study compares these GPT-based methodologies with other contemporary, high-performing models previously used with the same dataset. The results illustrate the significant superiority of the GPT approaches in terms of predictive performance, more than 22% in F1-score compared to the state-of-the-art. Further, the paper addresses common challenges in sentiment analysis tasks, such as understanding context and detecting sarcasm. It underscores the enhanced capabilities of the GPT models to effectively navigate these complexities. Collectively, these findings highlight the promising potential of GPT models in sentiment analysis, setting the stage for future research in this field. The code can be found at https://github.com/DSAatUSU/SentimentGPT. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Measuring Online Emotional Reactions to Offline Events  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10245  
**Abstract:** The rich and dynamic information environment on social media provides researchers, policy makers, and entrepreneurs with opportunities to learn about social phenomena in a timely manner. However, using this data to understand human affect and behavior poses multiple challenges, such as heterogeneity of topics and events discussed in the highly dynamic online information environment. To address these challenges, we present a methodology for systematically detecting and measuring emotional reactions to offline events using change point detection on the time series of collective affect, and further explaining these reactions using a transformer-based topic model. We demonstrate the utility of the methodology on a corpus of tweets collected from a large US metropolitan area between January and August, 2020, covering a period of great social change, including the COVID-19 pandemic and racial justice protests. We demonstrate that our method is able to disaggregate topics to measure population's emotional and moral reactions to events. This capability allows for better monitoring of population's reactions to offline events using online data. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Abductive Reasoning with the GPT-4 Language Model: Case studies from  criminal investigation, medical practice, scientific research  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10250  
**Abstract:** This study evaluates the GPT-4 Large Language Model's abductive reasoning in complex fields like medical diagnostics, criminology, and cosmology. Using an interactive interview format, the AI assistant demonstrated reliability in generating and selecting hypotheses. It inferred plausible medical diagnoses based on patient data and provided potential causes and explanations in criminology and cosmology. The results highlight the potential of LLMs in complex problem-solving and the need for further research to maximize their practical applications. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Semi-supervised Cycle-GAN for face photo-sketch translation in the wild  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10281  
**Abstract:** The performance of face photo-sketch translation has improved a lot thanks to deep neural networks. GAN based methods trained on paired images can produce high-quality results under laboratory settings. Such paired datasets are, however, often very small and lack diversity. Meanwhile, Cycle-GANs trained with unpaired photo-sketch datasets suffer from the \emph{steganography} phenomenon, which makes them not effective to face photos in the wild. In this paper, we introduce a semi-supervised approach with a noise-injection strategy, named Semi-Cycle-GAN (SCG), to tackle these problems. For the first problem, we propose a {\em pseudo sketch feature} representation for each input photo composed from a small reference set of photo-sketch pairs, and use the resulting {\em pseudo pairs} to supervise a photo-to-sketch generator $G_{p2s}$. The outputs of $G_{p2s}$ can in turn help to train a sketch-to-photo generator $G_{s2p}$ in a self-supervised manner. This allows us to train $G_{p2s}$ and $G_{s2p}$ using a small reference set of photo-sketch pairs together with a large face photo dataset (without ground-truth sketches). For the second problem, we show that the simple noise-injection strategy works well to alleviate the \emph{steganography} effect in SCG and helps to produce more reasonable sketch-to-photo results with less overfitting than fully supervised approaches. Experiments show that SCG achieves competitive performance on public benchmarks and superior results on photos in the wild. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Interpretable Timbre Synthesis using Variational Autoencoders  Regularized on Timbre Descriptors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10283  
**Abstract:** Controllable timbre synthesis has been a subject of research for several decades, and deep neural networks have been the most successful in this area. Deep generative models such as Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) have the ability to generate a high-level representation of audio while providing a structured latent space. Despite their advantages, the interpretability of these latent spaces in terms of human perception is often limited. To address this limitation and enhance the control over timbre generation, we propose a regularized VAE-based latent space that incorporates timbre descriptors. Moreover, we suggest a more concise representation of sound by utilizing its harmonic content, in order to minimize the dimensionality of the latent space. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Polyffusion: A Diffusion Model for Polyphonic Score Generation with  Internal and External Controls  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10304  
**Abstract:** We propose Polyffusion, a diffusion model that generates polyphonic music scores by regarding music as image-like piano roll representations. The model is capable of controllable music generation with two paradigms: internal control and external control. Internal control refers to the process in which users pre-define a part of the music and then let the model infill the rest, similar to the task of masked music generation (or music inpainting). External control conditions the model with external yet related information, such as chord, texture, or other features, via the cross-attention mechanism. We show that by using internal and external controls, Polyffusion unifies a wide range of music creation tasks, including melody generation given accompaniment, accompaniment generation given melody, arbitrary music segment inpainting, and music arrangement given chords or textures. Experimental results show that our model significantly outperforms existing Transformer and sampling-based baselines, and using pre-trained disentangled representations as external conditions yields more effective controls. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** CPCM: Contextual Point Cloud Modeling for Weakly-supervised Point Cloud  Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10316  
**Abstract:** We study the task of weakly-supervised point cloud semantic segmentation with sparse annotations (e.g., less than 0.1% points are labeled), aiming to reduce the expensive cost of dense annotations. Unfortunately, with extremely sparse annotated points, it is very difficult to extract both contextual and object information for scene understanding such as semantic segmentation. Motivated by masked modeling (e.g., MAE) in image and video representation learning, we seek to endow the power of masked modeling to learn contextual information from sparsely-annotated points. However, directly applying MAE to 3D point clouds with sparse annotations may fail to work. First, it is nontrivial to effectively mask out the informative visual context from 3D point clouds. Second, how to fully exploit the sparse annotations for context modeling remains an open question. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective Contextual Point Cloud Modeling (CPCM) method that consists of two parts: a region-wise masking (RegionMask) strategy and a contextual masked training (CMT) method. Specifically, RegionMask masks the point cloud continuously in geometric space to construct a meaningful masked prediction task for subsequent context learning. CMT disentangles the learning of supervised segmentation and unsupervised masked context prediction for effectively learning the very limited labeled points and mass unlabeled points, respectively. Extensive experiments on the widely-tested ScanNet V2 and S3DIS benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of CPCM over the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Improving Multimodal Datasets with Image Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10350  
**Abstract:** Massive web datasets play a key role in the success of large vision-language models like CLIP and Flamingo. However, the raw web data is noisy, and existing filtering methods to reduce noise often come at the expense of data diversity. Our work focuses on caption quality as one major source of noise, and studies how generated captions can increase the utility of web-scraped datapoints with nondescript text. Through exploring different mixing strategies for raw and generated captions, we outperform the best filtering method proposed by the DataComp benchmark by 2% on ImageNet and 4% on average across 38 tasks, given a candidate pool of 128M image-text pairs. Our best approach is also 2x better at Flickr and MS-COCO retrieval. We then analyze what makes synthetic captions an effective source of text supervision. In experimenting with different image captioning models, we also demonstrate that the performance of a model on standard image captioning benchmarks (e.g., NoCaps CIDEr) is not a reliable indicator of the utility of the captions it generates for multimodal training. Finally, our experiments with using generated captions at DataComp's large scale (1.28B image-text pairs) offer insights into the limitations of synthetic text, as well as the importance of image curation with increasing training data quantity. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** TokenFlow: Consistent Diffusion Features for Consistent Video Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10373  
**Abstract:** The generative AI revolution has recently expanded to videos. Nevertheless, current state-of-the-art video models are still lagging behind image models in terms of visual quality and user control over the generated content. In this work, we present a framework that harnesses the power of a text-to-image diffusion model for the task of text-driven video editing. Specifically, given a source video and a target text-prompt, our method generates a high-quality video that adheres to the target text, while preserving the spatial layout and motion of the input video. Our method is based on a key observation that consistency in the edited video can be obtained by enforcing consistency in the diffusion feature space. We achieve this by explicitly propagating diffusion features based on inter-frame correspondences, readily available in the model. Thus, our framework does not require any training or fine-tuning, and can work in conjunction with any off-the-shelf text-to-image editing method. We demonstrate state-of-the-art editing results on a variety of real-world videos. Webpage: https://diffusion-tokenflow.github.io/ 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Generative Visual Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10405  
**Abstract:** Multi-modal tasks involving vision and language in deep learning continue to rise in popularity and are leading to the development of newer models that can generalize beyond the extent of their training data. The current models lack temporal generalization which enables models to adapt to changes in future data. This paper discusses a viable approach to creating an advanced Visual Question Answering (VQA) model which can produce successful results on temporal generalization. We propose a new data set, GenVQA, utilizing images and captions from the VQAv2 and MS-COCO dataset to generate new images through stable diffusion. This augmented dataset is then used to test a combination of seven baseline and cutting edge VQA models. Performance evaluation focuses on questions mirroring the original VQAv2 dataset, with the answers having been adjusted to the new images. This paper's purpose is to investigate the robustness of several successful VQA models to assess their performance on future data distributions. Model architectures are analyzed to identify common stylistic choices that improve generalization under temporal distribution shifts. This research highlights the importance of creating a large-scale future shifted dataset. This data can enhance the robustness of VQA models, allowing their future peers to have improved ability to adapt to temporal distribution shifts. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** PreDiff: Precipitation Nowcasting with Latent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10422  
**Abstract:** Earth system forecasting has traditionally relied on complex physical models that are computationally expensive and require significant domain expertise. In the past decade, the unprecedented increase in spatiotemporal Earth observation data has enabled data-driven forecasting models using deep learning techniques. These models have shown promise for diverse Earth system forecasting tasks but either struggle with handling uncertainty or neglect domain-specific prior knowledge, resulting in averaging possible futures to blurred forecasts or generating physically implausible predictions. To address these limitations, we propose a two-stage pipeline for probabilistic spatiotemporal forecasting: 1) We develop PreDiff, a conditional latent diffusion model capable of probabilistic forecasts. 2) We incorporate an explicit knowledge control mechanism to align forecasts with domain-specific physical constraints. This is achieved by estimating the deviation from imposed constraints at each denoising step and adjusting the transition distribution accordingly. We conduct empirical studies on two datasets: N-body MNIST, a synthetic dataset with chaotic behavior, and SEVIR, a real-world precipitation nowcasting dataset. Specifically, we impose the law of conservation of energy in N-body MNIST and anticipated precipitation intensity in SEVIR. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of PreDiff in handling uncertainty, incorporating domain-specific prior knowledge, and generating forecasts that exhibit high operational utility. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** DP-TBART: A Transformer-based Autoregressive Model for Differentially  Private Tabular Data Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10430  
**Abstract:** The generation of synthetic tabular data that preserves differential privacy is a problem of growing importance. While traditional marginal-based methods have achieved impressive results, recent work has shown that deep learning-based approaches tend to lag behind. In this work, we present Differentially-Private TaBular AutoRegressive Transformer (DP-TBART), a transformer-based autoregressive model that maintains differential privacy and achieves performance competitive with marginal-based methods on a wide variety of datasets, capable of even outperforming state-of-the-art methods in certain settings. We also provide a theoretical framework for understanding the limitations of marginal-based approaches and where deep learning-based approaches stand to contribute most. These results suggest that deep learning-based techniques should be considered as a viable alternative to marginal-based methods in the generation of differentially private synthetic tabular data. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** PharmacyGPT: The AI Pharmacist  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10432  
**Abstract:** In this study, we introduce PharmacyGPT, a novel framework to assess the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4 in emulating the role of clinical pharmacists. Our methodology encompasses the utilization of LLMs to generate comprehensible patient clusters, formulate medication plans, and forecast patient outcomes. We conduct our investigation using real data acquired from the intensive care unit (ICU) at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill (UNC) Hospital. Our analysis offers valuable insights into the potential applications and limitations of LLMs in the field of clinical pharmacy, with implications for both patient care and the development of future AI-driven healthcare solutions. By evaluating the performance of PharmacyGPT, we aim to contribute to the ongoing discourse surrounding the integration of artificial intelligence in healthcare settings, ultimately promoting the responsible and efficacious use of such technologies. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Integrating a Heterogeneous Graph with Entity-aware Self-attention using  Relative Position Labels for Reading Comprehension Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10443  
**Abstract:** Despite the significant progress made by transformer models in machine reading comprehension tasks, they still face limitations in handling complex reasoning tasks due to the absence of explicit knowledge in the input sequence. This paper proposes a novel attention pattern to overcome this limitation, which integrates reasoning knowledge derived from a heterogeneous graph into the transformer architecture using a graph-enhanced self-attention mechanism. The proposed attention pattern comprises three key elements: global-local attention for word tokens, graph attention for entity tokens that exhibit strong attention towards tokens connected in the graph as opposed to those unconnected, and the consideration of the type of relationship between each entity token and word token. This results in optimized attention between the two if a relationship exists. The pattern is coupled with special relative position labels, allowing it to integrate with LUKE's entity-aware self-attention mechanism. The experimental findings corroborate that our model outperforms both the cutting-edge LUKE-Graph and the baseline LUKE model on the ReCoRD dataset that focuses on commonsense reasoning. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Findings of Factify 2: Multimodal Fake News Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10475  
**Abstract:** With social media usage growing exponentially in the past few years, fake news has also become extremely prevalent. The detrimental impact of fake news emphasizes the need for research focused on automating the detection of false information and verifying its accuracy. In this work, we present the outcome of the Factify 2 shared task, which provides a multi-modal fact verification and satire news dataset, as part of the DeFactify 2 workshop at AAAI'23. The data calls for a comparison based approach to the task by pairing social media claims with supporting documents, with both text and image, divided into 5 classes based on multi-modal relations. In the second iteration of this task we had over 60 participants and 9 final test-set submissions. The best performances came from the use of DeBERTa for text and Swinv2 and CLIP for image. The highest F1 score averaged for all five classes was 81.82%. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** FinGPT: Democratizing Internet-scale Data for Financial Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10485  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in understanding and generating human-like texts, which may potentially revolutionize the finance industry. However, existing LLMs often fall short in the financial field, which is mainly attributed to the disparities between general text data and financial text data. Unfortunately, there is only a limited number of financial text datasets available (quite small size), and BloombergGPT, the first financial LLM (FinLLM), is close-sourced (only the training logs were released). In light of this, we aim to democratize Internet-scale financial data for LLMs, which is an open challenge due to diverse data sources, low signal-to-noise ratio, and high time-validity. To address the challenges, we introduce an open-sourced and data-centric framework, \textit{Financial Generative Pre-trained Transformer (FinGPT)}, that automates the collection and curation of real-time financial data from >34 diverse sources on the Internet, providing researchers and practitioners with accessible and transparent resources to develop their FinLLMs. Additionally, we propose a simple yet effective strategy for fine-tuning FinLLM using the inherent feedback from the market, dubbed Reinforcement Learning with Stock Prices (RLSP). We also adopt the Low-rank Adaptation (LoRA, QLoRA) method that enables users to customize their own FinLLMs from open-source general-purpose LLMs at a low cost. Finally, we showcase several FinGPT applications, including robo-advisor, sentiment analysis for algorithmic trading, and low-code development. FinGPT aims to democratize FinLLMs, stimulate innovation, and unlock new opportunities in open finance. The codes are available at https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinGPT and https://github.com/AI4Finance-Foundation/FinNLP 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** SPRINT: A Unified Toolkit for Evaluating and Demystifying Zero-shot  Neural Sparse Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10488  
**Abstract:** Traditionally, sparse retrieval systems relied on lexical representations to retrieve documents, such as BM25, dominated information retrieval tasks. With the onset of pre-trained transformer models such as BERT, neural sparse retrieval has led to a new paradigm within retrieval. Despite the success, there has been limited software supporting different sparse retrievers running in a unified, common environment. This hinders practitioners from fairly comparing different sparse models and obtaining realistic evaluation results. Another missing piece is, that a majority of prior work evaluates sparse retrieval models on in-domain retrieval, i.e. on a single dataset: MS MARCO. However, a key requirement in practical retrieval systems requires models that can generalize well to unseen out-of-domain, i.e. zero-shot retrieval tasks. In this work, we provide SPRINT, a unified Python toolkit based on Pyserini and Lucene, supporting a common interface for evaluating neural sparse retrieval. The toolkit currently includes five built-in models: uniCOIL, DeepImpact, SPARTA, TILDEv2 and SPLADEv2. Users can also easily add customized models by defining their term weighting method. Using our toolkit, we establish strong and reproducible zero-shot sparse retrieval baselines across the well-acknowledged benchmark, BEIR. Our results demonstrate that SPLADEv2 achieves the best average score of 0.470 nDCG@10 on BEIR amongst all neural sparse retrievers. In this work, we further uncover the reasons behind its performance gain. We show that SPLADEv2 produces sparse representations with a majority of tokens outside of the original query and document which is often crucial for its performance gains, i.e. a limitation among its other sparse counterparts. We provide our SPRINT toolkit, models, and data used in our experiments publicly here at https://github.com/thakur-nandan/sprint. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Identifying Interpretable Subspaces in Image Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10504  
**Abstract:** We propose Automatic Feature Explanation using Contrasting Concepts (FALCON), an interpretability framework to explain features of image representations. For a target feature, FALCON captions its highly activating cropped images using a large captioning dataset (like LAION-400m) and a pre-trained vision-language model like CLIP. Each word among the captions is scored and ranked leading to a small number of shared, human-understandable concepts that closely describe the target feature. FALCON also applies contrastive interpretation using lowly activating (counterfactual) images, to eliminate spurious concepts. Although many existing approaches interpret features independently, we observe in state-of-the-art self-supervised and supervised models, that less than 20% of the representation space can be explained by individual features. We show that features in larger spaces become more interpretable when studied in groups and can be explained with high-order scoring concepts through FALCON. We discuss how extracted concepts can be used to explain and debug failures in downstream tasks. Finally, we present a technique to transfer concepts from one (explainable) representation space to another unseen representation space by learning a simple linear transformation. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** IvyGPT: InteractiVe Chinese pathwaY language model in medical domain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10512  
**Abstract:** General large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have shown remarkable success. However, such LLMs have not been widely adopted for medical purposes, due to poor accuracy and inability to provide medical advice. We propose IvyGPT, an LLM based on LLaMA that is trained and fine-tuned with high-quality medical question-answer (QA) instances and Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF). After supervised fine-tuning, IvyGPT has good multi-turn conversation capabilities, but it cannot perform like a doctor in other aspects, such as comprehensive diagnosis. Through RLHF, IvyGPT can output richer diagnosis and treatment answers that are closer to human. In the training, we used QLoRA to train 33 billion parameters on a small number of NVIDIA A100 (80GB) GPUs. Experimental results show that IvyGPT has outperformed other medical GPT models. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** SC VALL-E: Style-Controllable Zero-Shot Text to Speech Synthesizer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10550  
**Abstract:** Expressive speech synthesis models are trained by adding corpora with diverse speakers, various emotions, and different speaking styles to the dataset, in order to control various characteristics of speech and generate the desired voice. In this paper, we propose a style control (SC) VALL-E model based on the neural codec language model (called VALL-E), which follows the structure of the generative pretrained transformer 3 (GPT-3). The proposed SC VALL-E takes input from text sentences and prompt audio and is designed to generate controllable speech by not simply mimicking the characteristics of the prompt audio but by controlling the attributes to produce diverse voices. We identify tokens in the style embedding matrix of the newly designed style network that represent attributes such as emotion, speaking rate, pitch, and voice intensity, and design a model that can control these attributes. To evaluate the performance of SC VALL-E, we conduct comparative experiments with three representative expressive speech synthesis models: global style token (GST) Tacotron2, variational autoencoder (VAE) Tacotron2, and original VALL-E. We measure word error rate (WER), F0 voiced error (FVE), and F0 gross pitch error (F0GPE) as evaluation metrics to assess the accuracy of generated sentences. For comparing the quality of synthesized speech, we measure comparative mean option score (CMOS) and similarity mean option score (SMOS). To evaluate the style control ability of the generated speech, we observe the changes in F0 and mel-spectrogram by modifying the trained tokens. When using prompt audio that is not present in the training data, SC VALL-E generates a variety of expressive sounds and demonstrates competitive performance compared to the existing models. Our implementation, pretrained models, and audio samples are located on GitHub. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Instruction-following Evaluation through Verbalizer Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10558  
**Abstract:** While instruction-tuned models have shown remarkable success in various natural language processing tasks, accurately evaluating their ability to follow instructions remains challenging. Existing benchmarks primarily focus on common instructions that align well with what the model learned during training. However, proficiency in responding to these instructions does not necessarily imply strong ability in instruction following. In this paper, we propose a novel instruction-following evaluation protocol called verbalizer manipulation. It instructs the model to verbalize the task label with words aligning with model priors to different extents, adopting verbalizers from highly aligned (e.g., outputting ``postive'' for positive sentiment), to minimally aligned (e.g., outputting ``negative'' for positive sentiment). Verbalizer manipulation can be seamlessly integrated with any classification benchmark to examine the model's reliance on priors and its ability to override them to accurately follow the instructions. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of four major model families across nine datasets, employing twelve sets of verbalizers for each of them. We observe that the instruction-following abilities of models, across different families and scales, are significantly distinguished by their performance on less natural verbalizers. Even the strongest GPT-4 model struggles to perform better than random guessing on the most challenging verbalizer, emphasizing the need for continued advancements to improve their instruction-following abilities. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Reference-based Painterly Inpainting via Diffusion: Crossing the Wild  Reference Domain Gap  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10584  
**Abstract:** Have you ever imagined how it would look if we placed new objects into paintings? For example, what would it look like if we placed a basketball into Claude Monet's ``Water Lilies, Evening Effect''? We propose Reference-based Painterly Inpainting, a novel task that crosses the wild reference domain gap and implants novel objects into artworks. Although previous works have examined reference-based inpainting, they are not designed for large domain discrepancies between the target and the reference, such as inpainting an artistic image using a photorealistic reference. This paper proposes a novel diffusion framework, dubbed RefPaint, to ``inpaint more wildly'' by taking such references with large domain gaps. Built with an image-conditioned diffusion model, we introduce a ladder-side branch and a masked fusion mechanism to work with the inpainting mask. By decomposing the CLIP image embeddings at inference time, one can manipulate the strength of semantic and style information with ease. Experiments demonstrate that our proposed RefPaint framework produces significantly better results than existing methods. Our method enables creative painterly image inpainting with reference objects that would otherwise be difficult to achieve. Project page: https://vita-group.github.io/RefPaint/ 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Individualization of atrial tachycardia models for clinical  applications: Performance of fiber-independent model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10592  
**Abstract:** One of the challenges in the development of patient-specific models of cardiac arrhythmias for clinical applications has been accounting for myocardial fiber organization. The fiber varies significantly from heart to heart, but cannot be directly measured in live tissue. The goal of this paper is to evaluate in-silico the accuracy of left atrium activation maps produced by a fiber-independent (isotropic) model with tuned diffusion coefficients, compares to a model incorporating myocardial fibers with the same geometry. For this study we utilize publicly available DT-MRI data from 7 ex-vivo hearts. The comparison is carried out in 51 cases of focal and rotor arrhythmias located in different regions of the atria. On average, the local activation time accuracy is 96% for focal and 93% for rotor arrhythmias. Given its reasonably good performance and the availability of readily accessible data for model tuning in cardiac ablation procedures, the fiber-independent model could be a promising tool for clinical applications. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Hybrid Feature Embedding For Automatic Building Outline Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10609  
**Abstract:** Building outline extracted from high-resolution aerial images can be used in various application fields such as change detection and disaster assessment. However, traditional CNN model cannot recognize contours very precisely from original images. In this paper, we proposed a CNN and Transformer based model together with active contour model to deal with this problem. We also designed a triple-branch decoder structure to handle different features generated by encoder. Experiment results show that our model outperforms other baseline model on two datasets, achieving 91.1% mIoU on Vaihingen and 83.8% on Bing huts. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Quantized Feature Distillation for Network Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10638  
**Abstract:** Neural network quantization aims to accelerate and trim full-precision neural network models by using low bit approximations. Methods adopting the quantization aware training (QAT) paradigm have recently seen a rapid growth, but are often conceptually complicated. This paper proposes a novel and highly effective QAT method, quantized feature distillation (QFD). QFD first trains a quantized (or binarized) representation as the teacher, then quantize the network using knowledge distillation (KD). Quantitative results show that QFD is more flexible and effective (i.e., quantization friendly) than previous quantization methods. QFD surpasses existing methods by a noticeable margin on not only image classification but also object detection, albeit being much simpler. Furthermore, QFD quantizes ViT and Swin-Transformer on MS-COCO detection and segmentation, which verifies its potential in real world deployment. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that vision transformers have been quantized in object detection and image segmentation tasks. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Fisher-Rao distance and pullback SPD cone distances between multivariate  normal distributions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10644  
**Abstract:** Data sets of multivariate normal distributions abound in many scientific areas like diffusion tensor imaging, structure tensor computer vision, radar signal processing, machine learning, just to name a few. In order to process those normal data sets for downstream tasks like filtering, classification or clustering, one needs to define proper notions of dissimilarities between normals and paths joining them. The Fisher-Rao distance defined as the Riemannian geodesic distance induced by the Fisher information metric is such a principled metric distance which however is not known in closed-form excepts for a few particular cases. In this work, we first report a fast and robust method to approximate arbitrarily finely the Fisher-Rao distance between multivariate normal distributions. Second, we introduce a class of distances based on diffeomorphic embeddings of the normal manifold into a submanifold of the higher-dimensional symmetric positive-definite cone corresponding to the manifold of centered normal distributions. We show that the projective Hilbert distance on the cone yields a metric on the embedded normal submanifold and we pullback that cone distance with its associated straight line Hilbert cone geodesics to obtain a distance and smooth paths between normal distributions. Compared to the Fisher-Rao distance approximation, the pullback Hilbert cone distance is computationally light since it requires to compute only the extreme minimal and maximal eigenvalues of matrices. Finally, we show how to use those distances in clustering tasks. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Lighting up NeRF via Unsupervised Decomposition and Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10664  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a promising approach for synthesizing novel views, given a set of images and the corresponding camera poses of a scene. However, images photographed from a low-light scene can hardly be used to train a NeRF model to produce high-quality results, due to their low pixel intensities, heavy noise, and color distortion. Combining existing low-light image enhancement methods with NeRF methods also does not work well due to the view inconsistency caused by the individual 2D enhancement process. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, called Low-Light NeRF (or LLNeRF), to enhance the scene representation and synthesize normal-light novel views directly from sRGB low-light images in an unsupervised manner. The core of our approach is a decomposition of radiance field learning, which allows us to enhance the illumination, reduce noise and correct the distorted colors jointly with the NeRF optimization process. Our method is able to produce novel view images with proper lighting and vivid colors and details, given a collection of camera-finished low dynamic range (8-bits/channel) images from a low-light scene. Experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms existing low-light enhancement methods and NeRF methods. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** A Dataset and Strong Baselines for Classification of Czech News Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10666  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained models for Czech Natural Language Processing are often evaluated on purely linguistic tasks (POS tagging, parsing, NER) and relatively simple classification tasks such as sentiment classification or article classification from a single news source. As an alternative, we present CZEch~NEws~Classification~dataset (CZE-NEC), one of the largest Czech classification datasets, composed of news articles from various sources spanning over twenty years, which allows a more rigorous evaluation of such models. We define four classification tasks: news source, news category, inferred author's gender, and day of the week. To verify the task difficulty, we conducted a human evaluation, which revealed that human performance lags behind strong machine-learning baselines built upon pre-trained transformer models. Furthermore, we show that language-specific pre-trained encoder analysis outperforms selected commercially available large-scale generative language models. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** A second order directional split exponential integrator for systems of  advection--diffusion--reaction equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10684  
**Abstract:** We propose a second order exponential scheme suitable for two-component coupled systems of stiff advection--diffusion--reaction equations in two and three space dimensions. It is based on a directional splitting of the involved matrix functions, which allows for a simple yet efficient implementation through the computation of small-sized exponential-like functions and tensor-matrix products. The procedure straightforwardly extends to the case of an arbitrary number of components and to any space dimension $d$. Several numerical experiments in 2D and 3D with physically relevant DIB, Schnakenberg, FitzHugh--Nagumo, and advective Brusselator models clearly show the advantage of the approach against state-of-the-art techniques. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Reverse Knowledge Distillation: Training a Large Model using a Small One  for Retinal Image Matching on Limited Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10698  
**Abstract:** Retinal image matching plays a crucial role in monitoring disease progression and treatment response. However, datasets with matched keypoints between temporally separated pairs of images are not available in abundance to train transformer-based model. We propose a novel approach based on reverse knowledge distillation to train large models with limited data while preventing overfitting. Firstly, we propose architectural modifications to a CNN-based semi-supervised method called SuperRetina that help us improve its results on a publicly available dataset. Then, we train a computationally heavier model based on a vision transformer encoder using the lighter CNN-based model, which is counter-intuitive in the field knowledge-distillation research where training lighter models based on heavier ones is the norm. Surprisingly, such reverse knowledge distillation improves generalization even further. Our experiments suggest that high-dimensional fitting in representation space may prevent overfitting unlike training directly to match the final output. We also provide a public dataset with annotations for retinal image keypoint detection and matching to help the research community develop algorithms for retinal image applications. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** AdjointDPM: Adjoint Sensitivity Method for Gradient Backpropagation of  Diffusion Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10711  
**Abstract:** Existing customization methods require access to multiple reference examples to align pre-trained diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) with user-provided concepts. This paper aims to address the challenge of DPM customization when the only available supervision is a differentiable metric defined on the generated contents. Since the sampling procedure of DPMs involves recursive calls to the denoising UNet, na\"ive gradient backpropagation requires storing the intermediate states of all iterations, resulting in extremely high memory consumption. To overcome this issue, we propose a novel method AdjointDPM, which first generates new samples from diffusion models by solving the corresponding probability-flow ODEs. It then uses the adjoint sensitivity method to backpropagate the gradients of the loss to the models' parameters (including conditioning signals, network weights, and initial noises) by solving another augmented ODE. To reduce numerical errors in both the forward generation and gradient backpropagation processes, we further reparameterize the probability-flow ODE and augmented ODE as simple non-stiff ODEs using exponential integration. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of AdjointDPM on three interesting tasks: converting visual effects into identification text embeddings, finetuning DPMs for specific types of stylization, and optimizing initial noise to generate adversarial samples for security auditing. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** MSQNet: Actor-agnostic Action Recognition with Multi-modal Query  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10763  
**Abstract:** Existing action recognition methods are typically actor-specific due to the intrinsic topological and apparent differences among the actors. This requires actor-specific pose estimation (e.g., humans vs. animals), leading to cumbersome model design complexity and high maintenance costs. Moreover, they often focus on learning the visual modality alone and single-label classification whilst neglecting other available information sources (e.g., class name text) and the concurrent occurrence of multiple actions. To overcome these limitations, we propose a new approach called 'actor-agnostic multi-modal multi-label action recognition,' which offers a unified solution for various types of actors, including humans and animals. We further formulate a novel Multi-modal Semantic Query Network (MSQNet) model in a transformer-based object detection framework (e.g., DETR), characterized by leveraging visual and textual modalities to represent the action classes better. The elimination of actor-specific model designs is a key advantage, as it removes the need for actor pose estimation altogether. Extensive experiments on five publicly available benchmarks show that our MSQNet consistently outperforms the prior arts of actor-specific alternatives on human and animal single- and multi-label action recognition tasks by up to 50%. Code will be released at https://github.com/mondalanindya/MSQNet. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Learned Thresholds Token Merging and Pruning for Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10780  
**Abstract:** Vision transformers have demonstrated remarkable success in a wide range of computer vision tasks over the last years. However, their high computational costs remain a significant barrier to their practical deployment. In particular, the complexity of transformer models is quadratic with respect to the number of input tokens. Therefore techniques that reduce the number of input tokens that need to be processed have been proposed. This paper introduces Learned Thresholds token Merging and Pruning (LTMP), a novel approach that leverages the strengths of both token merging and token pruning. LTMP uses learned threshold masking modules that dynamically determine which tokens to merge and which to prune. We demonstrate our approach with extensive experiments on vision transformers on the ImageNet classification task. Our results demonstrate that LTMP achieves state-of-the-art accuracy across reduction rates while requiring only a single fine-tuning epoch, which is an order of magnitude faster than previous methods. Code is available at https://github.com/Mxbonn/ltmp . 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Addressing Compiler Errors: Stack Overflow or Large Language Models?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10793  
**Abstract:** Compiler error messages serve as an initial resource for programmers dealing with compilation errors. However, previous studies indicate that they often lack sufficient targeted information to resolve code issues. Consequently, programmers typically rely on their own research to fix errors. Historically, Stack Overflow has been the primary resource for such information, but recent advances in large language models offer alternatives. This study systematically examines 100 compiler error messages from three sources to determine the most effective approach for programmers encountering compiler errors. Factors considered include Stack Overflow search methods and the impact of model version and prompt phrasing when using large language models. The results reveal that GPT-4 outperforms Stack Overflow in explaining compiler error messages, the effectiveness of adding code snippets to Stack Overflow searches depends on the search method, and results for Stack Overflow differ significantly between Google and StackExchange API searches. Furthermore, GPT-4 surpasses GPT-3.5, with "How to fix" prompts yielding superior outcomes to "What does this error mean" prompts. These results offer valuable guidance for programmers seeking assistance with compiler error messages, underscoring the transformative potential of advanced large language models like GPT-4 in debugging and opening new avenues of exploration for researchers in AI-assisted programming. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** HyperReenact: One-Shot Reenactment via Jointly Learning to Refine and  Retarget Faces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10797  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present our method for neural face reenactment, called HyperReenact, that aims to generate realistic talking head images of a source identity, driven by a target facial pose. Existing state-of-the-art face reenactment methods train controllable generative models that learn to synthesize realistic facial images, yet producing reenacted faces that are prone to significant visual artifacts, especially under the challenging condition of extreme head pose changes, or requiring expensive few-shot fine-tuning to better preserve the source identity characteristics. We propose to address these limitations by leveraging the photorealistic generation ability and the disentangled properties of a pretrained StyleGAN2 generator, by first inverting the real images into its latent space and then using a hypernetwork to perform: (i) refinement of the source identity characteristics and (ii) facial pose re-targeting, eliminating this way the dependence on external editing methods that typically produce artifacts. Our method operates under the one-shot setting (i.e., using a single source frame) and allows for cross-subject reenactment, without requiring any subject-specific fine-tuning. We compare our method both quantitatively and qualitatively against several state-of-the-art techniques on the standard benchmarks of VoxCeleb1 and VoxCeleb2, demonstrating the superiority of our approach in producing artifact-free images, exhibiting remarkable robustness even under extreme head pose changes. We make the code and the pretrained models publicly available at: https://github.com/StelaBou/HyperReenact . 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Layer-wise Representation Fusion for Compositional Generalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10799  
**Abstract:** Despite successes across a broad range of applications, sequence-to-sequence models' construct of solutions are argued to be less compositional than human-like generalization. There is mounting evidence that one of the reasons hindering compositional generalization is representations of the encoder and decoder uppermost layer are entangled. In other words, the syntactic and semantic representations of sequences are twisted inappropriately. However, most previous studies mainly concentrate on enhancing token-level semantic information to alleviate the representations entanglement problem, rather than composing and using the syntactic and semantic representations of sequences appropriately as humans do. In addition, we explain why the entanglement problem exists from the perspective of recent studies about training deeper Transformer, mainly owing to the ``shallow'' residual connections and its simple, one-step operations, which fails to fuse previous layers' information effectively. Starting from this finding and inspired by humans' strategies, we propose \textsc{FuSion} (\textbf{Fu}sing \textbf{S}yntactic and Semant\textbf{i}c Representati\textbf{on}s), an extension to sequence-to-sequence models to learn to fuse previous layers' information back into the encoding and decoding process appropriately through introducing a \emph{fuse-attention module} at each encoder and decoder layer. \textsc{FuSion} achieves competitive and even \textbf{state-of-the-art} results on two realistic benchmarks, which empirically demonstrates the effectiveness of our proposal. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Meta-Transformer: A Unified Framework for Multimodal Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10802  
**Abstract:** Multimodal learning aims to build models that can process and relate information from multiple modalities. Despite years of development in this field, it still remains challenging to design a unified network for processing various modalities ($\textit{e.g.}$ natural language, 2D images, 3D point clouds, audio, video, time series, tabular data) due to the inherent gaps among them. In this work, we propose a framework, named Meta-Transformer, that leverages a $\textbf{frozen}$ encoder to perform multimodal perception without any paired multimodal training data. In Meta-Transformer, the raw input data from various modalities are mapped into a shared token space, allowing a subsequent encoder with frozen parameters to extract high-level semantic features of the input data. Composed of three main components: a unified data tokenizer, a modality-shared encoder, and task-specific heads for downstream tasks, Meta-Transformer is the first framework to perform unified learning across 12 modalities with unpaired data. Experiments on different benchmarks reveal that Meta-Transformer can handle a wide range of tasks including fundamental perception (text, image, point cloud, audio, video), practical application (X-Ray, infrared, hyperspectral, and IMU), and data mining (graph, tabular, and time-series). Meta-Transformer indicates a promising future for developing unified multimodal intelligence with transformers. Code will be available at https://github.com/invictus717/MetaTransformer 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** BoxDiff: Text-to-Image Synthesis with Training-Free Box-Constrained  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10816  
**Abstract:** Recent text-to-image diffusion models have demonstrated an astonishing capacity to generate high-quality images. However, researchers mainly studied the way of synthesizing images with only text prompts. While some works have explored using other modalities as conditions, considerable paired data, e.g., box/mask-image pairs, and fine-tuning time are required for nurturing models. As such paired data is time-consuming and labor-intensive to acquire and restricted to a closed set, this potentially becomes the bottleneck for applications in an open world. This paper focuses on the simplest form of user-provided conditions, e.g., box or scribble. To mitigate the aforementioned problem, we propose a training-free method to control objects and contexts in the synthesized images adhering to the given spatial conditions. Specifically, three spatial constraints, i.e., Inner-Box, Outer-Box, and Corner Constraints, are designed and seamlessly integrated into the denoising step of diffusion models, requiring no additional training and massive annotated layout data. Extensive results show that the proposed constraints can control what and where to present in the images while retaining the ability of the Stable Diffusion model to synthesize with high fidelity and diverse concept coverage. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/Sierkinhane/BoxDiff. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Exact Diffusion Inversion via Bi-directional Integration Approximation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10829  
**Abstract:** Recently, different methods have been proposed to address the inconsistency issue of DDIM inversion to enable image editing, such as EDICT [36] and Null-text inversion [22]. However, the above methods introduce considerable computational overhead. In this paper, we propose a new technique, named bi-directional integration approximation (BDIA), to perform exact diffusion inversion with neglible computational overhead. Suppose we would like to estimate the next diffusion state $\boldsymbol{z}_{i-1}$ at timestep $t_i$ with the historical information $(i,\boldsymbol{z}_i)$ and $(i+1,\boldsymbol{z}_{i+1})$. We first obtain the estimated Gaussian noise $\hat{\boldsymbol{\epsilon}}(\boldsymbol{z}_i,i)$, and then apply the DDIM update procedure twice for approximating the ODE integration over the next time-slot $[t_i, t_{i-1}]$ in the forward manner and the previous time-slot $[t_i, t_{t+1}]$ in the backward manner. The DDIM step for the previous time-slot is used to refine the integration approximation made earlier when computing $\boldsymbol{z}_i$. One nice property with BDIA-DDIM is that the update expression for $\boldsymbol{z}_{i-1}$ is a linear combination of $(\boldsymbol{z}_{i+1}, \boldsymbol{z}_i, \hat{\boldsymbol{\epsilon}}(\boldsymbol{z}_i,i))$. This allows for exact backward computation of $\boldsymbol{z}_{i+1}$ given $(\boldsymbol{z}_i, \boldsymbol{z}_{i-1})$, thus leading to exact diffusion inversion. Experiments on both image reconstruction and image editing were conducted, confirming our statement. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Exploring Effective Priors and Efficient Models for Weakly-Supervised  Change Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10853  
**Abstract:** Weakly-supervised change detection (WSCD) aims to detect pixel-level changes with only image-level annotations. Owing to its label efficiency, WSCD is drawing increasing attention recently. However, current WSCD methods often encounter the challenge of change missing and fabricating, i.e., the inconsistency between image-level annotations and pixel-level predictions. Specifically, change missing refer to the situation that the WSCD model fails to predict any changed pixels, even though the image-level label indicates changed, and vice versa for change fabricating. To address this challenge, in this work, we leverage global-scale and local-scale priors in WSCD and propose two components: a Dilated Prior (DP) decoder and a Label Gated (LG) constraint. The DP decoder decodes samples with the changed image-level label, skips samples with the unchanged label, and replaces them with an all-unchanged pixel-level label. The LG constraint is derived from the correspondence between changed representations and image-level labels, penalizing the model when it mispredicts the change status. Additionally, we develop TransWCD, a simple yet powerful transformer-based model, showcasing the potential of weakly-supervised learning in change detection. By integrating the DP decoder and LG constraint into TransWCD, we form TransWCD-DL. Our proposed TransWCD and TransWCD-DL achieve significant +6.33% and +9.55% F1 score improvements over the state-of-the-art methods on the WHU-CD dataset, respectively. Some performance metrics even exceed several fully-supervised change detection (FSCD) competitors. Code will be available at https://github.com/zhenghuizhao/TransWCD. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Divide & Bind Your Attention for Improved Generative Semantic Nursing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10864  
**Abstract:** Emerging large-scale text-to-image generative models, e.g., Stable Diffusion (SD), have exhibited overwhelming results with high fidelity. Despite the magnificent progress, current state-of-the-art models still struggle to generate images fully adhering to the input prompt. Prior work, Attend & Excite, has introduced the concept of Generative Semantic Nursing (GSN), aiming to optimize cross-attention during inference time to better incorporate the semantics. It demonstrates promising results in generating simple prompts, e.g., ``a cat and a dog''. However, its efficacy declines when dealing with more complex prompts, and it does not explicitly address the problem of improper attribute binding. To address the challenges posed by complex prompts or scenarios involving multiple entities and to achieve improved attribute binding, we propose Divide & Bind. We introduce two novel loss objectives for GSN: a novel attendance loss and a binding loss. Our approach stands out in its ability to faithfully synthesize desired objects with improved attribute alignment from complex prompts and exhibits superior performance across multiple evaluation benchmarks. More videos and updates can be found on the project page \url{https://sites.google.com/view/divide-and-bind}. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Structure-preserving schemes for drift-diffusion systems on general  meshes: DDFV vs HFV  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10911  
**Abstract:** We made a comparison between a Discrete Duality Finite Volume (DDFV) scheme and a Hybrid Finite Volume (HFV) scheme for a drift-diffusion model with mixed boundary conditions on general meshes. Both schemes are based on a nonlinear discretisation of the convection-diffusion fluxes, which ensures the positivity of the discrete densities. We investigate the behaviours of the schemes on various numerical test cases. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Language-based Action Concept Spaces Improve Video Self-Supervised  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10922  
**Abstract:** Recent contrastive language image pre-training has led to learning highly transferable and robust image representations. However, adapting these models to video domains with minimal supervision remains an open problem. We explore a simple step in that direction, using language tied self-supervised learning to adapt an image CLIP model to the video domain. A backbone modified for temporal modeling is trained under self-distillation settings with train objectives operating in an action concept space. Feature vectors of various action concepts extracted from a language encoder using relevant textual prompts construct this space. We introduce two train objectives, concept distillation and concept alignment, that retain generality of original representations while enforcing relations between actions and their attributes. Our approach improves zero-shot and linear probing performance on three action recognition benchmarks. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** MediaGPT : A Large Language Model Target Chinese Media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10930  
**Abstract:** The development of large language models (LLMs) has seen rapid progress in recent years. One of the most widely used LLMs is the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) series, which has been applied in various fields, including the media domain. However, in practical applications, the differences between the media's use cases and the general-purpose applications of LLMs have become increasingly apparent, especially Chinese. As a result, there is a growing need to develop LLM that are specifically tailored to the unique requirements of the media domain. In this paper, we present MediaGPT, a large language model training on variety of media data and addressing the practical needs of Chinese media. We have designed a diverse set of task instruction types to cater to the specific requirements of the domain. To further validate the effectiveness of our proposed LLM, we have constructed unique datasets that are tailored to the media domain and have also developed verification methods that are specifically designed for generative-type tasks. By doing so, we aim to bridge the gap between the general-purpose LLM and the requirements of the media domain, and to pave the way for more effective and efficient use of LLM in this field. This paper aims to explore the challenges and opportunities of developing LLM for media applications and to propose potential solutions for addressing these challenges. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** OCTraN: 3D Occupancy Convolutional Transformer Network in Unstructured  Traffic Scenarios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10934  
**Abstract:** Modern approaches for vision-centric environment perception for autonomous navigation make extensive use of self-supervised monocular depth estimation algorithms that output disparity maps. However, when this disparity map is projected onto 3D space, the errors in disparity are magnified, resulting in a depth estimation error that increases quadratically as the distance from the camera increases. Though Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) can solve this issue, it is expensive and not feasible for many applications. To address the challenge of accurate ranging with low-cost sensors, we propose, OCTraN, a transformer architecture that uses iterative-attention to convert 2D image features into 3D occupancy features and makes use of convolution and transpose convolution to efficiently operate on spatial information. We also develop a self-supervised training pipeline to generalize the model to any scene by eliminating the need for LiDAR ground truth by substituting it with pseudo-ground truth labels obtained from boosted monocular depth estimation. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** PASTA: Pretrained Action-State Transformer Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10936  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised learning has brought about a revolutionary paradigm shift in various computing domains, including NLP, vision, and biology. Recent approaches involve pre-training transformer models on vast amounts of unlabeled data, serving as a starting point for efficiently solving downstream tasks. In the realm of reinforcement learning, researchers have recently adapted these approaches by developing models pre-trained on expert trajectories, enabling them to address a wide range of tasks, from robotics to recommendation systems. However, existing methods mostly rely on intricate pre-training objectives tailored to specific downstream applications. This paper presents a comprehensive investigation of models we refer to as Pretrained Action-State Transformer Agents (PASTA). Our study uses a unified methodology and covers an extensive set of general downstream tasks including behavioral cloning, offline RL, sensor failure robustness, and dynamics change adaptation. Our goal is to systematically compare various design choices and provide valuable insights to practitioners for building robust models. Key highlights of our study include tokenization at the action and state component level, using fundamental pre-training objectives like next token prediction, training models across diverse domains simultaneously, and using parameter efficient fine-tuning (PEFT). The developed models in our study contain fewer than 10 million parameters and the application of PEFT enables fine-tuning of fewer than 10,000 parameters during downstream adaptation, allowing a broad community to use these models and reproduce our experiments. We hope that this study will encourage further research into the use of transformers with first-principles design choices to represent RL trajectories and contribute to robust policy learning. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Progressive distillation diffusion for raw music generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10994  
**Abstract:** This paper aims to apply a new deep learning approach to the task of generating raw audio files. It is based on diffusion models, a recent type of deep generative model. This new type of method has recently shown outstanding results with image generation. A lot of focus has been given to those models by the computer vision community. On the other hand, really few have been given for other types of applications such as music generation in waveform domain. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** BehaveFormer: A Framework with Spatio-Temporal Dual Attention  Transformers for IMU enhanced Keystroke Dynamics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11000  
**Abstract:** Continuous Authentication (CA) using behavioural biometrics is a type of biometric identification that recognizes individuals based on their unique behavioural characteristics, like their typing style. However, the existing systems that use keystroke or touch stroke data have limited accuracy and reliability. To improve this, smartphones' Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) sensors, which include accelerometers, gyroscopes, and magnetometers, can be used to gather data on users' behavioural patterns, such as how they hold their phones. Combining this IMU data with keystroke data can enhance the accuracy of behavioural biometrics-based CA. This paper proposes BehaveFormer, a new framework that employs keystroke and IMU data to create a reliable and accurate behavioural biometric CA system. It includes two Spatio-Temporal Dual Attention Transformer (STDAT), a novel transformer we introduce to extract more discriminative features from keystroke dynamics. Experimental results on three publicly available datasets (Aalto DB, HMOG DB, and HuMIdb) demonstrate that BehaveFormer outperforms the state-of-the-art behavioural biometric-based CA systems. For instance, on the HuMIdb dataset, BehaveFormer achieved an EER of 2.95\%. Additionally, the proposed STDAT has been shown to improve the BehaveFormer system even when only keystroke data is used. For example, on the Aalto DB dataset, BehaveFormer achieved an EER of 1.80\%. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed STDAT and the incorporation of IMU data for behavioural biometric authentication. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Investigating the Factual Knowledge Boundary of Large Language Models  with Retrieval Augmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11019  
**Abstract:** Knowledge-intensive tasks (e.g., open-domain question answering (QA)) require a substantial amount of factual knowledge and often rely on external information for assistance. Recently, large language models (LLMs) (e.g., ChatGPT), have demonstrated impressive prowess in solving a wide range of tasks with world knowledge, including knowledge-intensive tasks. However, it remains unclear how well LLMs are able to perceive their factual knowledge boundaries, particularly how they behave when incorporating retrieval augmentation. In this study, we present an initial analysis of the factual knowledge boundaries of LLMs and how retrieval augmentation affects LLMs on open-domain QA. Specially, we focus on three primary research questions and analyze them by examining QA performance, priori judgement and posteriori judgement of LLMs. We show evidence that LLMs possess unwavering confidence in their capabilities to respond to questions and the accuracy of their responses. Furthermore, retrieval augmentation proves to be an effective approach in enhancing LLMs' awareness of knowledge boundaries, thereby improving their judgemental abilities. Additionally, we also find that LLMs have a propensity to rely on the provided retrieval results when formulating answers, while the quality of these results significantly impacts their reliance. The code to reproduce this work is available at https://github.com/RUCAIBox/LLM-Knowledge-Boundary. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Embroid: Unsupervised Prediction Smoothing Can Improve Few-Shot  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11031  
**Abstract:** Recent work has shown that language models' (LMs) prompt-based learning capabilities make them well suited for automating data labeling in domains where manual annotation is expensive. The challenge is that while writing an initial prompt is cheap, improving a prompt is costly -- practitioners often require significant labeled data in order to evaluate the impact of prompt modifications. Our work asks whether it is possible to improve prompt-based learning without additional labeled data. We approach this problem by attempting to modify the predictions of a prompt, rather than the prompt itself. Our intuition is that accurate predictions should also be consistent: samples which are similar under some feature representation should receive the same prompt prediction. We propose Embroid, a method which computes multiple representations of a dataset under different embedding functions, and uses the consistency between the LM predictions for neighboring samples to identify mispredictions. Embroid then uses these neighborhoods to create additional predictions for each sample, and combines these predictions with a simple latent variable graphical model in order to generate a final corrected prediction. In addition to providing a theoretical analysis of Embroid, we conduct a rigorous empirical evaluation across six different LMs and up to 95 different tasks. We find that (1) Embroid substantially improves performance over original prompts (e.g., by an average of 7.3 points on GPT-JT), (2) also realizes improvements for more sophisticated prompting strategies (e.g., chain-of-thought), and (3) can be specialized to domains like law through the embedding functions. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Cascade-DETR: Delving into High-Quality Universal Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11035  
**Abstract:** Object localization in general environments is a fundamental part of vision systems. While dominating on the COCO benchmark, recent Transformer-based detection methods are not competitive in diverse domains. Moreover, these methods still struggle to very accurately estimate the object bounding boxes in complex environments. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Hypergraph Diffusions and Resolvents for Norm-Based Hypergraph  Laplacians  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11042  
**Abstract:** The development of simple and fast hypergraph spectral methods has been hindered by the lack of numerical algorithms for simulating heat diffusions and computing fundamental objects, such as Personalized PageRank vectors, over hypergraphs. In this paper, we overcome this challenge by designing two novel algorithmic primitives. The first is a simple, easy-to-compute discrete-time heat diffusion that enjoys the same favorable properties as the discrete-time heat diffusion over graphs. This diffusion can be directly applied to speed up existing hypergraph partitioning algorithms. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** 3D-IDS: Doubly Disentangled Dynamic Intrusion Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11079  
**Abstract:** Network-based intrusion detection system (NIDS) monitors network traffic for malicious activities, forming the frontline defense against increasing attacks over information infrastructures. Although promising, our quantitative analysis shows that existing methods perform inconsistently in declaring various unknown attacks (e.g., 9% and 35% F1 respectively for two distinct unknown threats for an SVM-based method) or detecting diverse known attacks (e.g., 31% F1 for the Backdoor and 93% F1 for DDoS by a GCN-based state-of-the-art method), and reveals that the underlying cause is entangled distributions of flow features. This motivates us to propose 3D-IDS, a novel method that aims to tackle the above issues through two-step feature disentanglements and a dynamic graph diffusion scheme. Specifically, we first disentangle traffic features by a non-parameterized optimization based on mutual information, automatically differentiating tens and hundreds of complex features of various attacks. Such differentiated features will be fed into a memory model to generate representations, which are further disentangled to highlight the attack-specific features. Finally, we use a novel graph diffusion method that dynamically fuses the network topology for spatial-temporal aggregation in evolving data streams. By doing so, we can effectively identify various attacks in encrypted traffics, including unknown threats and known ones that are not easily detected. Experiments show the superiority of our 3D-IDS. We also demonstrate that our two-step feature disentanglements benefit the explainability of NIDS. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** GLSFormer : Gated - Long, Short Sequence Transformer for Step  Recognition in Surgical Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11081  
**Abstract:** Automated surgical step recognition is an important task that can significantly improve patient safety and decision-making during surgeries. Existing state-of-the-art methods for surgical step recognition either rely on separate, multi-stage modeling of spatial and temporal information or operate on short-range temporal resolution when learned jointly. However, the benefits of joint modeling of spatio-temporal features and long-range information are not taken in account. In this paper, we propose a vision transformer-based approach to jointly learn spatio-temporal features directly from sequence of frame-level patches. Our method incorporates a gated-temporal attention mechanism that intelligently combines short-term and long-term spatio-temporal feature representations. We extensively evaluate our approach on two cataract surgery video datasets, namely Cataract-101 and D99, and demonstrate superior performance compared to various state-of-the-art methods. These results validate the suitability of our proposed approach for automated surgical step recognition. Our code is released at: https://github.com/nisargshah1999/GLSFormer 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** L-Eval: Instituting Standardized Evaluation for Long Context Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11088  
**Abstract:** Recently, there has been growing interest in extending the context length of instruction-following models in order to effectively process single-turn long input (e.g. summarizing a paper) and conversations with more extensive histories. While proprietary models such as GPT-4 and Claude have demonstrated considerable advancements in handling tens of thousands of tokens of context, open-sourced models are still in the early stages of experimentation. It also remains unclear whether developing these long context models can offer substantial gains on practical downstream tasks over retrieval-based methods or models simply trained on chunked contexts. To address this challenge, we propose to institute standardized evaluation for long context language models. Concretely, we develop L-Eval which contains 411 long documents and over 2,000 query-response pairs manually annotated and checked by the authors encompassing areas such as law, finance, school lectures, lengthy conversations, news, long-form novels, and meetings. L-Eval also adopts diverse evaluation methods and instruction styles, enabling a more reliable assessment of Long Context Language Models (LCLMs). Our findings indicate that while open-source models typically lag behind their commercial counterparts, they still exhibit impressive performance. LLaMA2 achieves the best results (win 45\% vs turbo-16k) on open-ended tasks with only 4k context length and ChatGLM2 achieves the best results on closed-ended tasks with 8k input tokens. We release our new evaluation suite, code, and all generation results including predictions from all open-sourced LCLMs, GPT4-32k, Cluade-100k at {\url{https://github.com/OpenLMLab/LEval}}. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Synthetic Lagrangian Turbulence by Generative Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.08529  
**Abstract:** Lagrangian turbulence lies at the core of numerous applied and fundamental problems related to the physics of dispersion and mixing in engineering, bio-fluids, atmosphere, oceans, and astrophysics. Despite exceptional theoretical, numerical, and experimental efforts conducted over the past thirty years, no existing models are capable of faithfully reproducing statistical and topological properties exhibited by particle trajectories in turbulence. We propose a machine learning approach, based on a state-of-the-art Diffusion Model, to generate single-particle trajectories in three-dimensional turbulence at high Reynolds numbers, thereby bypassing the need for direct numerical simulations or experiments to obtain reliable Lagrangian data. Our model demonstrates the ability to quantitatively reproduce all relevant statistical benchmarks over the entire range of time scales, including the presence of fat tails distribution for the velocity increments, anomalous power law, and enhancement of intermittency around the dissipative scale. The model exhibits good generalizability for extreme events, achieving unprecedented intensity and rarity. This paves the way for producing synthetic high-quality datasets for pre-training various downstream applications of Lagrangian turbulence. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Community-Aware Transformer for Autism Prediction in fMRI Connectome  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10181  
**Abstract:** Autism spectrum disorder(ASD) is a lifelong neurodevelopmental condition that affects social communication and behavior. Investigating functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-based brain functional connectome can aid in the understanding and diagnosis of ASD, leading to more effective treatments. The brain is modeled as a network of brain Regions of Interest (ROIs), and ROIs form communities and knowledge of these communities is crucial for ASD diagnosis. On the one hand, Transformer-based models have proven to be highly effective across several tasks, including fMRI connectome analysis to learn useful representations of ROIs. On the other hand, existing transformer-based models treat all ROIs equally and overlook the impact of community-specific associations when learning node embeddings. To fill this gap, we propose a novel method, Com-BrainTF, a hierarchical local-global transformer architecture that learns intra and inter-community aware node embeddings for ASD prediction task. Furthermore, we avoid over-parameterization by sharing the local transformer parameters for different communities but optimize unique learnable prompt tokens for each community. Our model outperforms state-of-the-art (SOTA) architecture on ABIDE dataset and has high interpretability, evident from the attention module. Our code is available at https://github.com/ubc-tea/Com-BrainTF. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** StyleGAN2-based Out-of-Distribution Detection for Medical Imaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10193  
**Abstract:** One barrier to the clinical deployment of deep learning-based models is the presence of images at runtime that lie far outside the training distribution of a given model. We aim to detect these out-of-distribution (OOD) images with a generative adversarial network (GAN). Our training dataset was comprised of 3,234 liver-containing computed tomography (CT) scans from 456 patients. Our OOD test data consisted of CT images of the brain, head and neck, lung, cervix, and abnormal livers. A StyleGAN2-ADA architecture was employed to model the training distribution. Images were reconstructed using backpropagation. Reconstructions were evaluated using the Wasserstein distance, mean squared error, and the structural similarity index measure. OOD detection was evaluated with the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC). Our paradigm distinguished between liver and non-liver CT with greater than 90% AUROC. It was also completely unable to reconstruct liver artifacts, such as needles and ascites. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Modeling pattern formation in communities by using information particles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10270  
**Abstract:** Understanding the pattern formation in communities has been at the center of attention in various fields. Here we introduce a novel model, called an "information-particle model," which is based on the reaction-diffusion model and the distributed behavior model. The information particle drives competition or coordination among species. Therefore, a traverse of information particles in a social system makes it possible to express four different classes of patterns (i.e. "stationary", "competitive-equilibrium", "chaotic", and "periodic"). Remarkably, "competitive equilibrium" well expresses the complex dynamics that is equilibrium macroscopically and non-equilibrium microscopically. Although it is a fundamental phenomenon in pattern formation in nature, it has not been obtained by conventional models. Furthermore, the pattern transitions across the classes depending only on parameters of system, namely, the number of species (vertices in network) and distance (edges) between species. It means that one information-particle model successfully develops the patterns with an in-situ computation under various environments. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Generative Language Models on Nucleotide Sequences of Human Genes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10634  
**Abstract:** Language models, primarily transformer-based ones, obtained colossal success in NLP. To be more precise, studies like BERT in NLU and works such as GPT-3 for NLG are very crucial. DNA sequences are very close to natural language in terms of structure, so if the DNA-related bioinformatics domain is concerned, discriminative models, like DNABert, exist. Yet, the generative side of the coin is mainly unexplored to the best of our knowledge. Consequently, we focused on developing an autoregressive generative language model like GPT-3 for DNA sequences. Because working with whole DNA sequences is challenging without substantial computational resources, we decided to carry out our study on a smaller scale, focusing on nucleotide sequences of human genes, unique parts in DNA with specific functionalities, instead of the whole DNA. This decision did not change the problem structure a lot due to the fact that both DNA and genes can be seen as 1D sequences consisting of four different nucleotides without losing much information and making too much simplification. First of all, we systematically examined an almost entirely unexplored problem and observed that RNNs performed the best while simple techniques like N-grams were also promising. Another beneficial point was learning how to work with generative models on languages we do not understand, unlike natural language. How essential using real-life tasks beyond the classical metrics such as perplexity is observed. Furthermore, checking whether the data-hungry nature of these models can be changed through selecting a language with minimal vocabulary size, four owing to four different types of nucleotides, is examined. The reason for reviewing this was that choosing such a language might make the problem easier. However, what we observed in this study was it did not provide that much of a change in the amount of data needed. 

