**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Comparison between transformers and convolutional models for  fine-grained classification of insects  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11112  
**Abstract:** Fine-grained classification is challenging due to the difficulty of finding discriminatory features. This problem is exacerbated when applied to identifying species within the same taxonomical class. This is because species are often sharing morphological characteristics that make them difficult to differentiate. We consider the taxonomical class of Insecta. The identification of insects is essential in biodiversity monitoring as they are one of the inhabitants at the base of many ecosystems. Citizen science is doing brilliant work of collecting images of insects in the wild giving the possibility to experts to create improved distribution maps in all countries. We have billions of images that need to be automatically classified and deep neural network algorithms are one of the main techniques explored for fine-grained tasks. At the SOTA, the field of deep learning algorithms is extremely fruitful, so how to identify the algorithm to use? We focus on Odonata and Coleoptera orders, and we propose an initial comparative study to analyse the two best-known layer structures for computer vision: transformer and convolutional layers. We compare the performance of T2TViT, a fully transformer-base, EfficientNet, a fully convolutional-base, and ViTAE, a hybrid. We analyse the performance of the three models in identical conditions evaluating the performance per species, per morph together with sex, the inference time, and the overall performance with unbalanced datasets of images from smartphones. Although we observe high performances with all three families of models, our analysis shows that the hybrid model outperforms the fully convolutional-base and fully transformer-base models on accuracy performance and the fully transformer-base model outperforms the others on inference speed and, these prove the transformer to be robust to the shortage of samples and to be faster at inference time. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Diffusion Sampling with Momentum for Mitigating Divergence Artifacts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11118  
**Abstract:** Despite the remarkable success of diffusion models in image generation, slow sampling remains a persistent issue. To accelerate the sampling process, prior studies have reformulated diffusion sampling as an ODE/SDE and introduced higher-order numerical methods. However, these methods often produce divergence artifacts, especially with a low number of sampling steps, which limits the achievable acceleration. In this paper, we investigate the potential causes of these artifacts and suggest that the small stability regions of these methods could be the principal cause. To address this issue, we propose two novel techniques. The first technique involves the incorporation of Heavy Ball (HB) momentum, a well-known technique for improving optimization, into existing diffusion numerical methods to expand their stability regions. We also prove that the resulting methods have first-order convergence. The second technique, called Generalized Heavy Ball (GHVB), constructs a new high-order method that offers a variable trade-off between accuracy and artifact suppression. Experimental results show that our techniques are highly effective in reducing artifacts and improving image quality, surpassing state-of-the-art diffusion solvers on both pixel-based and latent-based diffusion models for low-step sampling. Our research provides novel insights into the design of numerical methods for future diffusion work. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Of Models and Tin Men -- a behavioural economics study of  principal-agent problems in AI alignment using large-language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11137  
**Abstract:** AI Alignment is often presented as an interaction between a single designer and an artificial agent in which the designer attempts to ensure the agent's behavior is consistent with its purpose, and risks arise solely because of conflicts caused by inadvertent misalignment between the utility function intended by the designer and the resulting internal utility function of the agent. With the advent of agents instantiated with large-language models (LLMs), which are typically pre-trained, we argue this does not capture the essential aspects of AI safety because in the real world there is not a one-to-one correspondence between designer and agent, and the many agents, both artificial and human, have heterogeneous values. Therefore, there is an economic aspect to AI safety and the principal-agent problem is likely to arise. In a principal-agent problem conflict arises because of information asymmetry together with inherent misalignment between the utility of the agent and its principal, and this inherent misalignment cannot be overcome by coercing the agent into adopting a desired utility function through training. We argue the assumptions underlying principal-agent problems are crucial to capturing the essence of safety problems involving pre-trained AI models in real-world situations. Taking an empirical approach to AI safety, we investigate how GPT models respond in principal-agent conflicts. We find that agents based on both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 override their principal's objectives in a simple online shopping task, showing clear evidence of principal-agent conflict. Surprisingly, the earlier GPT-3.5 model exhibits more nuanced behaviour in response to changes in information asymmetry, whereas the later GPT-4 model is more rigid in adhering to its prior alignment. Our results highlight the importance of incorporating principles from economics into the alignment process. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Towards General Game Representations: Decomposing Games Pixels into  Content and Style  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11141  
**Abstract:** On-screen game footage contains rich contextual information that players process when playing and experiencing a game. Learning pixel representations of games can benefit artificial intelligence across several downstream tasks including game-playing agents, procedural content generation, and player modelling. The generalizability of these methods, however, remains a challenge, as learned representations should ideally be shared across games with similar game mechanics. This could allow, for instance, game-playing agents trained on one game to perform well in similar games with no re-training. This paper explores how generalizable pre-trained computer vision encoders can be for such tasks, by decomposing the latent space into content embeddings and style embeddings. The goal is to minimize the domain gap between games of the same genre when it comes to game content critical for downstream tasks, and ignore differences in graphical style. We employ a pre-trained Vision Transformer encoder and a decomposition technique based on game genres to obtain separate content and style embeddings. Our findings show that the decomposed embeddings achieve style invariance across multiple games while still maintaining strong content extraction capabilities. We argue that the proposed decomposition of content and style offers better generalization capacities across game environments independently of the downstream task. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** UMLS-KGI-BERT: Data-Centric Knowledge Integration in Transformers for  Biomedical Entity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11170  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained transformer language models (LMs) have in recent years become the dominant paradigm in applied NLP. These models have achieved state-of-the-art performance on tasks such as information extraction, question answering, sentiment analysis, document classification and many others. In the biomedical domain, significant progress has been made in adapting this paradigm to NLP tasks that require the integration of domain-specific knowledge as well as statistical modelling of language. In particular, research in this area has focused on the question of how best to construct LMs that take into account not only the patterns of token distribution in medical text, but also the wealth of structured information contained in terminology resources such as the UMLS. This work contributes a data-centric paradigm for enriching the language representations of biomedical transformer-encoder LMs by extracting text sequences from the UMLS. This allows for graph-based learning objectives to be combined with masked-language pre-training. Preliminary results from experiments in the extension of pre-trained LMs as well as training from scratch show that this framework improves downstream performance on multiple biomedical and clinical Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** UP-DP: Unsupervised Prompt Learning for Data Pre-Selection with  Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11227  
**Abstract:** In this study, we investigate the task of data pre-selection, which aims to select instances for labeling from an unlabeled dataset through a single pass, thereby optimizing performance for undefined downstream tasks with a limited annotation budget. Previous approaches to data pre-selection relied solely on visual features extracted from foundation models, such as CLIP and BLIP-2, but largely ignored the powerfulness of text features. In this work, we argue that, with proper design, the joint feature space of both vision and text can yield a better representation for data pre-selection. To this end, we introduce UP-DP, a simple yet effective unsupervised prompt learning approach that adapts vision-language models, like BLIP-2, for data pre-selection. Specifically, with the BLIP-2 parameters frozen, we train text prompts to extract the joint features with improved representation, ensuring a diverse cluster structure that covers the entire dataset. We extensively compare our method with the state-of-the-art using seven benchmark datasets in different settings, achieving up to a performance gain of 20%. Interestingly, the prompts learned from one dataset demonstrate significant generalizability and can be applied directly to enhance the feature extraction of BLIP-2 from other datasets. To the best of our knowledge, UP-DP is the first work to incorporate unsupervised prompt learning in a vision-language model for data pre-selection. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** QDC: Quantum Diffusion Convolution Kernels on Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11234  
**Abstract:** Graph convolutional neural networks (GCNs) operate by aggregating messages over local neighborhoods given the prediction task under interest. Many GCNs can be understood as a form of generalized diffusion of input features on the graph, and significant work has been dedicated to improving predictive accuracy by altering the ways of message passing. In this work, we propose a new convolution kernel that effectively rewires the graph according to the occupation correlations of the vertices by trading on the generalized diffusion paradigm for the propagation of a quantum particle over the graph. We term this new convolution kernel the Quantum Diffusion Convolution (QDC) operator. In addition, we introduce a multiscale variant that combines messages from the QDC operator and the traditional combinatorial Laplacian. To understand our method, we explore the spectral dependence of homophily and the importance of quantum dynamics in the construction of a bandpass filter. Through these studies, as well as experiments on a range of datasets, we observe that QDC improves predictive performance on the widely used benchmark datasets when compared to similar methods. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** A Systematic Evaluation of Federated Learning on Biomedical Natural  Language Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11254  
**Abstract:** Language models (LMs) like BERT and GPT have revolutionized natural language processing (NLP). However, privacy-sensitive domains, particularly the medical field, face challenges to train LMs due to limited data access and privacy constraints imposed by regulations like the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA) and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Federated learning (FL) offers a decentralized solution that enables collaborative learning while ensuring the preservation of data privacy. In this study, we systematically evaluate FL in medicine across $2$ biomedical NLP tasks using $6$ LMs encompassing $8$ corpora. Our results showed that: 1) FL models consistently outperform LMs trained on individual client's data and sometimes match the model trained with polled data; 2) With the fixed number of total data, LMs trained using FL with more clients exhibit inferior performance, but pre-trained transformer-based models exhibited greater resilience. 3) LMs trained using FL perform nearly on par with the model trained with pooled data when clients' data are IID distributed while exhibiting visible gaps with non-IID data. Our code is available at: https://github.com/PL97/FedNLP 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** DPM-OT: A New Diffusion Probabilistic Model Based on Optimal Transport  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11308  
**Abstract:** Sampling from diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) can be viewed as a piecewise distribution transformation, which generally requires hundreds or thousands of steps of the inverse diffusion trajectory to get a high-quality image. Recent progress in designing fast samplers for DPMs achieves a trade-off between sampling speed and sample quality by knowledge distillation or adjusting the variance schedule or the denoising equation. However, it can't be optimal in both aspects and often suffer from mode mixture in short steps. To tackle this problem, we innovatively regard inverse diffusion as an optimal transport (OT) problem between latents at different stages and propose the DPM-OT, a unified learning framework for fast DPMs with a direct expressway represented by OT map, which can generate high-quality samples within around 10 function evaluations. By calculating the semi-discrete optimal transport map between the data latents and the white noise, we obtain an expressway from the prior distribution to the data distribution, while significantly alleviating the problem of mode mixture. In addition, we give the error bound of the proposed method, which theoretically guarantees the stability of the algorithm. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness and advantages of DPM-OT in terms of speed and quality (FID and mode mixture), thus representing an efficient solution for generative modeling. Source codes are available at https://github.com/cognaclee/DPM-OT 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Generating Image-Specific Text Improves Fine-grained Image  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11315  
**Abstract:** Recent vision-language models outperform vision-only models on many image classification tasks. However, because of the absence of paired text/image descriptions, it remains difficult to fine-tune these models for fine-grained image classification. In this work, we propose a method, GIST, for generating image-specific fine-grained text descriptions from image-only datasets, and show that these text descriptions can be used to improve classification. Key parts of our method include 1. prompting a pretrained large language model with domain-specific prompts to generate diverse fine-grained text descriptions for each class and 2. using a pretrained vision-language model to match each image to label-preserving text descriptions that capture relevant visual features in the image. We demonstrate the utility of GIST by fine-tuning vision-language models on the image-and-generated-text pairs to learn an aligned vision-language representation space for improved classification. We evaluate our learned representation space in full-shot and few-shot scenarios across four diverse fine-grained classification datasets, each from a different domain. Our method achieves an average improvement of $4.1\%$ in accuracy over CLIP linear probes and an average of $1.1\%$ improvement in accuracy over the previous state-of-the-art image-text classification method on the full-shot datasets. Our method achieves similar improvements across few-shot regimes. Code is available at https://github.com/emu1729/GIST. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Tri-MipRF: Tri-Mip Representation for Efficient Anti-Aliasing Neural  Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11335  
**Abstract:** Despite the tremendous progress in neural radiance fields (NeRF), we still face a dilemma of the trade-off between quality and efficiency, e.g., MipNeRF presents fine-detailed and anti-aliased renderings but takes days for training, while Instant-ngp can accomplish the reconstruction in a few minutes but suffers from blurring or aliasing when rendering at various distances or resolutions due to ignoring the sampling area. To this end, we propose a novel Tri-Mip encoding that enables both instant reconstruction and anti-aliased high-fidelity rendering for neural radiance fields. The key is to factorize the pre-filtered 3D feature spaces in three orthogonal mipmaps. In this way, we can efficiently perform 3D area sampling by taking advantage of 2D pre-filtered feature maps, which significantly elevates the rendering quality without sacrificing efficiency. To cope with the novel Tri-Mip representation, we propose a cone-casting rendering technique to efficiently sample anti-aliased 3D features with the Tri-Mip encoding considering both pixel imaging and observing distance. Extensive experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate our method achieves state-of-the-art rendering quality and reconstruction speed while maintaining a compact representation that reduces 25% model size compared against Instant-ngp. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** A Two-stage Fine-tuning Strategy for Generalizable Manipulation Skill of  Embodied AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11343  
**Abstract:** The advent of Chat-GPT has led to a surge of interest in Embodied AI. However, many existing Embodied AI models heavily rely on massive interactions with training environments, which may not be practical in real-world situations. To this end, the Maniskill2 has introduced a full-physics simulation benchmark for manipulating various 3D objects. This benchmark enables agents to be trained using diverse datasets of demonstrations and evaluates their ability to generalize to unseen scenarios in testing environments. In this paper, we propose a novel two-stage fine-tuning strategy that aims to further enhance the generalization capability of our model based on the Maniskill2 benchmark. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by achieving the 1st prize in all three tracks of the ManiSkill2 Challenge. Our findings highlight the potential of our method to improve the generalization abilities of Embodied AI models and pave the way for their ractical applications in real-world scenarios. All codes and models of our solution is available at https://github.com/xtli12/GXU-LIPE.git 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** DEFTri: A Few-Shot Label Fused Contextual Representation Learning For  Product Defect Triage in e-Commerce  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11344  
**Abstract:** Defect Triage is a time-sensitive and critical process in a large-scale agile software development lifecycle for e-commerce. Inefficiencies arising from human and process dependencies in this domain have motivated research in automated approaches using machine learning to accurately assign defects to qualified teams. This work proposes a novel framework for automated defect triage (DEFTri) using fine-tuned state-of-the-art pre-trained BERT on labels fused text embeddings to improve contextual representations from human-generated product defects. For our multi-label text classification defect triage task, we also introduce a Walmart proprietary dataset of product defects using weak supervision and adversarial learning, in a few-shot setting. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** CohortGPT: An Enhanced GPT for Participant Recruitment in Clinical Study  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11346  
**Abstract:** Participant recruitment based on unstructured medical texts such as clinical notes and radiology reports has been a challenging yet important task for the cohort establishment in clinical research. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have achieved tremendous success in various downstream tasks thanks to their promising performance in language understanding, inference, and generation. It is then natural to test their feasibility in solving the cohort recruitment task, which involves the classification of a given paragraph of medical text into disease label(s). However, when applied to knowledge-intensive problem settings such as medical text classification, where the LLMs are expected to understand the decision made by human experts and accurately identify the implied disease labels, the LLMs show a mediocre performance. A possible explanation is that, by only using the medical text, the LLMs neglect to use the rich context of additional information that languages afford. To this end, we propose to use a knowledge graph as auxiliary information to guide the LLMs in making predictions. Moreover, to further boost the LLMs adapt to the problem setting, we apply a chain-of-thought (CoT) sample selection strategy enhanced by reinforcement learning, which selects a set of CoT samples given each individual medical report. Experimental results and various ablation studies show that our few-shot learning method achieves satisfactory performance compared with fine-tuning strategies and gains superb advantages when the available data is limited. The code and sample dataset of the proposed CohortGPT model is available at: https://anonymous.4open.science/r/CohortGPT-4872/ 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** What can a Single Attention Layer Learn? A Study Through the Random  Features Lens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11353  
**Abstract:** Attention layers -- which map a sequence of inputs to a sequence of outputs -- are core building blocks of the Transformer architecture which has achieved significant breakthroughs in modern artificial intelligence. This paper presents a rigorous theoretical study on the learning and generalization of a single multi-head attention layer, with a sequence of key vectors and a separate query vector as input. We consider the random feature setting where the attention layer has a large number of heads, with randomly sampled frozen query and key matrices, and trainable value matrices. We show that such a random-feature attention layer can express a broad class of target functions that are permutation invariant to the key vectors. We further provide quantitative excess risk bounds for learning these target functions from finite samples, using random feature attention with finitely many heads. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** ParGANDA: Making Synthetic Pedestrians A Reality For Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11360  
**Abstract:** Object detection is the key technique to a number of Computer Vision applications, but it often requires large amounts of annotated data to achieve decent results. Moreover, for pedestrian detection specifically, the collected data might contain some personally identifiable information (PII), which is highly restricted in many countries. This label intensive and privacy concerning task has recently led to an increasing interest in training the detection models using synthetically generated pedestrian datasets collected with a photo-realistic video game engine. The engine is able to generate unlimited amounts of data with precise and consistent annotations, which gives potential for significant gains in the real-world applications. However, the use of synthetic data for training introduces a synthetic-to-real domain shift aggravating the final performance. To close the gap between the real and synthetic data, we propose to use a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), which performsparameterized unpaired image-to-image translation to generate more realistic images. The key benefit of using the GAN is its intrinsic preference of low-level changes to geometric ones, which means annotations of a given synthetic image remain accurate even after domain translation is performed thus eliminating the need for labeling real data. We extensively experimented with the proposed method using MOTSynth dataset to train and MOT17 and MOT20 detection datasets to test, with experimental results demonstrating the effectiveness of this method. Our approach not only produces visually plausible samples but also does not require any labels of the real domain thus making it applicable to the variety of downstream tasks. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** LatentAugment: Data Augmentation via Guided Manipulation of GAN's Latent  Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11375  
**Abstract:** Data Augmentation (DA) is a technique to increase the quantity and diversity of the training data, and by that alleviate overfitting and improve generalisation. However, standard DA produces synthetic data for augmentation with limited diversity. Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) may unlock additional information in a dataset by generating synthetic samples having the appearance of real images. However, these models struggle to simultaneously address three key requirements: fidelity and high-quality samples; diversity and mode coverage; and fast sampling. Indeed, GANs generate high-quality samples rapidly, but have poor mode coverage, limiting their adoption in DA applications. We propose LatentAugment, a DA strategy that overcomes the low diversity of GANs, opening up for use in DA applications. Without external supervision, LatentAugment modifies latent vectors and moves them into latent space regions to maximise the synthetic images' diversity and fidelity. It is also agnostic to the dataset and the downstream task. A wide set of experiments shows that LatentAugment improves the generalisation of a deep model translating from MRI-to-CT beating both standard DA as well GAN-based sampling. Moreover, still in comparison with GAN-based sampling, LatentAugment synthetic samples show superior mode coverage and diversity. Code is available at: https://github.com/ltronchin/LatentAugment. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Is ChatGPT Involved in Texts? Measure the Polish Ratio to Detect  ChatGPT-Generated Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11380  
**Abstract:** The remarkable capabilities of large-scale language models, such as ChatGPT, in text generation have incited awe and spurred researchers to devise detectors to mitigate potential risks, including misinformation, phishing, and academic dishonesty. Despite this, most previous studies, including HC3, have been predominantly geared towards creating detectors that differentiate between purely ChatGPT-generated texts and human-authored texts. This approach, however, fails to work on discerning texts generated through human-machine collaboration, such as ChatGPT-polished texts. Addressing this gap, we introduce a novel dataset termed HPPT (ChatGPT-polished academic abstracts), facilitating the construction of more robust detectors. It diverges from extant corpora by comprising pairs of human-written and ChatGPT-polished abstracts instead of purely ChatGPT-generated texts. Additionally, we propose the "Polish Ratio" method, an innovative measure of ChatGPT's involvement in text generation based on editing distance. It provides a mechanism to measure the degree of human originality in the resulting text. Our experimental results show our proposed model has better robustness on the HPPT dataset and two existing datasets (HC3 and CDB). Furthermore, the "Polish Ratio" we proposed offers a more comprehensive explanation by quantifying the degree of ChatGPT involvement, which indicates that a Polish Ratio value greater than 0.2 signifies ChatGPT involvement and a value exceeding 0.6 implies that ChatGPT generates most of the text. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Large Language Model-based System to Provide Immediate Feedback to  Students in Flipped Classroom Preparation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11388  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a system that uses large language models to provide immediate feedback to students in flipped classroom preparation learning. This study aimed to solve challenges in the flipped classroom model, such as ensuring that students are emotionally engaged and motivated to learn. Students often have questions about the content of lecture videos in the preparation of flipped classrooms, but it is difficult for teachers to answer them immediately. The proposed system was developed using the ChatGPT API on a video-watching support system for preparation learning that is being used in real practice. Answers from ChatGPT often do not align with the context of the student's question. Therefore, this paper also proposes a method to align the answer with the context. This paper also proposes a method to collect the teacher's answers to the students' questions and use them as additional guides for the students. This paper discusses the design and implementation of the proposed system. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Latent-OFER: Detect, Mask, and Reconstruct with Latent Vectors for  Occluded Facial Expression Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11404  
**Abstract:** Most research on facial expression recognition (FER) is conducted in highly controlled environments, but its performance is often unacceptable when applied to real-world situations. This is because when unexpected objects occlude the face, the FER network faces difficulties extracting facial features and accurately predicting facial expressions. Therefore, occluded FER (OFER) is a challenging problem. Previous studies on occlusion-aware FER have typically required fully annotated facial images for training. However, collecting facial images with various occlusions and expression annotations is time-consuming and expensive. Latent-OFER, the proposed method, can detect occlusions, restore occluded parts of the face as if they were unoccluded, and recognize them, improving FER accuracy. This approach involves three steps: First, the vision transformer (ViT)-based occlusion patch detector masks the occluded position by training only latent vectors from the unoccluded patches using the support vector data description algorithm. Second, the hybrid reconstruction network generates the masking position as a complete image using the ViT and convolutional neural network (CNN). Last, the expression-relevant latent vector extractor retrieves and uses expression-related information from all latent vectors by applying a CNN-based class activation map. This mechanism has a significant advantage in preventing performance degradation from occlusion by unseen objects. The experimental results on several databases demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method over state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Subject-Diffusion:Open Domain Personalized Text-to-Image Generation  without Test-time Fine-tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11410  
**Abstract:** Recent progress in personalized image generation using diffusion models has been significant. However, development in the area of open-domain and non-fine-tuning personalized image generation is proceeding rather slowly. In this paper, we propose Subject-Diffusion, a novel open-domain personalized image generation model that, in addition to not requiring test-time fine-tuning, also only requires a single reference image to support personalized generation of single- or multi-subject in any domain. Firstly, we construct an automatic data labeling tool and use the LAION-Aesthetics dataset to construct a large-scale dataset consisting of 76M images and their corresponding subject detection bounding boxes, segmentation masks and text descriptions. Secondly, we design a new unified framework that combines text and image semantics by incorporating coarse location and fine-grained reference image control to maximize subject fidelity and generalization. Furthermore, we also adopt an attention control mechanism to support multi-subject generation. Extensive qualitative and quantitative results demonstrate that our method outperforms other SOTA frameworks in single, multiple, and human customized image generation. Please refer to our \href{https://oppo-mente-lab.github.io/subject_diffusion/}{project page} 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** FaceCLIPNeRF: Text-driven 3D Face Manipulation using Deformable Neural  Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11418  
**Abstract:** As recent advances in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have enabled high-fidelity 3D face reconstruction and novel view synthesis, its manipulation also became an essential task in 3D vision. However, existing manipulation methods require extensive human labor, such as a user-provided semantic mask and manual attribute search unsuitable for non-expert users. Instead, our approach is designed to require a single text to manipulate a face reconstructed with NeRF. To do so, we first train a scene manipulator, a latent code-conditional deformable NeRF, over a dynamic scene to control a face deformation using the latent code. However, representing a scene deformation with a single latent code is unfavorable for compositing local deformations observed in different instances. As so, our proposed Position-conditional Anchor Compositor (PAC) learns to represent a manipulated scene with spatially varying latent codes. Their renderings with the scene manipulator are then optimized to yield high cosine similarity to a target text in CLIP embedding space for text-driven manipulation. To the best of our knowledge, our approach is the first to address the text-driven manipulation of a face reconstructed with NeRF. Extensive results, comparisons, and ablation studies demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** On the convergence order of the Euler scheme for scalar SDEs with  Hölder-type diffusion coefficients  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11448  
**Abstract:** We study the Euler scheme for scalar non-autonomous stochastic differential equations, whose diffusion coefficient is not globally Lipschitz but a fractional power of a globally Lipschitz function. We analyse the strong error and establish a criterion, which relates the convergence order of the Euler scheme to an inverse moment condition for the diffusion coefficient. Our result in particular applies to Cox-Ingersoll-Ross-, Chan-Karolyi-Longstaff-Sanders- or Wright-Fisher-type stochastic differential equations and thus provides a unifying framework. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** AIGC Empowering Telecom Sector White Paper  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11449  
**Abstract:** In the global craze of GPT, people have deeply realized that AI, as a transformative technology and key force in economic and social development, will bring great leaps and breakthroughs to the global industry and profoundly influence the future world competition pattern. As the builder and operator of information and communication infrastructure, the telecom sector provides infrastructure support for the development of AI, and even takes the lead in the implementation of AI applications. How to enable the application of AIGC (GPT) and implement AIGC in the telecom sector are questions that telecom practitioners must ponder and answer. Through the study of GPT, a typical representative of AIGC, the authors have analyzed how GPT empowers the telecom sector in the form of scenarios, discussed the gap between the current GPT general model and telecom services, proposed for the first time a Telco Augmented Cognition capability system, provided answers to how to construct a telecom service GPT in the telecom sector, and carried out various practices. Our counterparts in the industry are expected to focus on collaborative innovation around telecom and AI, build an open and shared innovation ecosystem, promote the deep integration of AI and telecom sector, and accelerate the construction of next-generation information infrastructure, in an effort to facilitate the digital transformation of the economy and society. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** A Deep Learning Approach for Overall Survival Analysis with Missing  Values  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11465  
**Abstract:** One of the most challenging fields where Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be applied is lung cancer research, specifically non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In particular, overall survival (OS) is a vital indicator of patient status, helping to identify subgroups with diverse survival probabilities, enabling tailored treatment and improved OS rates. In this analysis, there are two challenges to take into account. First, few studies effectively exploit the information available from each patient, leveraging both uncensored (i.e., dead) and censored (i.e., survivors) patients, considering also the death times. Second, the handling of incomplete data is a common issue in the medical field. This problem is typically tackled through the use of imputation methods. Our objective is to present an AI model able to overcome these limits, effectively learning from both censored and uncensored patients and their available features, for the prediction of OS for NSCLC patients. We present a novel approach to survival analysis in the context of NSCLC, which exploits the strengths of the transformer architecture accounting for only available features without requiring any imputation strategy. By making use of ad-hoc losses for OS, it accounts for both censored and uncensored patients, considering risks over time. We evaluated the results over a period of 6 years using different time granularities obtaining a Ct-index, a time-dependent variant of the C-index, of 71.97, 77.58 and 80.72 for time units of 1 month, 1 year and 2 years, respectively, outperforming all state-of-the-art methods regardless of the imputation method used. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Predict, Refine, Synthesize: Self-Guiding Diffusion Models for  Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11494  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have achieved state-of-the-art performance in generative modeling tasks across various domains. Prior works on time series diffusion models have primarily focused on developing conditional models tailored to specific forecasting or imputation tasks. In this work, we explore the potential of task-agnostic, unconditional diffusion models for several time series applications. We propose TSDiff, an unconditionally trained diffusion model for time series. Our proposed self-guidance mechanism enables conditioning TSDiff for downstream tasks during inference, without requiring auxiliary networks or altering the training procedure. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on three different time series tasks: forecasting, refinement, and synthetic data generation. First, we show that TSDiff is competitive with several task-specific conditional forecasting methods (predict). Second, we leverage the learned implicit probability density of TSDiff to iteratively refine the predictions of base forecasters with reduced computational overhead over reverse diffusion (refine). Notably, the generative performance of the model remains intact -- downstream forecasters trained on synthetic samples from TSDiff outperform forecasters that are trained on samples from other state-of-the-art generative time series models, occasionally even outperforming models trained on real data (synthesize). 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** CopyRNeRF: Protecting the CopyRight of Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11526  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have the potential to be a major representation of media. Since training a NeRF has never been an easy task, the protection of its model copyright should be a priority. In this paper, by analyzing the pros and cons of possible copyright protection solutions, we propose to protect the copyright of NeRF models by replacing the original color representation in NeRF with a watermarked color representation. Then, a distortion-resistant rendering scheme is designed to guarantee robust message extraction in 2D renderings of NeRF. Our proposed method can directly protect the copyright of NeRF models while maintaining high rendering quality and bit accuracy when compared among optional solutions. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** YOLOPose V2: Understanding and Improving Transformer-based 6D Pose  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11550  
**Abstract:** 6D object pose estimation is a crucial prerequisite for autonomous robot manipulation applications. The state-of-the-art models for pose estimation are convolutional neural network (CNN)-based. Lately, Transformers, an architecture originally proposed for natural language processing, is achieving state-of-the-art results in many computer vision tasks as well. Equipped with the multi-head self-attention mechanism, Transformers enable simple single-stage end-to-end architectures for learning object detection and 6D object pose estimation jointly. In this work, we propose YOLOPose (short form for You Only Look Once Pose estimation), a Transformer-based multi-object 6D pose estimation method based on keypoint regression and an improved variant of the YOLOPose model. In contrast to the standard heatmaps for predicting keypoints in an image, we directly regress the keypoints. Additionally, we employ a learnable orientation estimation module to predict the orientation from the keypoints. Along with a separate translation estimation module, our model is end-to-end differentiable. Our method is suitable for real-time applications and achieves results comparable to state-of-the-art methods. We analyze the role of object queries in our architecture and reveal that the object queries specialize in detecting objects in specific image regions. Furthermore, we quantify the accuracy trade-off of using datasets of smaller sizes to train our model. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** CycleIK: Neuro-inspired Inverse Kinematics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11554  
**Abstract:** The paper introduces CycleIK, a neuro-robotic approach that wraps two novel neuro-inspired methods for the inverse kinematics (IK) task, a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), and a Multi-Layer Perceptron architecture. These methods can be used in a standalone fashion, but we also show how embedding these into a hybrid neuro-genetic IK pipeline allows for further optimization via sequential least-squares programming (SLSQP) or a genetic algorithm (GA). The models are trained and tested on dense datasets that were collected from random robot configurations of the new Neuro-Inspired COLlaborator (NICOL), a semi-humanoid robot with two redundant 8-DoF manipulators. We utilize the weighted multi-objective function from the state-of-the-art BioIK method to support the training process and our hybrid neuro-genetic architecture. We show that the neural models can compete with state-of-the-art IK approaches, which allows for deployment directly to robotic hardware. Additionally, it is shown that the incorporation of the genetic algorithm improves the precision while simultaneously reducing the overall runtime. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Mixbiotic society measures: Assessment of community well-going as living  system  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11594  
**Abstract:** Social isolation is caused by the impoverishment of community (atomism) and fragmentation is caused by the enlargement of in-group (mobism), both of which can be viewed as social problems related to communication. To solve these problems, the philosophical world has proposed the concept of "mixbiotic society," in which individuals with freedom and diverse values mix and mingle to recognize their respective "fundamental incapability" each other and sublimate into solidarity. Based on this concept, this study proposes new mixbiotic society measures to evaluate dynamic communication patterns with reference to classification in cellular automata and particle reaction diffusion that simulate living phenomena. Specifically, the hypothesis of measures corresponding to the four classes was formulated, and the hypothesis was validated by simulating the generation and disappearance of communication. As a result, considering communication patterns as multidimensional vectors, it found that the mean of Euclidean distance for "mobism," the variance of the relative change in distance for "atomism," the composite measure that multiplies the mean and variance of cosine similarity for "mixism," which corresponds to the well-going of mixbiotic society, and the almost zero measures for "nihilism," are suitable. Then, evaluating seven real-society datasets using these measures, we showed that the mixism measure is useful for assessing the livingness of communication, and that it is possible to typify communities based on plural measures. The measures established in this study are superior to conventional analysis in that they can evaluate dynamic patterns, they are simple to calculate, and their meanings are easy to interpret. As a future development, the mixbiotic society measures will be used in the fields of digital democracy and platform cooperativism toward a desirable society. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** FEDD -- Fair, Efficient, and Diverse Diffusion-based Lesion Segmentation  and Malignancy Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11654  
**Abstract:** Skin diseases affect millions of people worldwide, across all ethnicities. Increasing diagnosis accessibility requires fair and accurate segmentation and classification of dermatology images. However, the scarcity of annotated medical images, especially for rare diseases and underrepresented skin tones, poses a challenge to the development of fair and accurate models. In this study, we introduce a Fair, Efficient, and Diverse Diffusion-based framework for skin lesion segmentation and malignancy classification. FEDD leverages semantically meaningful feature embeddings learned through a denoising diffusion probabilistic backbone and processes them via linear probes to achieve state-of-the-art performance on Diverse Dermatology Images (DDI). We achieve an improvement in intersection over union of 0.18, 0.13, 0.06, and 0.07 while using only 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20% labeled samples, respectively. Additionally, FEDD trained on 10% of DDI demonstrates malignancy classification accuracy of 81%, 14% higher compared to the state-of-the-art. We showcase high efficiency in data-constrained scenarios while providing fair performance for diverse skin tones and rare malignancy conditions. Our newly annotated DDI segmentation masks and training code can be found on https://github.com/hectorcarrion/fedd. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Enhancing CLIP with GPT-4: Harnessing Visual Descriptions as Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11661  
**Abstract:** Contrastive pretrained large Vision-Language Models (VLMs) like CLIP have revolutionized visual representation learning by providing good performance on downstream datasets. VLMs are 0-shot adapted to a downstream dataset by designing prompts that are relevant to the dataset. Such prompt engineering makes use of domain expertise and a validation dataset. Meanwhile, recent developments in generative pretrained models like GPT-4 mean they can be used as advanced internet search tools. They can also be manipulated to provide visual information in any structure. In this work, we show that GPT-4 can be used to generate text that is visually descriptive and how this can be used to adapt CLIP to downstream tasks. We show considerable improvements in 0-shot transfer accuracy on specialized fine-grained datasets like EuroSAT (~7%), DTD (~7%), SUN397 (~4.6%), and CUB (~3.3%) when compared to CLIP's default prompt. We also design a simple few-shot adapter that learns to choose the best possible sentences to construct generalizable classifiers that outperform the recently proposed CoCoOP by ~2% on average and by over 4% on 4 specialized fine-grained datasets. We will release the code, prompts, and auxiliary text dataset upon acceptance. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** SynerGPT: In-Context Learning for Personalized Drug Synergy Prediction  and Drug Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11694  
**Abstract:** Predicting synergistic drug combinations can help accelerate discovery of cancer treatments, particularly therapies personalized to a patient's specific tumor via biopsied cells. In this paper, we propose a novel setting and models for in-context drug synergy learning. We are given a small "personalized dataset" of 10-20 drug synergy relationships in the context of specific cancer cell targets. Our goal is to predict additional drug synergy relationships in that context. Inspired by recent work that pre-trains a GPT language model (LM) to "in-context learn" common function classes, we devise novel pre-training schemes that enable a GPT model to in-context learn "drug synergy functions". Our model -- which does not use any textual corpora, molecular fingerprints, protein interaction or any other domain-specific knowledge -- is able to achieve competitive results. We further integrate our in-context approach with a genetic algorithm to optimize model prompts and select synergy candidates to test after conducting a patient biopsy. Finally, we explore a novel task of inverse drug design which can potentially enable the design of drugs that synergize specifically to target a given patient's "personalized dataset". Our findings can potentially have an important impact on precision cancer medicine, and also raise intriguing questions on non-textual pre-training for LMs. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** SACReg: Scene-Agnostic Coordinate Regression for Visual Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11702  
**Abstract:** Scene coordinates regression (SCR), i.e., predicting 3D coordinates for every pixel of a given image, has recently shown promising potential. However, existing methods remain mostly scene-specific or limited to small scenes and thus hardly scale to realistic datasets. In this paper, we propose a new paradigm where a single generic SCR model is trained once to be then deployed to new test scenes, regardless of their scale and without further finetuning. For a given query image, it collects inputs from off-the-shelf image retrieval techniques and Structure-from-Motion databases: a list of relevant database images with sparse pointwise 2D-3D annotations. The model is based on the transformer architecture and can take a variable number of images and sparse 2D-3D annotations as input. It is trained on a few diverse datasets and significantly outperforms other scene regression approaches on several benchmarks, including scene-specific models, for visual localization. In particular, we set a new state of the art on the Cambridge localization benchmark, even outperforming feature-matching-based approaches. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Statement-based Memory for Neural Source Code Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11709  
**Abstract:** Source code summarization is the task of writing natural language descriptions of source code behavior. Code summarization underpins software documentation for programmers. Short descriptions of code help programmers understand the program quickly without having to read the code itself. Lately, neural source code summarization has emerged as the frontier of research into automated code summarization techniques. By far the most popular targets for summarization are program subroutines. The idea, in a nutshell, is to train an encoder-decoder neural architecture using large sets of examples of subroutines extracted from code repositories. The encoder represents the code and the decoder represents the summary. However, most current approaches attempt to treat the subroutine as a single unit. For example, by taking the entire subroutine as input to a Transformer or RNN-based encoder. But code behavior tends to depend on the flow from statement to statement. Normally dynamic analysis may shed light on this flow, but dynamic analysis on hundreds of thousands of examples in large datasets is not practical. In this paper, we present a statement-based memory encoder that learns the important elements of flow during training, leading to a statement-based subroutine representation without the need for dynamic analysis. We implement our encoder for code summarization and demonstrate a significant improvement over the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Diffusion Models for Probabilistic Deconvolution of Galaxy Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11122  
**Abstract:** Telescopes capture images with a particular point spread function (PSF). Inferring what an image would have looked like with a much sharper PSF, a problem known as PSF deconvolution, is ill-posed because PSF convolution is not an invertible transformation. Deep generative models are appealing for PSF deconvolution because they can infer a posterior distribution over candidate images that, if convolved with the PSF, could have generated the observation. However, classical deep generative models such as VAEs and GANs often provide inadequate sample diversity. As an alternative, we propose a classifier-free conditional diffusion model for PSF deconvolution of galaxy images. We demonstrate that this diffusion model captures a greater diversity of possible deconvolutions compared to a conditional VAE. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** UWAT-GAN: Fundus Fluorescein Angiography Synthesis via Ultra-wide-angle  Transformation Multi-scale GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11530  
**Abstract:** Fundus photography is an essential examination for clinical and differential diagnosis of fundus diseases. Recently, Ultra-Wide-angle Fundus (UWF) techniques, UWF Fluorescein Angiography (UWF-FA) and UWF Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscopy (UWF-SLO) have been gradually put into use. However, Fluorescein Angiography (FA) and UWF-FA require injecting sodium fluorescein which may have detrimental influences. To avoid negative impacts, cross-modality medical image generation algorithms have been proposed. Nevertheless, current methods in fundus imaging could not produce high-resolution images and are unable to capture tiny vascular lesion areas. This paper proposes a novel conditional generative adversarial network (UWAT-GAN) to synthesize UWF-FA from UWF-SLO. Using multi-scale generators and a fusion module patch to better extract global and local information, our model can generate high-resolution images. Moreover, an attention transmit module is proposed to help the decoder learn effectively. Besides, a supervised approach is used to train the network using multiple new weighted losses on different scales of data. Experiments on an in-house UWF image dataset demonstrate the superiority of the UWAT-GAN over the state-of-the-art methods. The source code is available at: https://github.com/Tinysqua/UWAT-GAN. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Learning minimal representations of stochastic processes with  variational autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11608  
**Abstract:** Stochastic processes have found numerous applications in science, as they are broadly used to model a variety of natural phenomena. Due to their intrinsic randomness and uncertainty, they are however difficult to characterize. Here, we introduce an unsupervised machine learning approach to determine the minimal set of parameters required to effectively describe the dynamics of a stochastic process. Our method builds upon an extended $\beta$-variational autoencoder architecture. By means of simulated datasets corresponding to paradigmatic diffusion models, we showcase its effectiveness in extracting the minimal relevant parameters that accurately describe these dynamics. Furthermore, the method enables the generation of new trajectories that faithfully replicate the expected stochastic behavior. Overall, our approach enables for the autonomous discovery of unknown parameters describing stochastic processes, hence enhancing our comprehension of complex phenomena across various fields. 

