**ID:** 1  
**Title:** EmotionPrompt: Leveraging Psychology for Large Language Models  Enhancement via Emotional Stimulus  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11760  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have achieved significant performance in many fields such as reasoning, language understanding, and math problem-solving, and are regarded as a crucial step to artificial general intelligence (AGI). However, the sensitivity of LLMs to prompts remains a major bottleneck for their daily adoption. In this paper, we take inspiration from psychology and propose EmotionPrompt to explore emotional intelligence to enhance the performance of LLMs. EmotionPrompt operates on a remarkably straightforward principle: the incorporation of emotional stimulus into prompts. Experimental results demonstrate that our \method, using the same single prompt templates, significantly outperforms original zero-shot prompt and Zero-shot-CoT on 8 tasks with diverse models: ChatGPT, Vicuna-13b, Bloom, and T5. Further, EmotionPrompt was observed to improve both truthfulness and informativeness. We believe that EmotionPrompt heralds a novel avenue for exploring interdisciplinary knowledge for humans-LLMs interaction. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Fairness of ChatGPT and the Role Of Explainable-Guided Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11761  
**Abstract:** Our research investigates the potential of Large-scale Language Models (LLMs), specifically OpenAI's GPT, in credit risk assessment-a binary classification task. Our findings suggest that LLMs, when directed by judiciously designed prompts and supplemented with domain-specific knowledge, can parallel the performance of traditional Machine Learning (ML) models. Intriguingly, they achieve this with significantly less data-40 times less, utilizing merely 20 data points compared to the ML's 800. LLMs particularly excel in minimizing false positives and enhancing fairness, both being vital aspects of risk analysis. While our results did not surpass those of classical ML models, they underscore the potential of LLMs in analogous tasks, laying a groundwork for future explorations into harnessing the capabilities of LLMs in diverse ML tasks. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Sensi-BERT: Towards Sensitivity Driven Fine-Tuning for  Parameter-Efficient BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11764  
**Abstract:** Large pre-trained language models have recently gained significant traction due to their improved performance on various down-stream tasks like text classification and question answering, requiring only few epochs of fine-tuning. However, their large model sizes often prohibit their applications on resource-constrained edge devices. Existing solutions of yielding parameter-efficient BERT models largely rely on compute-exhaustive training and fine-tuning. Moreover, they often rely on additional compute heavy models to mitigate the performance gap. In this paper, we present Sensi-BERT, a sensitivity driven efficient fine-tuning of BERT models that can take an off-the-shelf pre-trained BERT model and yield highly parameter-efficient models for downstream tasks. In particular, we perform sensitivity analysis to rank each individual parameter tensor, that then is used to trim them accordingly during fine-tuning for a given parameter or FLOPs budget. Our experiments show the efficacy of Sensi-BERT across different downstream tasks including MNLI, QQP, QNLI, and SST-2, demonstrating better performance at similar or smaller parameter budget compared to various existing alternatives. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Recognition of Mental Adjectives in An Efficient and Automatic Style  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11767  
**Abstract:** In recent years, commonsense reasoning has received more and more attention from academic community. We propose a new lexical inference task, Mental and Physical Classification (MPC), to handle commonsense reasoning in a reasoning graph. Mental words relate to mental activities, which fall into six categories: Emotion, Need, Perceiving, Reasoning, Planning and Personality. Physical words describe physical attributes of an object, like color, hardness, speed and malleability. A BERT model is fine-tuned for this task and active learning algorithm is adopted in the training framework to reduce the required annotation resources. The model using ENTROPY strategy achieves satisfactory accuracy and requires only about 300 labeled words. We also compare our result with SentiWordNet to check the difference between MPC and subjectivity classification task in sentiment analysis. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Domain Knowledge Distillation from Large Language Model: An Empirical  Study in the Autonomous Driving Domain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11769  
**Abstract:** Engineering knowledge-based (or expert) systems require extensive manual effort and domain knowledge. As Large Language Models (LLMs) are trained using an enormous amount of cross-domain knowledge, it becomes possible to automate such engineering processes. This paper presents an empirical automation and semi-automation framework for domain knowledge distillation using prompt engineering and the LLM ChatGPT. We assess the framework empirically in the autonomous driving domain and present our key observations. In our implementation, we construct the domain knowledge ontology by "chatting" with ChatGPT. The key finding is that while fully automated domain ontology construction is possible, human supervision and early intervention typically improve efficiency and output quality as they lessen the effects of response randomness and the butterfly effect. We, therefore, also develop a web-based distillation assistant enabling supervision and flexible intervention at runtime. We hope our findings and tools could inspire future research toward revolutionizing the engineering of knowledge-based systems across application domains. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Transsion TSUP's speech recognition system for ASRU 2023 MADASR  Challenge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11778  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a speech recognition system developed by the Transsion Speech Understanding Processing Team (TSUP) for the ASRU 2023 MADASR Challenge. The system focuses on adapting ASR models for low-resource Indian languages and covers all four tracks of the challenge. For tracks 1 and 2, the acoustic model utilized a squeezeformer encoder and bidirectional transformer decoder with joint CTC-Attention training loss. Additionally, an external KenLM language model was used during TLG beam search decoding. For tracks 3 and 4, pretrained IndicWhisper models were employed and finetuned on both the challenge dataset and publicly available datasets. The whisper beam search decoding was also modified to support an external KenLM language model, which enabled better utilization of the additional text provided by the challenge. The proposed method achieved word error rates (WER) of 24.17%, 24.43%, 15.97%, and 15.97% for Bengali language in the four tracks, and WER of 19.61%, 19.54%, 15.48%, and 15.48% for Bhojpuri language in the four tracks. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** LLM Cognitive Judgements Differ From Human  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11787  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have lately been on the spotlight of researchers, businesses, and consumers alike. While the linguistic capabilities of such models have been studied extensively, there is growing interest in investigating them as cognitive subjects. In the present work I examine GPT-3 and ChatGPT capabilities on an limited-data inductive reasoning task from the cognitive science literature. The results suggest that these models' cognitive judgements are not human-like. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Applying QNLP to sentiment analysis in finance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11788  
**Abstract:** As an application domain where the slightest qualitative improvements can yield immense value, finance is a promising candidate for early quantum advantage. Focusing on the rapidly advancing field of Quantum Natural Language Processing (QNLP), we explore the practical applicability of the two central approaches DisCoCat and Quantum-Enhanced Long Short-Term Memory (QLSTM) to the problem of sentiment analysis in finance. Utilizing a novel ChatGPT-based data generation approach, we conduct a case study with more than 1000 realistic sentences and find that QLSTMs can be trained substantially faster than DisCoCat while also achieving close to classical results for their available software implementations. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** PINNsFormer: A Transformer-Based Framework For Physics-Informed Neural  Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11833  
**Abstract:** Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) have emerged as a promising deep learning framework for approximating numerical solutions for partial differential equations (PDEs). While conventional PINNs and most related studies adopt fully-connected multilayer perceptrons (MLP) as the backbone structure, they have neglected the temporal relations in PDEs and failed to approximate the true solution. In this paper, we propose a novel Transformer-based framework, namely PINNsFormer, that accurately approximates PDEs' solutions by capturing the temporal dependencies with multi-head attention mechanisms in Transformer-based models. Instead of approximating point predictions, PINNsFormer adapts input vectors to pseudo sequences and point-wise PINNs loss to a sequential PINNs loss. In addition, PINNsFormer is equipped with a novel activation function, namely Wavelet, which anticipates the Fourier decomposition through deep neural networks. We empirically demonstrate PINNsFormer's ability to capture the PDE solutions for various scenarios, in which conventional PINNs have failed to learn. We also show that PINNsFormer achieves superior approximation accuracy on such problems than conventional PINNs with non-sensitive hyperparameters, in trade of marginal computational and memory costs, with extensive experiments. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** The Looming Threat of Fake and LLM-generated LinkedIn Profiles:  Challenges and Opportunities for Detection and Prevention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11864  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a novel method for detecting fake and Large Language Model (LLM)-generated profiles in the LinkedIn Online Social Network immediately upon registration and before establishing connections. Early fake profile identification is crucial to maintaining the platform's integrity since it prevents imposters from acquiring the private and sensitive information of legitimate users and from gaining an opportunity to increase their credibility for future phishing and scamming activities. This work uses textual information provided in LinkedIn profiles and introduces the Section and Subsection Tag Embedding (SSTE) method to enhance the discriminative characteristics of these data for distinguishing between legitimate profiles and those created by imposters manually or by using an LLM. Additionally, the dearth of a large publicly available LinkedIn dataset motivated us to collect 3600 LinkedIn profiles for our research. We will release our dataset publicly for research purposes. This is, to the best of our knowledge, the first large publicly available LinkedIn dataset for fake LinkedIn account detection. Within our paradigm, we assess static and contextualized word embeddings, including GloVe, Flair, BERT, and RoBERTa. We show that the suggested method can distinguish between legitimate and fake profiles with an accuracy of about 95% across all word embeddings. In addition, we show that SSTE has a promising accuracy for identifying LLM-generated profiles, despite the fact that no LLM-generated profiles were employed during the training phase, and can achieve an accuracy of approximately 90% when only 20 LLM-generated profiles are added to the training set. It is a significant finding since the proliferation of several LLMs in the near future makes it extremely challenging to design a single system that can identify profiles created with various LLMs. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** LAMP: Leveraging Language Prompts for Multi-person Pose Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11934  
**Abstract:** Human-centric visual understanding is an important desideratum for effective human-robot interaction. In order to navigate crowded public places, social robots must be able to interpret the activity of the surrounding humans. This paper addresses one key aspect of human-centric visual understanding, multi-person pose estimation. Achieving good performance on multi-person pose estimation in crowded scenes is difficult due to the challenges of occluded joints and instance separation. In order to tackle these challenges and overcome the limitations of image features in representing invisible body parts, we propose a novel prompt-based pose inference strategy called LAMP (Language Assisted Multi-person Pose estimation). By utilizing the text representations generated by a well-trained language model (CLIP), LAMP can facilitate the understanding of poses on the instance and joint levels, and learn more robust visual representations that are less susceptible to occlusion. This paper demonstrates that language-supervised training boosts the performance of single-stage multi-person pose estimation, and both instance-level and joint-level prompts are valuable for training. The code is available at https://github.com/shengnanh20/LAMP. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Pathology-and-genomics Multimodal Transformer for Survival Outcome  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11952  
**Abstract:** Survival outcome assessment is challenging and inherently associated with multiple clinical factors (e.g., imaging and genomics biomarkers) in cancer. Enabling multimodal analytics promises to reveal novel predictive patterns of patient outcomes. In this study, we propose a multimodal transformer (PathOmics) integrating pathology and genomics insights into colon-related cancer survival prediction. We emphasize the unsupervised pretraining to capture the intrinsic interaction between tissue microenvironments in gigapixel whole slide images (WSIs) and a wide range of genomics data (e.g., mRNA-sequence, copy number variant, and methylation). After the multimodal knowledge aggregation in pretraining, our task-specific model finetuning could expand the scope of data utility applicable to both multi- and single-modal data (e.g., image- or genomics-only). We evaluate our approach on both TCGA colon and rectum cancer cohorts, showing that the proposed approach is competitive and outperforms state-of-the-art studies. Finally, our approach is desirable to utilize the limited number of finetuned samples towards data-efficient analytics for survival outcome prediction. The code is available at https://github.com/Cassie07/PathOmics. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Two-stream Multi-level Dynamic Point Transformer for Two-person  Interaction Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11973  
**Abstract:** As a fundamental aspect of human life, two-person interactions contain meaningful information about people's activities, relationships, and social settings. Human action recognition serves as the foundation for many smart applications, with a strong focus on personal privacy. However, recognizing two-person interactions poses more challenges due to increased body occlusion and overlap compared to single-person actions. In this paper, we propose a point cloud-based network named Two-stream Multi-level Dynamic Point Transformer for two-person interaction recognition. Our model addresses the challenge of recognizing two-person interactions by incorporating local-region spatial information, appearance information, and motion information. To achieve this, we introduce a designed frame selection method named Interval Frame Sampling (IFS), which efficiently samples frames from videos, capturing more discriminative information in a relatively short processing time. Subsequently, a frame features learning module and a two-stream multi-level feature aggregation module extract global and partial features from the sampled frames, effectively representing the local-region spatial information, appearance information, and motion information related to the interactions. Finally, we apply a transformer to perform self-attention on the learned features for the final classification. Extensive experiments are conducted on two large-scale datasets, the interaction subsets of NTU RGB+D 60 and NTU RGB+D 120. The results show that our network outperforms state-of-the-art approaches across all standard evaluation settings. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Why Is Prompt Tuning for Vision-Language Models Robust to Noisy Labels?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11978  
**Abstract:** Vision-language models such as CLIP learn a generic text-image embedding from large-scale training data. A vision-language model can be adapted to a new classification task through few-shot prompt tuning. We find that such a prompt tuning process is highly robust to label noises. This intrigues us to study the key reasons contributing to the robustness of the prompt tuning paradigm. We conducted extensive experiments to explore this property and find the key factors are: 1) the fixed classname tokens provide a strong regularization to the optimization of the model, reducing gradients induced by the noisy samples; 2) the powerful pre-trained image-text embedding that is learned from diverse and generic web data provides strong prior knowledge for image classification. Further, we demonstrate that noisy zero-shot predictions from CLIP can be used to tune its own prompt, significantly enhancing prediction accuracy in the unsupervised setting. The code is available at https://github.com/CEWu/PTNL. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Sparse then Prune: Toward Efficient Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11988  
**Abstract:** The Vision Transformer architecture is a deep learning model inspired by the success of the Transformer model in Natural Language Processing. However, the self-attention mechanism, large number of parameters, and the requirement for a substantial amount of training data still make Vision Transformers computationally burdensome. In this research, we investigate the possibility of applying Sparse Regularization to Vision Transformers and the impact of Pruning, either after Sparse Regularization or without it, on the trade-off between performance and efficiency. To accomplish this, we apply Sparse Regularization and Pruning methods to the Vision Transformer architecture for image classification tasks on the CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and ImageNet-100 datasets. The training process for the Vision Transformer model consists of two parts: pre-training and fine-tuning. Pre-training utilizes ImageNet21K data, followed by fine-tuning for 20 epochs. The results show that when testing with CIFAR-100 and ImageNet-100 data, models with Sparse Regularization can increase accuracy by 0.12%. Furthermore, applying pruning to models with Sparse Regularization yields even better results. Specifically, it increases the average accuracy by 0.568% on CIFAR-10 data, 1.764% on CIFAR-100, and 0.256% on ImageNet-100 data compared to pruning models without Sparse Regularization. Code can be accesed here: https://github.com/yogiprsty/Sparse-ViT 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** On the Effectiveness of Spectral Discriminators for Perceptual Quality  Improvement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12027  
**Abstract:** Several recent studies advocate the use of spectral discriminators, which evaluate the Fourier spectra of images for generative modeling. However, the effectiveness of the spectral discriminators is not well interpreted yet. We tackle this issue by examining the spectral discriminators in the context of perceptual image super-resolution (i.e., GAN-based SR), as SR image quality is susceptible to spectral changes. Our analyses reveal that the spectral discriminator indeed performs better than the ordinary (a.k.a. spatial) discriminator in identifying the differences in the high-frequency range; however, the spatial discriminator holds an advantage in the low-frequency range. Thus, we suggest that the spectral and spatial discriminators shall be used simultaneously. Moreover, we improve the spectral discriminators by first calculating the patch-wise Fourier spectrum and then aggregating the spectra by Transformer. We verify the effectiveness of the proposed method twofold. On the one hand, thanks to the additional spectral discriminator, our obtained SR images have their spectra better aligned to those of the real images, which leads to a better PD tradeoff. On the other hand, our ensembled discriminator predicts the perceptual quality more accurately, as evidenced in the no-reference image quality assessment task. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** FSDiffReg: Feature-wise and Score-wise Diffusion-guided Unsupervised  Deformable Image Registration for Cardiac Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12035  
**Abstract:** Unsupervised deformable image registration is one of the challenging tasks in medical imaging. Obtaining a high-quality deformation field while preserving deformation topology remains demanding amid a series of deep-learning-based solutions. Meanwhile, the diffusion model's latent feature space shows potential in modeling the deformation semantics. To fully exploit the diffusion model's ability to guide the registration task, we present two modules: Feature-wise Diffusion-Guided Module (FDG) and Score-wise Diffusion-Guided Module (SDG). Specifically, FDG uses the diffusion model's multi-scale semantic features to guide the generation of the deformation field. SDG uses the diffusion score to guide the optimization process for preserving deformation topology with barely any additional computation. Experiment results on the 3D medical cardiac image registration task validate our model's ability to provide refined deformation fields with preserved topology effectively. Code is available at: https://github.com/xmed-lab/FSDiffReg.git. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** External Reasoning: Towards Multi-Large-Language-Models Interchangeable  Assistance with Human Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12057  
**Abstract:** Memory is identified as a crucial human faculty that allows for the retention of visual and linguistic information within the hippocampus and neurons in the brain, which can subsequently be retrieved to address real-world challenges that arise through a lifetime of learning. The resolution of complex AI tasks through the application of acquired knowledge represents a stride toward the realization of artificial general intelligence. However, despite the prevalence of Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 , which have displayed remarkable capabilities in language comprehension, generation, interaction, and reasoning, they are inhibited by constraints on context length that preclude the processing of extensive, continually evolving knowledge bases. This paper proposes that LLMs could be augmented through the selective integration of knowledge from external repositories, and in doing so, introduces a novel methodology for External Reasoning, exemplified by ChatPDF. Central to this approach is the establishment of a tiered policy for \textbf{External Reasoning based on Multiple LLM Interchange Assistance}, where the level of support rendered is modulated across entry, intermediate, and advanced tiers based on the complexity of the query, with adjustments made in response to human feedback. A comprehensive evaluation of this methodology is conducted using multiple LLMs and the results indicate state-of-the-art performance, surpassing existing solutions including ChatPDF.com. Moreover, the paper emphasizes that this approach is more efficient compared to the direct processing of full text by LLMs. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Discovering Spatio-Temporal Rationales for Video Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12058  
**Abstract:** This paper strives to solve complex video question answering (VideoQA) which features long video containing multiple objects and events at different time. To tackle the challenge, we highlight the importance of identifying question-critical temporal moments and spatial objects from the vast amount of video content. Towards this, we propose a Spatio-Temporal Rationalization (STR), a differentiable selection module that adaptively collects question-critical moments and objects using cross-modal interaction. The discovered video moments and objects are then served as grounded rationales to support answer reasoning. Based on STR, we further propose TranSTR, a Transformer-style neural network architecture that takes STR as the core and additionally underscores a novel answer interaction mechanism to coordinate STR for answer decoding. Experiments on four datasets show that TranSTR achieves new state-of-the-art (SoTA). Especially, on NExT-QA and Causal-VidQA which feature complex VideoQA, it significantly surpasses the previous SoTA by 5.8\% and 6.8\%, respectively. We then conduct extensive studies to verify the importance of STR as well as the proposed answer interaction mechanism. With the success of TranSTR and our comprehensive analysis, we hope this work can spark more future efforts in complex VideoQA. Code will be released at https://github.com/yl3800/TranSTR. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Iterative Reconstruction Based on Latent Diffusion Model for Sparse Data  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12070  
**Abstract:** Reconstructing Computed tomography (CT) images from sparse measurement is a well-known ill-posed inverse problem. The Iterative Reconstruction (IR) algorithm is a solution to inverse problems. However, recent IR methods require paired data and the approximation of the inverse projection matrix. To address those problems, we present Latent Diffusion Iterative Reconstruction (LDIR), a pioneering zero-shot method that extends IR with a pre-trained Latent Diffusion Model (LDM) as a accurate and efficient data prior. By approximating the prior distribution with an unconditional latent diffusion model, LDIR is the first method to successfully integrate iterative reconstruction and LDM in an unsupervised manner. LDIR makes the reconstruction of high-resolution images more efficient. Moreover, LDIR utilizes the gradient from the data-fidelity term to guide the sampling process of the LDM, therefore, LDIR does not need the approximation of the inverse projection matrix and can solve various CT reconstruction tasks with a single model. Additionally, for enhancing the sample consistency of the reconstruction, we introduce a novel approach that uses historical gradient information to guide the gradient. Our experiments on extremely sparse CT data reconstruction tasks show that LDIR outperforms other state-of-the-art unsupervised and even exceeds supervised methods, establishing it as a leading technique in terms of both quantity and quality. Furthermore, LDIR also achieves competitive performance on nature image tasks. It is worth noting that LDIR also exhibits significantly faster execution times and lower memory consumption compared to methods with similar network settings. Our code will be publicly available. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** A Zero-shot and Few-shot Study of Instruction-Finetuned Large Language  Models Applied to Clinical and Biomedical Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12114  
**Abstract:** We evaluate four state-of-the-art instruction-tuned large language models (LLMs) -- ChatGPT, Flan-T5 UL2, Tk-Instruct, and Alpaca -- on a set of 13 real-world clinical and biomedical natural language processing (NLP) tasks in English, such as named-entity recognition (NER), question-answering (QA), relation extraction (RE), etc. Our overall results demonstrate that the evaluated LLMs begin to approach performance of state-of-the-art models in zero- and few-shot scenarios for most tasks, and particularly well for the QA task, even though they have never seen examples from these tasks before. However, we observed that the classification and RE tasks perform below what can be achieved with a specifically trained model for the medical field, such as PubMedBERT. Finally, we noted that no LLM outperforms all the others on all the studied tasks, with some models being better suited for certain tasks than others. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Synthesis of Batik Motifs using a Diffusion -- Generative Adversarial  Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12122  
**Abstract:** Batik, a unique blend of art and craftsmanship, is a distinct artistic and technological creation for Indonesian society. Research on batik motifs is primarily focused on classification. However, further studies may extend to the synthesis of batik patterns. Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have been an important deep learning model for generating synthetic data, but often face challenges in the stability and consistency of results. This research focuses on the use of StyleGAN2-Ada and Diffusion techniques to produce realistic and high-quality synthetic batik patterns. StyleGAN2-Ada is a variation of the GAN model that separates the style and content aspects in an image, whereas diffusion techniques introduce random noise into the data. In the context of batik, StyleGAN2-Ada and Diffusion are used to produce realistic synthetic batik patterns. This study also made adjustments to the model architecture and used a well-curated batik dataset. The main goal is to assist batik designers or craftsmen in producing unique and quality batik motifs with efficient production time and costs. Based on qualitative and quantitative evaluations, the results show that the model tested is capable of producing authentic and quality batik patterns, with finer details and rich artistic variations. The dataset and code can be accessed here:https://github.com/octadion/diffusion-stylegan2-ada-pytorch 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** CorrFL: Correlation-Based Neural Network Architecture for Unavailability  Concerns in a Heterogeneous IoT Environment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12149  
**Abstract:** The Federated Learning (FL) paradigm faces several challenges that limit its application in real-world environments. These challenges include the local models' architecture heterogeneity and the unavailability of distributed Internet of Things (IoT) nodes due to connectivity problems. These factors posit the question of "how can the available models fill the training gap of the unavailable models?". This question is referred to as the "Oblique Federated Learning" problem. This problem is encountered in the studied environment that includes distributed IoT nodes responsible for predicting CO2 concentrations. This paper proposes the Correlation-based FL (CorrFL) approach influenced by the representational learning field to address this problem. CorrFL projects the various model weights to a common latent space to address the model heterogeneity. Its loss function minimizes the reconstruction loss when models are absent and maximizes the correlation between the generated models. The latter factor is critical because of the intersection of the feature spaces of the IoT devices. CorrFL is evaluated on a realistic use case, involving the unavailability of one IoT device and heightened activity levels that reflect occupancy. The generated CorrFL models for the unavailable IoT device from the available ones trained on the new environment are compared against models trained on different use cases, referred to as the benchmark model. The evaluation criteria combine the mean absolute error (MAE) of predictions and the impact of the amount of exchanged data on the prediction performance improvement. Through a comprehensive experimental procedure, the CorrFL model outperformed the benchmark model in every criterion. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Identifying Misinformation on YouTube through Transcript Contextual  Analysis with Transformer Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12155  
**Abstract:** Misinformation on YouTube is a significant concern, necessitating robust detection strategies. In this paper, we introduce a novel methodology for video classification, focusing on the veracity of the content. We convert the conventional video classification task into a text classification task by leveraging the textual content derived from the video transcripts. We employ advanced machine learning techniques like transfer learning to solve the classification challenge. Our approach incorporates two forms of transfer learning: (a) fine-tuning base transformer models such as BERT, RoBERTa, and ELECTRA, and (b) few-shot learning using sentence-transformers MPNet and RoBERTa-large. We apply the trained models to three datasets: (a) YouTube Vaccine-misinformation related videos, (b) YouTube Pseudoscience videos, and (c) Fake-News dataset (a collection of articles). Including the Fake-News dataset extended the evaluation of our approach beyond YouTube videos. Using these datasets, we evaluated the models distinguishing valid information from misinformation. The fine-tuned models yielded Matthews Correlation Coefficient>0.81, accuracy>0.90, and F1 score>0.90 in two of three datasets. Interestingly, the few-shot models outperformed the fine-tuned ones by 20% in both Accuracy and F1 score for the YouTube Pseudoscience dataset, highlighting the potential utility of this approach -- especially in the context of limited training data. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** The Imitation Game: Detecting Human and AI-Generated Texts in the Era of  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12166  
**Abstract:** The potential of artificial intelligence (AI)-based large language models (LLMs) holds considerable promise in revolutionizing education, research, and practice. However, distinguishing between human-written and AI-generated text has become a significant task. This paper presents a comparative study, introducing a novel dataset of human-written and LLM-generated texts in different genres: essays, stories, poetry, and Python code. We employ several machine learning models to classify the texts. Results demonstrate the efficacy of these models in discerning between human and AI-generated text, despite the dataset's limited sample size. However, the task becomes more challenging when classifying GPT-generated text, particularly in story writing. The results indicate that the models exhibit superior performance in binary classification tasks, such as distinguishing human-generated text from a specific LLM, compared to the more complex multiclass tasks that involve discerning among human-generated and multiple LLMs. Our findings provide insightful implications for AI text detection while our dataset paves the way for future research in this evolving area. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Security and Privacy Issues of Federated Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12181  
**Abstract:** Federated Learning (FL) has emerged as a promising approach to address data privacy and confidentiality concerns by allowing multiple participants to construct a shared model without centralizing sensitive data. However, this decentralized paradigm introduces new security challenges, necessitating a comprehensive identification and classification of potential risks to ensure FL's security guarantees. This paper presents a comprehensive taxonomy of security and privacy challenges in Federated Learning (FL) across various machine learning models, including large language models. We specifically categorize attacks performed by the aggregator and participants, focusing on poisoning attacks, backdoor attacks, membership inference attacks, generative adversarial network (GAN) based attacks, and differential privacy attacks. Additionally, we propose new directions for future research, seeking innovative solutions to fortify FL systems against emerging security risks and uphold sensitive data confidentiality in distributed learning environments. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Improving Out-of-Distribution Robustness of Classifiers via Generative  Interpolation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12219  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks achieve superior performance for learning from independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) data. However, their performance deteriorates significantly when handling out-of-distribution (OoD) data, where the training and test are drawn from different distributions. In this paper, we explore utilizing the generative models as a data augmentation source for improving out-of-distribution robustness of neural classifiers. Specifically, we develop a simple yet effective method called Generative Interpolation to fuse generative models trained from multiple domains for synthesizing diverse OoD samples. Training a generative model directly on the source domains tends to suffer from mode collapse and sometimes amplifies the data bias. Instead, we first train a StyleGAN model on one source domain and then fine-tune it on the other domains, resulting in many correlated generators where their model parameters have the same initialization thus are aligned. We then linearly interpolate the model parameters of the generators to spawn new sets of generators. Such interpolated generators are used as an extra data augmentation source to train the classifiers. The interpolation coefficients can flexibly control the augmentation direction and strength. In addition, a style-mixing mechanism is applied to further improve the diversity of the generated OoD samples. Our experiments show that the proposed method explicitly increases the diversity of training domains and achieves consistent improvements over baselines across datasets and multiple different distribution shifts. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Geometry-Aware Adaptation for Pretrained Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12226  
**Abstract:** Machine learning models -- including prominent zero-shot models -- are often trained on datasets whose labels are only a small proportion of a larger label space. Such spaces are commonly equipped with a metric that relates the labels via distances between them. We propose a simple approach to exploit this information to adapt the trained model to reliably predict new classes -- or, in the case of zero-shot prediction, to improve its performance -- without any additional training. Our technique is a drop-in replacement of the standard prediction rule, swapping argmax with the Fr\'echet mean. We provide a comprehensive theoretical analysis for this approach, studying (i) learning-theoretic results trading off label space diameter, sample complexity, and model dimension, (ii) characterizations of the full range of scenarios in which it is possible to predict any unobserved class, and (iii) an optimal active learning-like next class selection procedure to obtain optimal training classes for when it is not possible to predict the entire range of unobserved classes. Empirically, using easily-available external metrics, our proposed approach, Loki, gains up to 29.7% relative improvement over SimCLR on ImageNet and scales to hundreds of thousands of classes. When no such metric is available, Loki can use self-derived metrics from class embeddings and obtains a 10.5% improvement on pretrained zero-shot models such as CLIP. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** EchoGLAD: Hierarchical Graph Neural Networks for Left Ventricle Landmark  Detection on Echocardiograms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12229  
**Abstract:** The functional assessment of the left ventricle chamber of the heart requires detecting four landmark locations and measuring the internal dimension of the left ventricle and the approximate mass of the surrounding muscle. The key challenge of automating this task with machine learning is the sparsity of clinical labels, i.e., only a few landmark pixels in a high-dimensional image are annotated, leading many prior works to heavily rely on isotropic label smoothing. However, such a label smoothing strategy ignores the anatomical information of the image and induces some bias. To address this challenge, we introduce an echocardiogram-based, hierarchical graph neural network (GNN) for left ventricle landmark detection (EchoGLAD). Our main contributions are: 1) a hierarchical graph representation learning framework for multi-resolution landmark detection via GNNs; 2) induced hierarchical supervision at different levels of granularity using a multi-level loss. We evaluate our model on a public and a private dataset under the in-distribution (ID) and out-of-distribution (OOD) settings. For the ID setting, we achieve the state-of-the-art mean absolute errors (MAEs) of 1.46 mm and 1.86 mm on the two datasets. Our model also shows better OOD generalization than prior works with a testing MAE of 4.3 mm. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** DQ-Det: Learning Dynamic Query Combinations for Transformer-based Object  Detection and Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12239  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based detection and segmentation methods use a list of learned detection queries to retrieve information from the transformer network and learn to predict the location and category of one specific object from each query. We empirically find that random convex combinations of the learned queries are still good for the corresponding models. We then propose to learn a convex combination with dynamic coefficients based on the high-level semantics of the image. The generated dynamic queries, named modulated queries, better capture the prior of object locations and categories in the different images. Equipped with our modulated queries, a wide range of DETR-based models achieve consistent and superior performance across multiple tasks including object detection, instance segmentation, panoptic segmentation, and video instance segmentation. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Semantic Communication-Empowered Traffic Management using Vehicle Count  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12254  
**Abstract:** Vehicle count prediction is an important aspect of smart city traffic management. Most major roads are monitored by cameras with computing and transmitting capabilities. These cameras provide data to the central traffic controller (CTC), which is in charge of traffic control management. In this paper, we propose a joint CNN-LSTM-based semantic communication (SemCom) model in which the semantic encoder of a camera extracts the relevant semantics from raw images. The encoded semantics are then sent to the CTC by the transmitter in the form of symbols. The semantic decoder of the CTC predicts the vehicle count on each road based on the sequence of received symbols and develops a traffic management strategy accordingly. An optimization problem to improve the quality of experience (QoE) is introduced and numerically solved, taking into account constraints such as vehicle user safety, transmit power of camera devices, vehicle count prediction accuracy, and semantic entropy. Using numerical results, we show that the proposed SemCom model reduces overhead by $54.42\%$ when compared to source encoder/decoder methods. Also, we demonstrate through simulations that the proposed model outperforms state-of-the-art models in terms of mean absolute error (MAE) and QoE. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Transformer-based Joint Source Channel Coding for Textual Semantic  Communication  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12266  
**Abstract:** The Space-Air-Ground-Sea integrated network calls for more robust and secure transmission techniques against jamming. In this paper, we propose a textual semantic transmission framework for robust transmission, which utilizes the advanced natural language processing techniques to model and encode sentences. Specifically, the textual sentences are firstly split into tokens using wordpiece algorithm, and are embedded to token vectors for semantic extraction by Transformer-based encoder. The encoded data are quantized to a fixed length binary sequence for transmission, where binary erasure, symmetric, and deletion channels are considered for transmission. The received binary sequences are further decoded by the transformer decoders into tokens used for sentence reconstruction. Our proposed approach leverages the power of neural networks and attention mechanism to provide reliable and efficient communication of textual data in challenging wireless environments, and simulation results on semantic similarity and bilingual evaluation understudy prove the superiority of the proposed model in semantic transmission. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Towards Automatic Boundary Detection for Human-AI Hybrid Essay in  Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12267  
**Abstract:** Human-AI collaborative writing has been greatly facilitated with the help of modern large language models (LLM), e.g., ChatGPT. While admitting the convenience brought by technology advancement, educators also have concerns that students might leverage LLM to partially complete their writing assignment and pass off the human-AI hybrid text as their original work. Driven by such concerns, in this study, we investigated the automatic detection of Human-AI hybrid text in education, where we formalized the hybrid text detection as a boundary detection problem, i.e., identifying the transition points between human-written content and AI-generated content. We constructed a hybrid essay dataset by partially removing sentences from the original student-written essays and then instructing ChatGPT to fill in for the incomplete essays. Then we proposed a two-step detection approach where we (1) Separated AI-generated content from human-written content during the embedding learning process; and (2) Calculated the distances between every two adjacent prototypes (a prototype is the mean of a set of consecutive sentences from the hybrid text in the embedding space) and assumed that the boundaries exist between the two prototypes that have the furthest distance from each other. Through extensive experiments, we summarized the following main findings: (1) The proposed approach consistently outperformed the baseline methods across different experiment settings; (2) The embedding learning process (i.e., step 1) can significantly boost the performance of the proposed approach; (3) When detecting boundaries for single-boundary hybrid essays, the performance of the proposed approach could be enhanced by adopting a relatively large prototype size, leading to a $22$\% improvement (against the second-best baseline method) in the in-domain setting and an $18$\% improvement in the out-of-domain setting. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** TransHuman: A Transformer-based Human Representation for Generalizable  Neural Human Rendering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12291  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we focus on the task of generalizable neural human rendering which trains conditional Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) from multi-view videos of different characters. To handle the dynamic human motion, previous methods have primarily used a SparseConvNet (SPC)-based human representation to process the painted SMPL. However, such SPC-based representation i) optimizes under the volatile observation space which leads to the pose-misalignment between training and inference stages, and ii) lacks the global relationships among human parts that is critical for handling the incomplete painted SMPL. Tackling these issues, we present a brand-new framework named TransHuman, which learns the painted SMPL under the canonical space and captures the global relationships between human parts with transformers. Specifically, TransHuman is mainly composed of Transformer-based Human Encoding (TransHE), Deformable Partial Radiance Fields (DPaRF), and Fine-grained Detail Integration (FDI). TransHE first processes the painted SMPL under the canonical space via transformers for capturing the global relationships between human parts. Then, DPaRF binds each output token with a deformable radiance field for encoding the query point under the observation space. Finally, the FDI is employed to further integrate fine-grained information from reference images. Extensive experiments on ZJU-MoCap and H36M show that our TransHuman achieves a significantly new state-of-the-art performance with high efficiency. Project page: https://pansanity666.github.io/TransHuman/ 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** X-CapsNet For Fake News Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12332  
**Abstract:** News consumption has significantly increased with the growing popularity and use of web-based forums and social media. This sets the stage for misinforming and confusing people. To help reduce the impact of misinformation on users' potential health-related decisions and other intents, it is desired to have machine learning models to detect and combat fake news automatically. This paper proposes a novel transformer-based model using Capsule neural Networks(CapsNet) called X-CapsNet. This model includes a CapsNet with dynamic routing algorithm paralyzed with a size-based classifier for detecting short and long fake news statements. We use two size-based classifiers, a Deep Convolutional Neural Network (DCNN) for detecting long fake news statements and a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) for detecting short news statements. To resolve the problem of representing short news statements, we use indirect features of news created by concatenating the vector of news speaker profiles and a vector of polarity, sentiment, and counting words of news statements. For evaluating the proposed architecture, we use the Covid-19 and the Liar datasets. The results in terms of the F1-score for the Covid-19 dataset and accuracy for the Liar dataset show that models perform better than the state-of-the-art baselines. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** An axiomatized PDE model of deep neural networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12333  
**Abstract:** Inspired by the relation between deep neural network (DNN) and partial differential equations (PDEs), we study the general form of the PDE models of deep neural networks. To achieve this goal, we formulate DNN as an evolution operator from a simple base model. Based on several reasonable assumptions, we prove that the evolution operator is actually determined by convection-diffusion equation. This convection-diffusion equation model gives mathematical explanation for several effective networks. Moreover, we show that the convection-diffusion model improves the robustness and reduces the Rademacher complexity. Based on the convection-diffusion equation, we design a new training method for ResNets. Experiments validate the performance of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Learning Navigational Visual Representations with Semantic Map  Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12335  
**Abstract:** Being able to perceive the semantics and the spatial structure of the environment is essential for visual navigation of a household robot. However, most existing works only employ visual backbones pre-trained either with independent images for classification or with self-supervised learning methods to adapt to the indoor navigation domain, neglecting the spatial relationships that are essential to the learning of navigation. Inspired by the behavior that humans naturally build semantically and spatially meaningful cognitive maps in their brains during navigation, in this paper, we propose a novel navigational-specific visual representation learning method by contrasting the agent's egocentric views and semantic maps (Ego$^2$-Map). We apply the visual transformer as the backbone encoder and train the model with data collected from the large-scale Habitat-Matterport3D environments. Ego$^2$-Map learning transfers the compact and rich information from a map, such as objects, structure and transition, to the agent's egocentric representations for navigation. Experiments show that agents using our learned representations on object-goal navigation outperform recent visual pre-training methods. Moreover, our representations significantly improve vision-and-language navigation in continuous environments for both high-level and low-level action spaces, achieving new state-of-the-art results of 47% SR and 41% SPL on the test server. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** TabADM: Unsupervised Tabular Anomaly Detection with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12336  
**Abstract:** Tables are an abundant form of data with use cases across all scientific fields. Real-world datasets often contain anomalous samples that can negatively affect downstream analysis. In this work, we only assume access to contaminated data and present a diffusion-based probabilistic model effective for unsupervised anomaly detection. Our model is trained to learn the density of normal samples by utilizing a unique rejection scheme to attenuate the influence of anomalies on the density estimation. At inference, we identify anomalies as samples in low-density regions. We use real data to demonstrate that our method improves detection capabilities over baselines. Furthermore, our method is relatively stable to the dimension of the data and does not require extensive hyperparameter tuning. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** ResShift: Efficient Diffusion Model for Image Super-resolution by  Residual Shifting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12348  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based image super-resolution (SR) methods are mainly limited by the low inference speed due to the requirements of hundreds or even thousands of sampling steps. Existing acceleration sampling techniques inevitably sacrifice performance to some extent, leading to over-blurry SR results. To address this issue, we propose a novel and efficient diffusion model for SR that significantly reduces the number of diffusion steps, thereby eliminating the need for post-acceleration during inference and its associated performance deterioration. Our method constructs a Markov chain that transfers between the high-resolution image and the low-resolution image by shifting the residual between them, substantially improving the transition efficiency. Additionally, an elaborate noise schedule is developed to flexibly control the shifting speed and the noise strength during the diffusion process. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed method obtains superior or at least comparable performance to current state-of-the-art methods on both synthetic and real-world datasets, even only with 15 sampling steps. Our code and model are available at https://github.com/zsyOAOA/ResShift. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** ComPtr: Towards Diverse Bi-source Dense Prediction Tasks via A Simple  yet General Complementary Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12349  
**Abstract:** Deep learning (DL) has advanced the field of dense prediction, while gradually dissolving the inherent barriers between different tasks. However, most existing works focus on designing architectures and constructing visual cues only for the specific task, which ignores the potential uniformity introduced by the DL paradigm. In this paper, we attempt to construct a novel \underline{ComP}lementary \underline{tr}ansformer, \textbf{ComPtr}, for diverse bi-source dense prediction tasks. Specifically, unlike existing methods that over-specialize in a single task or a subset of tasks, ComPtr starts from the more general concept of bi-source dense prediction. Based on the basic dependence on information complementarity, we propose consistency enhancement and difference awareness components with which ComPtr can evacuate and collect important visual semantic cues from different image sources for diverse tasks, respectively. ComPtr treats different inputs equally and builds an efficient dense interaction model in the form of sequence-to-sequence on top of the transformer. This task-generic design provides a smooth foundation for constructing the unified model that can simultaneously deal with various bi-source information. In extensive experiments across several representative vision tasks, i.e. remote sensing change detection, RGB-T crowd counting, RGB-D/T salient object detection, and RGB-D semantic segmentation, the proposed method consistently obtains favorable performance. The code will be available at \url{https://github.com/lartpang/ComPtr}. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Iterative Robust Visual Grounding with Masked Reference based  Centerpoint Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12392  
**Abstract:** Visual Grounding (VG) aims at localizing target objects from an image based on given expressions and has made significant progress with the development of detection and vision transformer. However, existing VG methods tend to generate false-alarm objects when presented with inaccurate or irrelevant descriptions, which commonly occur in practical applications. Moreover, existing methods fail to capture fine-grained features, accurate localization, and sufficient context comprehension from the whole image and textual descriptions. To address both issues, we propose an Iterative Robust Visual Grounding (IR-VG) framework with Masked Reference based Centerpoint Supervision (MRCS). The framework introduces iterative multi-level vision-language fusion (IMVF) for better alignment. We use MRCS to ahieve more accurate localization with point-wised feature supervision. Then, to improve the robustness of VG, we also present a multi-stage false-alarm sensitive decoder (MFSD) to prevent the generation of false-alarm objects when presented with inaccurate expressions. The proposed framework is evaluated on five regular VG datasets and two newly constructed robust VG datasets. Extensive experiments demonstrate that IR-VG achieves new state-of-the-art (SOTA) results, with improvements of 25\% and 10\% compared to existing SOTA approaches on the two newly proposed robust VG datasets. Moreover, the proposed framework is also verified effective on five regular VG datasets. Codes and models will be publicly at https://github.com/cv516Buaa/IR-VG. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** ChatGPT and Bard Responses to Polarizing Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12402  
**Abstract:** Recent developments in natural language processing have demonstrated the potential of large language models (LLMs) to improve a range of educational and learning outcomes. Of recent chatbots based on LLMs, ChatGPT and Bard have made it clear that artificial intelligence (AI) technology will have significant implications on the way we obtain and search for information. However, these tools sometimes produce text that is convincing, but often incorrect, known as hallucinations. As such, their use can distort scientific facts and spread misinformation. To counter polarizing responses on these tools, it is critical to provide an overview of such responses so stakeholders can determine which topics tend to produce more contentious responses -- key to developing targeted regulatory policy and interventions. In addition, there currently exists no annotated dataset of ChatGPT and Bard responses around possibly polarizing topics, central to the above aims. We address the indicated issues through the following contribution: Focusing on highly polarizing topics in the US, we created and described a dataset of ChatGPT and Bard responses. Broadly, our results indicated a left-leaning bias for both ChatGPT and Bard, with Bard more likely to provide responses around polarizing topics. Bard seemed to have fewer guardrails around controversial topics, and appeared more willing to provide comprehensive, and somewhat human-like responses. Bard may thus be more likely abused by malicious actors. Stakeholders may utilize our findings to mitigate misinformative and/or polarizing responses from LLMs 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** SCRAPS: Speech Contrastive Representations of Acoustic and Phonetic  Spaces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12445  
**Abstract:** Numerous examples in the literature proved that deep learning models have the ability to work well with multimodal data. Recently, CLIP has enabled deep learning systems to learn shared latent spaces between images and text descriptions, with outstanding zero- or few-shot results in downstream tasks. In this paper we explore the same idea proposed by CLIP but applied to the speech domain, where the phonetic and acoustic spaces usually coexist. We train a CLIP-based model with the aim to learn shared representations of phonetic and acoustic spaces. The results show that the proposed model is sensible to phonetic changes, with a 91% of score drops when replacing 20% of the phonemes at random, while providing substantial robustness against different kinds of noise, with a 10% performance drop when mixing the audio with 75% of Gaussian noise. We also provide empirical evidence showing that the resulting embeddings are useful for a variety of downstream applications, such as intelligibility evaluation and the ability to leverage rich pre-trained phonetic embeddings in speech generation task. Finally, we discuss potential applications with interesting implications for the speech generation and recognition fields. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Robust face anti-spoofing framework with Convolutional Vision  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12459  
**Abstract:** Owing to the advances in image processing technology and large-scale datasets, companies have implemented facial authentication processes, thereby stimulating increased focus on face anti-spoofing (FAS) against realistic presentation attacks. Recently, various attempts have been made to improve face recognition performance using both global and local learning on face images; however, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate whether the robustness of FAS against domain shifts is improved by considering global information and local cues in face images captured using self-attention and convolutional layers. This study proposes a convolutional vision transformer-based framework that achieves robust performance for various unseen domain data. Our model resulted in 7.3%$p$ and 12.9%$p$ increases in FAS performance compared to models using only a convolutional neural network or vision transformer, respectively. It also shows the highest average rank in sub-protocols of cross-dataset setting over the other nine benchmark models for domain generalization. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** ChatGPT for Software Security: Exploring the Strengths and Limitations  of ChatGPT in the Security Applications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12488  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT, as a versatile large language model, has demonstrated remarkable potential in addressing inquiries across various domains. Its ability to analyze, comprehend, and synthesize information from both online sources and user inputs has garnered significant attention. Previous research has explored ChatGPT's competence in code generation and code reviews. In this paper, we delve into ChatGPT's capabilities in security-oriented program analysis, focusing on perspectives from both attackers and security analysts. We present a case study involving several security-oriented program analysis tasks while deliberately introducing challenges to assess ChatGPT's responses. Through an examination of the quality of answers provided by ChatGPT, we gain a clearer understanding of its strengths and limitations in the realm of security-oriented program analysis. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** TF-ICON: Diffusion-Based Training-Free Cross-Domain Image Composition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12493  
**Abstract:** Text-driven diffusion models have exhibited impressive generative capabilities, enabling various image editing tasks. In this paper, we propose TF-ICON, a novel Training-Free Image COmpositioN framework that harnesses the power of text-driven diffusion models for cross-domain image-guided composition. This task aims to seamlessly integrate user-provided objects into a specific visual context. Current diffusion-based methods often involve costly instance-based optimization or finetuning of pretrained models on customized datasets, which can potentially undermine their rich prior. In contrast, TF-ICON can leverage off-the-shelf diffusion models to perform cross-domain image-guided composition without requiring additional training, finetuning, or optimization. Moreover, we introduce the exceptional prompt, which contains no information, to facilitate text-driven diffusion models in accurately inverting real images into latent representations, forming the basis for compositing. Our experiments show that equipping Stable Diffusion with the exceptional prompt outperforms state-of-the-art inversion methods on various datasets (CelebA-HQ, COCO, and ImageNet), and that TF-ICON surpasses prior baselines in versatile visual domains. Code is available at https://github.com/Shilin-LU/TF-ICON 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** AdvDiff: Generating Unrestricted Adversarial Examples using Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12499  
**Abstract:** Unrestricted adversarial attacks present a serious threat to deep learning models and adversarial defense techniques. They pose severe security problems for deep learning applications because they can effectively bypass defense mechanisms. However, previous attack methods often utilize Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), which are not theoretically provable and thus generate unrealistic examples by incorporating adversarial objectives, especially for large-scale datasets like ImageNet. In this paper, we propose a new method, called AdvDiff, to generate unrestricted adversarial examples with diffusion models. We design two novel adversarial guidance techniques to conduct adversarial sampling in the reverse generation process of diffusion models. These two techniques are effective and stable to generate high-quality, realistic adversarial examples by integrating gradients of the target classifier interpretably. Experimental results on MNIST and ImageNet datasets demonstrate that AdvDiff is effective to generate unrestricted adversarial examples, which outperforms GAN-based methods in terms of attack performance and generation quality. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Investigating the Existence of "Secret Language'' in Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12507  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we study the problem of secret language in NLP, where current language models (LMs) seem to have a hidden vocabulary that allows them to interpret absurd inputs as meaningful concepts. We investigate two research questions: ``Does the secret language phenomenon exist in different language models?'' and ``Does secret language depend on specific context?'' To answer these questions, we introduce a novel method named \textit{SecretFinding}, a gradient-based approach that can automatically discover secret languages in LMs. We conduct experiments on five representative models (Electra, ALBERT, Roberta, DistillBERT, and CLIP) finetuned on four NLP benchmarks (SST-2, MRPC, SNLI, and SQuAD) and a language-grounding benchmark (MSCOCO). Our experimental results show that even when we replace the most important words with others that are semantically dissimilar to the original words in a sentence, LMs do not consider the new sentence semantically dissimilar to the original, as the output does not change with a high probability. This phenomenon holds true across the five models and five tasks and gives a positive answer to the first research question. As for the second research question, we find that the secret language discovered by \textit{SecretFinding} is quite general and could even be transferred to other models in the black-box settings, such as GPT-3 and ChatGPT. Finally, we discuss the causes of secret language, how to eliminate it, the potential connection to memorization, and ethical implications. Examples of secret language found by SecretFinding are available on https://huggingface.co/spaces/anonymousauthors/ACL23_SecretLanguage. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Entropy Transformer Networks: A Learning Approach via Tangent Bundle  Data Manifold  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12517  
**Abstract:** This paper focuses on an accurate and fast interpolation approach for image transformation employed in the design of CNN architectures. Standard Spatial Transformer Networks (STNs) use bilinear or linear interpolation as their interpolation, with unrealistic assumptions about the underlying data distributions, which leads to poor performance under scale variations. Moreover, STNs do not preserve the norm of gradients in propagation due to their dependency on sparse neighboring pixels. To address this problem, a novel Entropy STN (ESTN) is proposed that interpolates on the data manifold distributions. In particular, random samples are generated for each pixel in association with the tangent space of the data manifold and construct a linear approximation of their intensity values with an entropy regularizer to compute the transformer parameters. A simple yet effective technique is also proposed to normalize the non-zero values of the convolution operation, to fine-tune the layers for gradients' norm-regularization during training. Experiments on challenging benchmarks show that the proposed ESTN can improve predictive accuracy over a range of computer vision tasks, including image reconstruction, and classification, while reducing the computational cost. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Rethinking Medical Report Generation: Disease Revealing Enhancement with  Knowledge Graph  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12526  
**Abstract:** Knowledge Graph (KG) plays a crucial role in Medical Report Generation (MRG) because it reveals the relations among diseases and thus can be utilized to guide the generation process. However, constructing a comprehensive KG is labor-intensive and its applications on the MRG process are under-explored. In this study, we establish a complete KG on chest X-ray imaging that includes 137 types of diseases and abnormalities. Based on this KG, we find that the current MRG data sets exhibit a long-tailed problem in disease distribution. To mitigate this problem, we introduce a novel augmentation strategy that enhances the representation of disease types in the tail-end of the distribution. We further design a two-stage MRG approach, where a classifier is first trained to detect whether the input images exhibit any abnormalities. The classified images are then independently fed into two transformer-based generators, namely, ``disease-specific generator" and ``disease-free generator" to generate the corresponding reports. To enhance the clinical evaluation of whether the generated reports correctly describe the diseases appearing in the input image, we propose diverse sensitivity (DS), a new metric that checks whether generated diseases match ground truth and measures the diversity of all generated diseases. Results show that the proposed two-stage generation framework and augmentation strategies improve DS by a considerable margin, indicating a notable reduction in the long-tailed problem associated with under-represented diseases. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** PUMA: Secure Inference of LLaMA-7B in Five Minutes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12533  
**Abstract:** With ChatGPT as a representative, tons of companies have began to provide services based on large Transformers models. However, using such a service inevitably leak users' prompts to the model provider. Previous studies have studied secure inference for Transformer models using secure multiparty computation (MPC), where model parameters and clients' prompts are kept secret. Despite this, these frameworks are still limited in terms of model performance, efficiency, and deployment. To address these limitations, we propose framework PUMA to enable fast and secure Transformer model inference. Our framework designs high quality approximations for expensive functions, such as GeLU and Softmax, which significantly reduce the cost of secure inference while preserving the model performance. Additionally, we design secure Embedding and LayerNorm procedures that faithfully implement the desired functionality without undermining the Transformer architecture. PUMA is about 2x faster than the state-of-the-art MPC framework MPCFORMER(ICLR 2023) and has similar accuracy as plaintext models without fine-tuning (which the previous works failed to achieve). 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Interpolating between Images with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12560  
**Abstract:** One little-explored frontier of image generation and editing is the task of interpolating between two input images, a feature missing from all currently deployed image generation pipelines. We argue that such a feature can expand the creative applications of such models, and propose a method for zero-shot interpolation using latent diffusion models. We apply interpolation in the latent space at a sequence of decreasing noise levels, then perform denoising conditioned on interpolated text embeddings derived from textual inversion and (optionally) subject poses. For greater consistency, or to specify additional criteria, we can generate several candidates and use CLIP to select the highest quality image. We obtain convincing interpolations across diverse subject poses, image styles, and image content, and show that standard quantitative metrics such as FID are insufficient to measure the quality of an interpolation. Code and data are available at https://clintonjwang.github.io/interpolation. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** A Good Student is Cooperative and Reliable: CNN-Transformer  Collaborative Learning for Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12574  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we strive to answer the question "how to collaboratively learn convolutional neural network (CNN)-based and vision transformer (ViT)-based models by selecting and exchanging the reliable knowledge between them for semantic segmentation?" Accordingly, we propose an online knowledge distillation (KD) framework that can simultaneously learn compact yet effective CNN-based and ViT-based models with two key technical breakthroughs to take full advantage of CNNs and ViT while compensating their limitations. Firstly, we propose heterogeneous feature distillation (HFD) to improve students' consistency in low-layer feature space by mimicking heterogeneous features between CNNs and ViT. Secondly, to facilitate the two students to learn reliable knowledge from each other, we propose bidirectional selective distillation (BSD) that can dynamically transfer selective knowledge. This is achieved by 1) region-wise BSD determining the directions of knowledge transferred between the corresponding regions in the feature space and 2) pixel-wise BSD discerning which of the prediction knowledge to be transferred in the logit space. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate that our proposed framework outperforms the state-of-the-art online distillation methods by a large margin, and shows its efficacy in learning collaboratively between ViT-based and CNN-based models. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Refining ChatGPT-Generated Code: Characterizing and Mitigating Code  Quality Issues  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12596  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we systematically study the quality of 4,066 ChatGPT-generated code implemented in two popular programming languages, i.e., Java and Python, for 2,033 programming tasks. The goal of this work is three folds. First, we analyze the correctness of ChatGPT on code generation tasks and uncover the factors that influence its effectiveness, including task difficulty, programming language, time that tasks are introduced, and program size. Second, we identify and characterize potential issues with the quality of ChatGPT-generated code. Last, we provide insights into how these issues can be mitigated. Experiments highlight that out of 4,066 programs generated by ChatGPT, 2,757 programs are deemed correct, 1,081 programs provide wrong outputs, and 177 programs contain compilation or runtime errors. Additionally, we further analyze other characteristics of the generated code through static analysis tools, such as code style and maintainability, and find that 1,933 ChatGPT-generated code snippets suffer from maintainability issues. Subsequently, we investigate ChatGPT's self-debugging ability and its interaction with static analysis tools to fix the errors uncovered in the previous step. Experiments suggest that ChatGPT can partially address these challenges, improving code quality by more than 20%, but there are still limitations and opportunities for improvement. Overall, our study provides valuable insights into the current limitations of ChatGPT and offers a roadmap for future research and development efforts to enhance the code generation capabilities of AI models like ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Predicting Ordinary Differential Equations with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12617  
**Abstract:** We develop a transformer-based sequence-to-sequence model that recovers scalar ordinary differential equations (ODEs) in symbolic form from irregularly sampled and noisy observations of a single solution trajectory. We demonstrate in extensive empirical evaluations that our model performs better or on par with existing methods in terms of accurate recovery across various settings. Moreover, our method is efficiently scalable: after one-time pretraining on a large set of ODEs, we can infer the governing law of a new observed solution in a few forward passes of the model. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** TransFusion: Generating Long, High Fidelity Time Series using Diffusion  Models with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12667  
**Abstract:** The generation of high-quality, long-sequenced time-series data is essential due to its wide range of applications. In the past, standalone Recurrent and Convolutional Neural Network-based Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) were used to synthesize time-series data. However, they are inadequate for generating long sequences of time-series data due to limitations in the architecture. Furthermore, GANs are well known for their training instability and mode collapse problem. To address this, we propose TransFusion, a diffusion, and transformers-based generative model to generate high-quality long-sequence time-series data. We have stretched the sequence length to 384, and generated high-quality synthetic data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that has been done with this long-sequence length. Also, we introduce two evaluation metrics to evaluate the quality of the synthetic data as well as its predictive characteristics. We evaluate TransFusion with a wide variety of visual and empirical metrics, and TransFusion outperforms the previous state-of-the-art by a significant margin. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Dense Transformer based Enhanced Coding Network for Unsupervised Metal  Artifact Reduction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12717  
**Abstract:** CT images corrupted by metal artifacts have serious negative effects on clinical diagnosis. Considering the difficulty of collecting paired data with ground truth in clinical settings, unsupervised methods for metal artifact reduction are of high interest. However, it is difficult for previous unsupervised methods to retain structural information from CT images while handling the non-local characteristics of metal artifacts. To address these challenges, we proposed a novel Dense Transformer based Enhanced Coding Network (DTEC-Net) for unsupervised metal artifact reduction. Specifically, we introduce a Hierarchical Disentangling Encoder, supported by the high-order dense process, and transformer to obtain densely encoded sequences with long-range correspondence. Then, we present a second-order disentanglement method to improve the dense sequence's decoding process. Extensive experiments and model discussions illustrate DTEC-Net's effectiveness, which outperforms the previous state-of-the-art methods on a benchmark dataset, and greatly reduces metal artifacts while restoring richer texture details. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** CarPatch: A Synthetic Benchmark for Radiance Field Evaluation on Vehicle  Components  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12718  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have gained widespread recognition as a highly effective technique for representing 3D reconstructions of objects and scenes derived from sets of images. Despite their efficiency, NeRF models can pose challenges in certain scenarios such as vehicle inspection, where the lack of sufficient data or the presence of challenging elements (e.g. reflections) strongly impact the accuracy of the reconstruction. To this aim, we introduce CarPatch, a novel synthetic benchmark of vehicles. In addition to a set of images annotated with their intrinsic and extrinsic camera parameters, the corresponding depth maps and semantic segmentation masks have been generated for each view. Global and part-based metrics have been defined and used to evaluate, compare, and better characterize some state-of-the-art techniques. The dataset is publicly released at https://aimagelab.ing.unimore.it/go/carpatch and can be used as an evaluation guide and as a baseline for future work on this challenging topic. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** AMAE: Adaptation of Pre-Trained Masked Autoencoder for Dual-Distribution  Anomaly Detection in Chest X-Rays  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12721  
**Abstract:** Unsupervised anomaly detection in medical images such as chest radiographs is stepping into the spotlight as it mitigates the scarcity of the labor-intensive and costly expert annotation of anomaly data. However, nearly all existing methods are formulated as a one-class classification trained only on representations from the normal class and discard a potentially significant portion of the unlabeled data. This paper focuses on a more practical setting, dual distribution anomaly detection for chest X-rays, using the entire training data, including both normal and unlabeled images. Inspired by a modern self-supervised vision transformer model trained using partial image inputs to reconstruct missing image regions -- we propose AMAE, a two-stage algorithm for adaptation of the pre-trained masked autoencoder (MAE). Starting from MAE initialization, AMAE first creates synthetic anomalies from only normal training images and trains a lightweight classifier on frozen transformer features. Subsequently, we propose an adaptation strategy to leverage unlabeled images containing anomalies. The adaptation scheme is accomplished by assigning pseudo-labels to unlabeled images and using two separate MAE based modules to model the normative and anomalous distributions of pseudo-labeled images. The effectiveness of the proposed adaptation strategy is evaluated with different anomaly ratios in an unlabeled training set. AMAE leads to consistent performance gains over competing self-supervised and dual distribution anomaly detection methods, setting the new state-of-the-art on three public chest X-ray benchmarks: RSNA, NIH-CXR, and VinDr-CXR. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Exponential Rosenbrock methods without order reduction when integrating  nonlinear initial value problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12722  
**Abstract:** A technique is described in this paper to avoid order reduction when integrating reaction-diffusion initial boundary value problems with explicit exponential Rosenbrock methods. The technique is valid for any Rosenbrock method, without having to impose any stiff order conditions, and for general time-dependent boundary values. An analysis on the global error is thoroughly performed and some numerical experiments are shown which corroborate the theoretical results, and in which a big gain in efficiency with respect to applying the standard method of lines can be observed. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Adaptive Parameter Optimization For An Elliptic-Parabolic System Using  The Reduced-Basis Method With Hierarchical A-Posteriori Error Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12723  
**Abstract:** In this paper the authors study a non-linear elliptic-parabolic system, which is motivated by mathematical models for lithium-ion batteries. One state satisfies a parabolic reaction diffusion equation and the other one an elliptic equation. The goal is to determine several scalar parameters in the coupled model in an optimal manner by utilizing a reliable reduced-order approach based on the reduced basis (RB) method. However, the states are coupled through a strongly non-linear function, and this makes the evaluation of online-efficient error estimates difficult. First the well-posedness of the system is proved. Then a Galerkin finite element and RB discretization is described for the coupled system. To certify the RB scheme hierarchical a-posteriori error estimators are utilized in an adaptive trust-region optimization method. Numerical experiments illustrate good approximation properties and efficiencies by using only a relatively small number of reduced bases functions. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** COCO-O: A Benchmark for Object Detectors under Natural Distribution  Shifts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12730  
**Abstract:** Practical object detection application can lose its effectiveness on image inputs with natural distribution shifts. This problem leads the research community to pay more attention on the robustness of detectors under Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) inputs. Existing works construct datasets to benchmark the detector's OOD robustness for a specific application scenario, e.g., Autonomous Driving. However, these datasets lack universality and are hard to benchmark general detectors built on common tasks such as COCO. To give a more comprehensive robustness assessment, we introduce COCO-O(ut-of-distribution), a test dataset based on COCO with 6 types of natural distribution shifts. COCO-O has a large distribution gap with training data and results in a significant 55.7% relative performance drop on a Faster R-CNN detector. We leverage COCO-O to conduct experiments on more than 100 modern object detectors to investigate if their improvements are credible or just over-fitting to the COCO test set. Unfortunately, most classic detectors in early years do not exhibit strong OOD generalization. We further study the robustness effect on recent breakthroughs of detector's architecture design, augmentation and pre-training techniques. Some empirical findings are revealed: 1) Compared with detection head or neck, backbone is the most important part for robustness; 2) An end-to-end detection transformer design brings no enhancement, and may even reduce robustness; 3) Large-scale foundation models have made a great leap on robust object detection. We hope our COCO-O could provide a rich testbed for robustness study of object detection. The dataset will be available at \url{https://github.com/alibaba/easyrobust/tree/main/benchmarks/coco_o}. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** CLIP-KD: An Empirical Study of Distilling CLIP Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12732  
**Abstract:** CLIP has become a promising language-supervised visual pre-training framework and achieves excellent performance over a wide range of tasks. This paper aims to distill small CLIP models supervised by a large teacher CLIP model. We propose several distillation strategies, including relation, feature, gradient and contrastive paradigm, to examine the impact on CLIP distillation. We show that the simplest feature mimicry with MSE loss performs best. Moreover, interactive contrastive learning and relation-based distillation are also critical in performance improvement. We apply the unified method to distill several student networks trained on 15 million (image, text) pairs. Distillation improves the student CLIP models consistently over zero-shot ImageNet classification and cross-modal retrieval benchmarks. We hope our empirical study will become an important baseline for future CLIP distillation research. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/winycg/CLIP-KD}. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Concept-based explainability for an EEG transformer model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12745  
**Abstract:** Deep learning models are complex due to their size, structure, and inherent randomness in training procedures. Additional complexity arises from the selection of datasets and inductive biases. Addressing these challenges for explainability, Kim et al. (2018) introduced Concept Activation Vectors (CAVs), which aim to understand deep models' internal states in terms of human-aligned concepts. These concepts correspond to directions in latent space, identified using linear discriminants. Although this method was first applied to image classification, it was later adapted to other domains, including natural language processing. In this work, we attempt to apply the method to electroencephalogram (EEG) data for explainability in Kostas et al.'s BENDR (2021), a large-scale transformer model. A crucial part of this endeavor involves defining the explanatory concepts and selecting relevant datasets to ground concepts in the latent space. Our focus is on two mechanisms for EEG concept formation: the use of externally labeled EEG datasets, and the application of anatomically defined concepts. The former approach is a straightforward generalization of methods used in image classification, while the latter is novel and specific to EEG. We present evidence that both approaches to concept formation yield valuable insights into the representations learned by deep EEG models. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Is attention all you need in medical image analysis? A review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12775  
**Abstract:** Medical imaging is a key component in clinical diagnosis, treatment planning and clinical trial design, accounting for almost 90% of all healthcare data. CNNs achieved performance gains in medical image analysis (MIA) over the last years. CNNs can efficiently model local pixel interactions and be trained on small-scale MI data. The main disadvantage of typical CNN models is that they ignore global pixel relationships within images, which limits their generalisation ability to understand out-of-distribution data with different 'global' information. The recent progress of Artificial Intelligence gave rise to Transformers, which can learn global relationships from data. However, full Transformer models need to be trained on large-scale data and involve tremendous computational complexity. Attention and Transformer compartments (Transf/Attention) which can well maintain properties for modelling global relationships, have been proposed as lighter alternatives of full Transformers. Recently, there is an increasing trend to co-pollinate complementary local-global properties from CNN and Transf/Attention architectures, which led to a new era of hybrid models. The past years have witnessed substantial growth in hybrid CNN-Transf/Attention models across diverse MIA problems. In this systematic review, we survey existing hybrid CNN-Transf/Attention models, review and unravel key architectural designs, analyse breakthroughs, and evaluate current and future opportunities as well as challenges. We also introduced a comprehensive analysis framework on generalisation opportunities of scientific and clinical impact, based on which new data-driven domain generalisation and adaptation methods can be stimulated. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** A High Frequency Active Clamp Forward Converter with Coreless  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12804  
**Abstract:** In this paper, a highly compact, low power (<10W), high frequency (2 MHz) isolated active clamp forward converter, comprising a coreless Printed Circuit Board-based transformer is proposed. To decrease the size of converter, high switching frequency is considered which lead to decrease in inductor, capacitor and transformer size. Highly switch loss due to hard switching is an important constraint of forward topology to increase frequency. In this paper, the active clamp circuit is added to forward topology to achieve zero voltage switching and decrease switching loss drastically. Due to zero voltage switching, the proposed converter can operate in high frequency. The principle of active clamp forward converter is described in this paper. Another constraint to increase the switching frequency of forward converter is transformer core losses. In this paper, coreless PCB-based transformer is proposed and implemented to be utilized in the structure of the active clamp forward converter. Instead of classic core-based transformer, using a PCB-based transformer as the power transmitter has increased the efficiency due to elimination of core hysteresis loss. The equivalent circuit, transfer function and input impedance of PCB-based coreless transformer are presented in high frequency. Finally, an experimental prototype of the active clamp forward converter which uses a coreless transformer is implemented. The experimental results of proposed converter are presented to evaluate the theoretical analysis and performance. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Understanding the Latent Space of Diffusion Models through the Lens of  Riemannian Geometry  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12868  
**Abstract:** Despite the success of diffusion models (DMs), we still lack a thorough understanding of their latent space. To understand the latent space $\mathbf{x}_t \in \mathcal{X}$, we analyze them from a geometrical perspective. Specifically, we utilize the pullback metric to find the local latent basis in $\mathcal{X}$ and their corresponding local tangent basis in $\mathcal{H}$, the intermediate feature maps of DMs. The discovered latent basis enables unsupervised image editing capability through latent space traversal. We investigate the discovered structure from two perspectives. First, we examine how geometric structure evolves over diffusion timesteps. Through analysis, we show that 1) the model focuses on low-frequency components early in the generative process and attunes to high-frequency details later; 2) At early timesteps, different samples share similar tangent spaces; and 3) The simpler datasets that DMs trained on, the more consistent the tangent space for each timestep. Second, we investigate how the geometric structure changes based on text conditioning in Stable Diffusion. The results show that 1) similar prompts yield comparable tangent spaces; and 2) the model depends less on text conditions in later timesteps. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first to present image editing through $\mathbf{x}$-space traversal and provide thorough analyses of the latent structure of DMs. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Data-free Black-box Attack based on Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12872  
**Abstract:** Since the training data for the target model in a data-free black-box attack is not available, most recent schemes utilize GANs to generate data for training substitute model. However, these GANs-based schemes suffer from low training efficiency as the generator needs to be retrained for each target model during the substitute training process, as well as low generation quality. To overcome these limitations, we consider utilizing the diffusion model to generate data, and propose a data-free black-box attack scheme based on diffusion model to improve the efficiency and accuracy of substitute training. Despite the data generated by the diffusion model exhibits high quality, it presents diverse domain distributions and contains many samples that do not meet the discriminative criteria of the target model. To further facilitate the diffusion model to generate data suitable for the target model, we propose a Latent Code Augmentation (LCA) method to guide the diffusion model in generating data. With the guidance of LCA, the data generated by the diffusion model not only meets the discriminative criteria of the target model but also exhibits high diversity. By utilizing this data, it is possible to train substitute model that closely resemble the target model more efficiently. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our LCA achieves higher attack success rates and requires fewer query budgets compared to GANs-based schemes for different target models. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Dyn-E: Local Appearance Editing of Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12909  
**Abstract:** Recently, the editing of neural radiance fields (NeRFs) has gained considerable attention, but most prior works focus on static scenes while research on the appearance editing of dynamic scenes is relatively lacking. In this paper, we propose a novel framework to edit the local appearance of dynamic NeRFs by manipulating pixels in a single frame of training video. Specifically, to locally edit the appearance of dynamic NeRFs while preserving unedited regions, we introduce a local surface representation of the edited region, which can be inserted into and rendered along with the original NeRF and warped to arbitrary other frames through a learned invertible motion representation network. By employing our method, users without professional expertise can easily add desired content to the appearance of a dynamic scene. We extensively evaluate our approach on various scenes and show that our approach achieves spatially and temporally consistent editing results. Notably, our approach is versatile and applicable to different variants of dynamic NeRF representations. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Learning Dense Correspondences between Photos and Sketches  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12967  
**Abstract:** Humans effortlessly grasp the connection between sketches and real-world objects, even when these sketches are far from realistic. Moreover, human sketch understanding goes beyond categorization -- critically, it also entails understanding how individual elements within a sketch correspond to parts of the physical world it represents. What are the computational ingredients needed to support this ability? Towards answering this question, we make two contributions: first, we introduce a new sketch-photo correspondence benchmark, $\textit{PSC6k}$, containing 150K annotations of 6250 sketch-photo pairs across 125 object categories, augmenting the existing Sketchy dataset with fine-grained correspondence metadata. Second, we propose a self-supervised method for learning dense correspondences between sketch-photo pairs, building upon recent advances in correspondence learning for pairs of photos. Our model uses a spatial transformer network to estimate the warp flow between latent representations of a sketch and photo extracted by a contrastive learning-based ConvNet backbone. We found that this approach outperformed several strong baselines and produced predictions that were quantitatively consistent with other warp-based methods. However, our benchmark also revealed systematic differences between predictions of the suite of models we tested and those of humans. Taken together, our work suggests a promising path towards developing artificial systems that achieve more human-like understanding of visual images at different levels of abstraction. Project page: https://photo-sketch-correspondence.github.io 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** DFA3D: 3D Deformable Attention For 2D-to-3D Feature Lifting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12972  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a new operator, called 3D DeFormable Attention (DFA3D), for 2D-to-3D feature lifting, which transforms multi-view 2D image features into a unified 3D space for 3D object detection. Existing feature lifting approaches, such as Lift-Splat-based and 2D attention-based, either use estimated depth to get pseudo LiDAR features and then splat them to a 3D space, which is a one-pass operation without feature refinement, or ignore depth and lift features by 2D attention mechanisms, which achieve finer semantics while suffering from a depth ambiguity problem. In contrast, our DFA3D-based method first leverages the estimated depth to expand each view's 2D feature map to 3D and then utilizes DFA3D to aggregate features from the expanded 3D feature maps. With the help of DFA3D, the depth ambiguity problem can be effectively alleviated from the root, and the lifted features can be progressively refined layer by layer, thanks to the Transformer-like architecture. In addition, we propose a mathematically equivalent implementation of DFA3D which can significantly improve its memory efficiency and computational speed. We integrate DFA3D into several methods that use 2D attention-based feature lifting with only a few modifications in code and evaluate on the nuScenes dataset. The experiment results show a consistent improvement of +1.41\% mAP on average, and up to +15.1\% mAP improvement when high-quality depth information is available, demonstrating the superiority, applicability, and huge potential of DFA3D. The code is available at https://github.com/IDEA-Research/3D-deformable-attention.git. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** An Isometric Stochastic Optimizer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12979  
**Abstract:** The Adam optimizer is the standard choice in deep learning applications. I propose a simple explanation of Adam's success: it makes each parameter's step size independent of the norms of the other parameters. Based on this principle I derive Iso, a new optimizer which makes the norm of a parameter's update invariant to the application of any linear transformation to its inputs and outputs. I develop a variant of Iso called IsoAdam that allows optimal hyperparameters to be transferred from Adam, and demonstrate that IsoAdam obtains a speedup over Adam when training a small Transformer. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** A Systematic Survey of Prompt Engineering on Vision-Language Foundation  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12980  
**Abstract:** Prompt engineering is a technique that involves augmenting a large pre-trained model with task-specific hints, known as prompts, to adapt the model to new tasks. Prompts can be created manually as natural language instructions or generated automatically as either natural language instructions or vector representations. Prompt engineering enables the ability to perform predictions based solely on prompts without updating model parameters, and the easier application of large pre-trained models in real-world tasks. In past years, Prompt engineering has been well-studied in natural language processing. Recently, it has also been intensively studied in vision-language modeling. However, there is currently a lack of a systematic overview of prompt engineering on pre-trained vision-language models. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive survey of cutting-edge research in prompt engineering on three types of vision-language models: multimodal-to-text generation models (e.g. Flamingo), image-text matching models (e.g. CLIP), and text-to-image generation models (e.g. Stable Diffusion). For each type of model, a brief model summary, prompting methods, prompting-based applications, and the corresponding responsibility and integrity issues are summarized and discussed. Furthermore, the commonalities and differences between prompting on vision-language models, language models, and vision models are also discussed. The challenges, future directions, and research opportunities are summarized to foster future research on this topic. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Artificial Intelligence-Generated Terahertz Multi-Resonant Metasurfaces  via Improved Transformer and CGAN Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11794  
**Abstract:** It is well known that the inverse design of terahertz (THz) multi-resonant graphene metasurfaces by using traditional deep neural networks (DNNs) has limited generalization ability. In this paper, we propose improved Transformer and conditional generative adversarial neural networks (CGAN) for the inverse design of graphene metasurfaces based upon THz multi-resonant absorption spectra. The improved Transformer can obtain higher accuracy and generalization performance in the StoV (Spectrum to Vector) design compared to traditional multilayer perceptron (MLP) neural networks, while the StoI (Spectrum to Image) design achieved through CGAN can provide more comprehensive information and higher accuracy than the StoV design obtained by MLP. Moreover, the improved CGAN can achieve the inverse design of graphene metasurface images directly from the desired multi-resonant absorption spectra. It is turned out that this work can finish facilitating the design process of artificial intelligence-generated metasurfaces (AIGM), and even provide a useful guide for developing complex THz metasurfaces based on 2D materials using generative neural networks. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** PartDiff: Image Super-resolution with Partial Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11926  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) have achieved impressive performance on various image generation tasks, including image super-resolution. By learning to reverse the process of gradually diffusing the data distribution into Gaussian noise, DDPMs generate new data by iteratively denoising from random noise. Despite their impressive performance, diffusion-based generative models suffer from high computational costs due to the large number of denoising steps.In this paper, we first observed that the intermediate latent states gradually converge and become indistinguishable when diffusing a pair of low- and high-resolution images. This observation inspired us to propose the Partial Diffusion Model (PartDiff), which diffuses the image to an intermediate latent state instead of pure random noise, where the intermediate latent state is approximated by the latent of diffusing the low-resolution image. During generation, Partial Diffusion Models start denoising from the intermediate distribution and perform only a part of the denoising steps. Additionally, to mitigate the error caused by the approximation, we introduce "latent alignment", which aligns the latent between low- and high-resolution images during training. Experiments on both magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and natural images show that, compared to plain diffusion-based super-resolution methods, Partial Diffusion Models significantly reduce the number of denoising steps without sacrificing the quality of generation. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Simulation of Arbitrary Level Contrast Dose in MRI Using an Iterative  Global Transformer Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.11980  
**Abstract:** Deep learning (DL) based contrast dose reduction and elimination in MRI imaging is gaining traction, given the detrimental effects of Gadolinium-based Contrast Agents (GBCAs). These DL algorithms are however limited by the availability of high quality low dose datasets. Additionally, different types of GBCAs and pathologies require different dose levels for the DL algorithms to work reliably. In this work, we formulate a novel transformer (Gformer) based iterative modelling approach for the synthesis of images with arbitrary contrast enhancement that corresponds to different dose levels. The proposed Gformer incorporates a sub-sampling based attention mechanism and a rotational shift module that captures the various contrast related features. Quantitative evaluation indicates that the proposed model performs better than other state-of-the-art methods. We further perform quantitative evaluation on downstream tasks such as dose reduction and tumor segmentation to demonstrate the clinical utility. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** SCPAT-GAN: Structural Constrained and Pathology Aware Convolutional  Transformer-GAN for Virtual Histology Staining of Human Coronary OCT images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12138  
**Abstract:** There is a significant need for the generation of virtual histological information from coronary optical coherence tomography (OCT) images to better guide the treatment of coronary artery disease. However, existing methods either require a large pixel-wisely paired training dataset or have limited capability to map pathological regions. To address these issues, we proposed a structural constrained, pathology aware, transformer generative adversarial network, namely SCPAT-GAN, to generate virtual stained H&E histology from OCT images. The proposed SCPAT-GAN advances existing methods via a novel design to impose pathological guidance on structural layers using transformer-based network. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** Efficient numerical methods for Anisotropic Diffusion of Galactic Cosmic  Rays  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12276  
**Abstract:** Anisotropic diffusion is imperative in understanding cosmic ray diffusion across the Galaxy, the heliosphere, and the interplay of cosmic rays with the Galactic magnetic field. This diffusion term contributes to the highly stiff nature of the cosmic ray transport equation. To conduct numerical simulations of time-dependent cosmic ray transport, implicit integrators (namely, Crank-Nicolson (CN)) have been traditionally favoured over the CFL-bound explicit integrators in order to be able to take large step sizes. We propose exponential methods to treat the linear anisotropc diffusion equation in the presence of advection and time-independent and time-dependent sources. These methods allow us to take even larger step sizes that can substantially speed-up the simulations whilst generating highly accurate solutions. In or subsequent work, we will use these exponential solvers in the Picard code to study anisotropic cosmic ray diffusion and we will consider additional physical processes such as continuous momentum losses and reacceleration. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** DiAMoNDBack: Diffusion-denoising Autoregressive Model for  Non-Deterministic Backmapping of C Protein Traces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12451  
**Abstract:** Coarse-grained molecular models of proteins permit access to length and time scales unattainable by all-atom models and the simulation of processes that occur on long-time scales such as aggregation and folding. The reduced resolution realizes computational accelerations but an atomistic representation can be vital for a complete understanding of mechanistic details. Backmapping is the process of restoring all-atom resolution to coarse-grained molecular models. In this work, we report DiAMoNDBack (Diffusion-denoising Autoregressive Model for Non-Deterministic Backmapping) as an autoregressive denoising diffusion probability model to restore all-atom details to coarse-grained protein representations retaining only C{\alpha} coordinates. The autoregressive generation process proceeds from the protein N-terminus to C-terminus in a residue-by-residue fashion conditioned on the C{\alpha} trace and previously backmapped backbone and side chain atoms within the local neighborhood. The local and autoregressive nature of our model makes it transferable between proteins. The stochastic nature of the denoising diffusion process means that the model generates a realistic ensemble of backbone and side chain all-atom configurations consistent with the coarse-grained C{\alpha} trace. We train DiAMoNDBack over 65k+ structures from Protein Data Bank (PDB) and validate it in applications to a hold-out PDB test set, intrinsically-disordered protein structures from the Protein Ensemble Database (PED), molecular dynamics simulations of fast-folding mini-proteins from DE Shaw Research, and coarse-grained simulation data. We achieve state-of-the-art reconstruction performance in terms of correct bond formation, avoidance of side chain clashes, and diversity of the generated side chain configurational states. We make DiAMoNDBack model publicly available as a free and open source Python package. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Attribute Regularized Soft Introspective VAE: Towards Cardiac Attribute  Regularization Through MRI Domains  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12618  
**Abstract:** Deep generative models have emerged as influential instruments for data generation and manipulation. Enhancing the controllability of these models by selectively modifying data attributes has been a recent focus. Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) have shown promise in capturing hidden attributes but often produce blurry reconstructions. Controlling these attributes through different imaging domains is difficult in medical imaging. Recently, Soft Introspective VAE leverage the benefits of both VAEs and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), which have demonstrated impressive image synthesis capabilities, by incorporating an adversarial loss into VAE training. In this work, we propose the Attributed Soft Introspective VAE (Attri-SIVAE) by incorporating an attribute regularized loss, into the Soft-Intro VAE framework. We evaluate experimentally the proposed method on cardiac MRI data from different domains, such as various scanner vendors and acquisition centers. The proposed method achieves similar performance in terms of reconstruction and regularization compared to the state-of-the-art Attributed regularized VAE but additionally also succeeds in keeping the same regularization level when tested on a different dataset, unlike the compared method. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Global k-Space Interpolation for Dynamic MRI Reconstruction using Masked  Image Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12672  
**Abstract:** In dynamic Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), k-space is typically undersampled due to limited scan time, resulting in aliasing artifacts in the image domain. Hence, dynamic MR reconstruction requires not only modeling spatial frequency components in the x and y directions of k-space but also considering temporal redundancy. Most previous works rely on image-domain regularizers (priors) to conduct MR reconstruction. In contrast, we focus on interpolating the undersampled k-space before obtaining images with Fourier transform. In this work, we connect masked image modeling with k-space interpolation and propose a novel Transformer-based k-space Global Interpolation Network, termed k-GIN. Our k-GIN learns global dependencies among low- and high-frequency components of 2D+t k-space and uses it to interpolate unsampled data. Further, we propose a novel k-space Iterative Refinement Module (k-IRM) to enhance the high-frequency components learning. We evaluate our approach on 92 in-house 2D+t cardiac MR subjects and compare it to MR reconstruction methods with image-domain regularizers. Experiments show that our proposed k-space interpolation method quantitatively and qualitatively outperforms baseline methods. Importantly, the proposed approach achieves substantially higher robustness and generalizability in cases of highly-undersampled MR data. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Predict-AI-bility of how humans balance self-interest with the interest  of others  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12776  
**Abstract:** Generative artificial intelligence holds enormous potential to revolutionize decision-making processes, from everyday to high-stake scenarios. However, as many decisions carry social implications, for AI to be a reliable assistant for decision-making it is crucial that it is able to capture the balance between self-interest and the interest of others. We investigate the ability of three of the most advanced chatbots to predict dictator game decisions across 78 experiments with human participants from 12 countries. We find that only GPT-4 (not Bard nor Bing) correctly captures qualitative behavioral patterns, identifying three major classes of behavior: self-interested, inequity-averse, and fully altruistic. Nonetheless, GPT-4 consistently overestimates other-regarding behavior, inflating the proportion of inequity-averse and fully altruistic participants. This bias has significant implications for AI developers and users. 

