**ID:** 1  
**Title:** The potential of LLMs for coding with low-resource and domain-specific  programming languages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13018  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a study on the feasibility of using large language models (LLM) for coding with low-resource and domain-specific programming languages that typically lack the amount of data required for effective LLM processing techniques. This study focuses on the econometric scripting language named hansl of the open-source software gretl and employs a proprietary LLM based on GPT-3.5. Our findings suggest that LLMs can be a useful tool for writing, understanding, improving, and documenting gretl code, which includes generating descriptive docstrings for functions and providing precise explanations for abstract and poorly documented econometric code. While the LLM showcased promoting docstring-to-code translation capability, we also identify some limitations, such as its inability to improve certain sections of code and to write accurate unit tests. This study is a step towards leveraging the power of LLMs to facilitate software development in low-resource programming languages and ultimately to lower barriers to entry for their adoption. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Does Progress On Object Recognition Benchmarks Improve Real-World  Generalization?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13136  
**Abstract:** For more than a decade, researchers have measured progress in object recognition on ImageNet-based generalization benchmarks such as ImageNet-A, -C, and -R. Recent advances in foundation models, trained on orders of magnitude more data, have begun to saturate these standard benchmarks, but remain brittle in practice. This suggests standard benchmarks, which tend to focus on predefined or synthetic changes, may not be sufficient for measuring real world generalization. Consequently, we propose studying generalization across geography as a more realistic measure of progress using two datasets of objects from households across the globe. We conduct an extensive empirical evaluation of progress across nearly 100 vision models up to most recent foundation models. We first identify a progress gap between standard benchmarks and real-world, geographical shifts: progress on ImageNet results in up to 2.5x more progress on standard generalization benchmarks than real-world distribution shifts. Second, we study model generalization across geographies by measuring the disparities in performance across regions, a more fine-grained measure of real world generalization. We observe all models have large geographic disparities, even foundation CLIP models, with differences of 7-20% in accuracy between regions. Counter to modern intuition, we discover progress on standard benchmarks fails to improve geographic disparities and often exacerbates them: geographic disparities between the least performant models and today's best models have more than tripled. Our results suggest scaling alone is insufficient for consistent robustness to real-world distribution shifts. Finally, we highlight in early experiments how simple last layer retraining on more representative, curated data can complement scaling as a promising direction of future work, reducing geographic disparity on both benchmarks by over two-thirds. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Audio-aware Query-enhanced Transformer for Audio-Visual Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13236  
**Abstract:** The goal of the audio-visual segmentation (AVS) task is to segment the sounding objects in the video frames using audio cues. However, current fusion-based methods have the performance limitations due to the small receptive field of convolution and inadequate fusion of audio-visual features. To overcome these issues, we propose a novel \textbf{Au}dio-aware query-enhanced \textbf{TR}ansformer (AuTR) to tackle the task. Unlike existing methods, our approach introduces a multimodal transformer architecture that enables deep fusion and aggregation of audio-visual features. Furthermore, we devise an audio-aware query-enhanced transformer decoder that explicitly helps the model focus on the segmentation of the pinpointed sounding objects based on audio signals, while disregarding silent yet salient objects. Experimental results show that our method outperforms previous methods and demonstrates better generalization ability in multi-sound and open-set scenarios. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Fashion Matrix: Editing Photos by Just Talking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13240  
**Abstract:** The utilization of Large Language Models (LLMs) for the construction of AI systems has garnered significant attention across diverse fields. The extension of LLMs to the domain of fashion holds substantial commercial potential but also inherent challenges due to the intricate semantic interactions in fashion-related generation. To address this issue, we developed a hierarchical AI system called Fashion Matrix dedicated to editing photos by just talking. This system facilitates diverse prompt-driven tasks, encompassing garment or accessory replacement, recoloring, addition, and removal. Specifically, Fashion Matrix employs LLM as its foundational support and engages in iterative interactions with users. It employs a range of Semantic Segmentation Models (e.g., Grounded-SAM, MattingAnything, etc.) to delineate the specific editing masks based on user instructions. Subsequently, Visual Foundation Models (e.g., Stable Diffusion, ControlNet, etc.) are leveraged to generate edited images from text prompts and masks, thereby facilitating the automation of fashion editing processes. Experiments demonstrate the outstanding ability of Fashion Matrix to explores the collaborative potential of functionally diverse pre-trained models in the domain of fashion editing. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Multi-Granularity Prediction with Learnable Fusion for Scene Text  Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13244  
**Abstract:** Due to the enormous technical challenges and wide range of applications, scene text recognition (STR) has been an active research topic in computer vision for years. To tackle this tough problem, numerous innovative methods have been successively proposed, and incorporating linguistic knowledge into STR models has recently become a prominent trend. In this work, we first draw inspiration from the recent progress in Vision Transformer (ViT) to construct a conceptually simple yet functionally powerful vision STR model, which is built upon ViT and a tailored Adaptive Addressing and Aggregation (A$^3$) module. It already outperforms most previous state-of-the-art models for scene text recognition, including both pure vision models and language-augmented methods. To integrate linguistic knowledge, we further propose a Multi-Granularity Prediction strategy to inject information from the language modality into the model in an implicit way, \ie, subword representations (BPE and WordPiece) widely used in NLP are introduced into the output space, in addition to the conventional character level representation, while no independent language model (LM) is adopted. To produce the final recognition results, two strategies for effectively fusing the multi-granularity predictions are devised. The resultant algorithm (termed MGP-STR) is able to push the performance envelope of STR to an even higher level. Specifically, MGP-STR achieves an average recognition accuracy of $94\%$ on standard benchmarks for scene text recognition. Moreover, it also achieves state-of-the-art results on widely-used handwritten benchmarks as well as more challenging scene text datasets, demonstrating the generality of the proposed MGP-STR algorithm. The source code and models will be available at: \url{https://github.com/AlibabaResearch/AdvancedLiterateMachinery/tree/main/OCR/MGP-STR}. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Conditional Cross Attention Network for Multi-Space Embedding without  Entanglement in Only a SINGLE Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13254  
**Abstract:** Many studies in vision tasks have aimed to create effective embedding spaces for single-label object prediction within an image. However, in reality, most objects possess multiple specific attributes, such as shape, color, and length, with each attribute composed of various classes. To apply models in real-world scenarios, it is essential to be able to distinguish between the granular components of an object. Conventional approaches to embedding multiple specific attributes into a single network often result in entanglement, where fine-grained features of each attribute cannot be identified separately. To address this problem, we propose a Conditional Cross-Attention Network that induces disentangled multi-space embeddings for various specific attributes with only a single backbone. Firstly, we employ a cross-attention mechanism to fuse and switch the information of conditions (specific attributes), and we demonstrate its effectiveness through a diverse visualization example. Secondly, we leverage the vision transformer for the first time to a fine-grained image retrieval task and present a simple yet effective framework compared to existing methods. Unlike previous studies where performance varied depending on the benchmark dataset, our proposed method achieved consistent state-of-the-art performance on the FashionAI, DARN, DeepFashion, and Zappos50K benchmark datasets. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Curvature-based Transformer for Molecular Property Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13275  
**Abstract:** The prediction of molecular properties is one of the most important and challenging tasks in the field of artificial intelligence-based drug design. Among the current mainstream methods, the most commonly used feature representation for training DNN models is based on SMILES and molecular graphs, although these methods are concise and effective, they also limit the ability to capture spatial information. In this work, we propose Curvature-based Transformer to improve the ability of Graph Transformer neural network models to extract structural information on molecular graph data by introducing Discretization of Ricci Curvature. To embed the curvature in the model, we add the curvature information of the graph as positional Encoding to the node features during the attention-score calculation. This method can introduce curvature information from graph data without changing the original network architecture, and it has the potential to be extended to other models. We performed experiments on chemical molecular datasets including PCQM4M-LST, MoleculeNet and compared with models such as Uni-Mol, Graphormer, and the results show that this method can achieve the state-of-the-art results. It is proved that the discretized Ricci curvature also reflects the structural and functional relationship while describing the local geometry of the graph molecular data. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Prior Based Online Lane Graph Extraction from Single Onboard Camera  Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13344  
**Abstract:** The local road network information is essential for autonomous navigation. This information is commonly obtained from offline HD-Maps in terms of lane graphs. However, the local road network at a given moment can be drastically different than the one given in the offline maps; due to construction works, accidents etc. Moreover, the autonomous vehicle might be at a location not covered in the offline HD-Map. Thus, online estimation of the lane graph is crucial for widespread and reliable autonomous navigation. In this work, we tackle online Bird's-Eye-View lane graph extraction from a single onboard camera image. We propose to use prior information to increase quality of the estimations. The prior is extracted from the dataset through a transformer based Wasserstein Autoencoder. The autoencoder is then used to enhance the initial lane graph estimates. This is done through optimization of the latent space vector. The optimization encourages the lane graph estimation to be logical by discouraging it to diverge from the prior distribution. We test the method on two benchmark datasets, NuScenes and Argoverse. The results show that the proposed method significantly improves the performance compared to state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Of Mice and Pose: 2D Mouse Pose Estimation from Unlabelled Data and  Synthetic Prior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13361  
**Abstract:** Numerous fields, such as ecology, biology, and neuroscience, use animal recordings to track and measure animal behaviour. Over time, a significant volume of such data has been produced, but some computer vision techniques cannot explore it due to the lack of annotations. To address this, we propose an approach for estimating 2D mouse body pose from unlabelled images using a synthetically generated empirical pose prior. Our proposal is based on a recent self-supervised method for estimating 2D human pose that uses single images and a set of unpaired typical 2D poses within a GAN framework. We adapt this method to the limb structure of the mouse and generate the empirical prior of 2D poses from a synthetic 3D mouse model, thereby avoiding manual annotation. In experiments on a new mouse video dataset, we evaluate the performance of the approach by comparing pose predictions to a manually obtained ground truth. We also compare predictions with those from a supervised state-of-the-art method for animal pose estimation. The latter evaluation indicates promising results despite the lack of paired training data. Finally, qualitative results using a dataset of horse images show the potential of the setting to adapt to other animal species. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Predicting Code Coverage without Execution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13383  
**Abstract:** Code coverage is a widely used metric for quantifying the extent to which program elements, such as statements or branches, are executed during testing. Calculating code coverage is resource-intensive, requiring code building and execution with additional overhead for the instrumentation. Furthermore, computing coverage of any snippet of code requires the whole program context. Using Machine Learning to amortize this expensive process could lower the cost of code coverage by requiring only the source code context, and the task of code coverage prediction can be a novel benchmark for judging the ability of models to understand code. We propose a novel benchmark task called Code Coverage Prediction for Large Language Models (LLMs). We formalize this task to evaluate the capability of LLMs in understanding code execution by determining which lines of a method are executed by a given test case and inputs. We curate and release a dataset we call COVERAGEEVAL by executing tests and code from the HumanEval dataset and collecting code coverage information. We report the performance of four state-of-the-art LLMs used for code-related tasks, including OpenAI's GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-Turbo, Google's BARD, and Anthropic's Claude, on the Code Coverage Prediction task. Finally, we argue that code coverage as a metric and pre-training data source are valuable for overall LLM performance on software engineering tasks. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Towards Resolving Word Ambiguity with Word Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13417  
**Abstract:** Ambiguity is ubiquitous in natural language. Resolving ambiguous meanings is especially important in information retrieval tasks. While word embeddings carry semantic information, they fail to handle ambiguity well. Transformer models have been shown to handle word ambiguity for complex queries, but they cannot be used to identify ambiguous words, e.g. for a 1-word query. Furthermore, training these models is costly in terms of time, hardware resources, and training data, prohibiting their use in specialized environments with sensitive data. Word embeddings can be trained using moderate hardware resources. This paper shows that applying DBSCAN clustering to the latent space can identify ambiguous words and evaluate their level of ambiguity. An automatic DBSCAN parameter selection leads to high-quality clusters, which are semantically coherent and correspond well to the perceived meanings of a given word. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Holistic Exploration on Universal Decompositional Semantic Parsing:  Architecture, Data Augmentation, and LLM Paradigm  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13424  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we conduct a holistic exploration of the Universal Decompositional Semantic (UDS) Parsing. We first introduce a cascade model for UDS parsing that decomposes the complex parsing task into semantically appropriate subtasks. Our approach outperforms the prior models, while significantly reducing inference time. We also incorporate syntactic information and further optimized the architecture. Besides, different ways for data augmentation are explored, which further improve the UDS Parsing. Lastly, we conduct experiments to investigate the efficacy of ChatGPT in handling the UDS task, revealing that it excels in attribute parsing but struggles in relation parsing, and using ChatGPT for data augmentation yields suboptimal results. Our code is available at https://github.com/hexuandeng/HExp4UDS. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** A behavioural transformer for effective collaboration between a robot  and a non-stationary human  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13447  
**Abstract:** A key challenge in human-robot collaboration is the non-stationarity created by humans due to changes in their behaviour. This alters environmental transitions and hinders human-robot collaboration. We propose a principled meta-learning framework to explore how robots could better predict human behaviour, and thereby deal with issues of non-stationarity. On the basis of this framework, we developed Behaviour-Transform (BeTrans). BeTrans is a conditional transformer that enables a robot agent to adapt quickly to new human agents with non-stationary behaviours, due to its notable performance with sequential data. We trained BeTrans on simulated human agents with different systematic biases in collaborative settings. We used an original customisable environment to show that BeTrans effectively collaborates with simulated human agents and adapts faster to non-stationary simulated human agents than SOTA techniques. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Not with my name! Inferring artists' names of input strings employed by  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13527  
**Abstract:** Diffusion Models (DM) are highly effective at generating realistic, high-quality images. However, these models lack creativity and merely compose outputs based on their training data, guided by a textual input provided at creation time. Is it acceptable to generate images reminiscent of an artist, employing his name as input? This imply that if the DM is able to replicate an artist's work then it was trained on some or all of his artworks thus violating copyright. In this paper, a preliminary study to infer the probability of use of an artist's name in the input string of a generated image is presented. To this aim we focused only on images generated by the famous DALL-E 2 and collected images (both original and generated) of five renowned artists. Finally, a dedicated Siamese Neural Network was employed to have a first kind of probability. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach is an optimal starting point and can be employed as a prior for predicting a complete input string of an investigated image. Dataset and code are available at: https://github.com/ictlab-unict/not-with-my-name . 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** FacTool: Factuality Detection in Generative AI -- A Tool Augmented  Framework for Multi-Task and Multi-Domain Scenarios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13528  
**Abstract:** The emergence of generative pre-trained models has facilitated the synthesis of high-quality text, but it has also posed challenges in identifying factual errors in the generated text. In particular: (1) A wider range of tasks now face an increasing risk of containing factual errors when handled by generative models. (2) Generated texts tend to be lengthy and lack a clearly defined granularity for individual facts. (3) There is a scarcity of explicit evidence available during the process of fact checking. With the above challenges in mind, in this paper, we propose FacTool, a task and domain agnostic framework for detecting factual errors of texts generated by large language models (e.g., ChatGPT). Experiments on four different tasks (knowledge-based QA, code generation, mathematical reasoning, and scientific literature review) show the efficacy of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** XDLM: Cross-lingual Diffusion Language Model for Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13560  
**Abstract:** Recently, diffusion models have excelled in image generation tasks and have also been applied to neural language processing (NLP) for controllable text generation. However, the application of diffusion models in a cross-lingual setting is less unexplored. Additionally, while pretraining with diffusion models has been studied within a single language, the potential of cross-lingual pretraining remains understudied. To address these gaps, we propose XDLM, a novel Cross-lingual diffusion model for machine translation, consisting of pretraining and fine-tuning stages. In the pretraining stage, we propose TLDM, a new training objective for mastering the mapping between different languages; in the fine-tuning stage, we build up the translation system based on the pretrained model. We evaluate the result on several machine translation benchmarks and outperformed both diffusion and Transformer baselines. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** GPT-3 Models are Few-Shot Financial Reasoners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13617  
**Abstract:** Financial analysis is an important tool for evaluating company performance. Practitioners work to answer financial questions to make profitable investment decisions, and use advanced quantitative analyses to do so. As a result, Financial Question Answering (QA) is a question answering task that requires deep reasoning about numbers. Furthermore, it is unknown how well pre-trained language models can reason in the financial domain. The current state-of-the-art requires a retriever to collect relevant facts about the financial question from the text and a generator to produce a valid financial program and a final answer. However, recently large language models like GPT-3 have achieved state-of-the-art performance on wide variety of tasks with just a few shot examples. We run several experiments with GPT-3 and find that a separate retrieval model and logic engine continue to be essential components to achieving SOTA performance in this task, particularly due to the precise nature of financial questions and the complex information stored in financial documents. With this understanding, our refined prompt-engineering approach on GPT-3 achieves near SOTA accuracy without any fine-tuning. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Fake It Without Making It: Conditioned Face Generation for Accurate 3D  Face Shape Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13639  
**Abstract:** Accurate 3D face shape estimation is an enabling technology with applications in healthcare, security, and creative industries, yet current state-of-the-art methods either rely on self-supervised training with 2D image data or supervised training with very limited 3D data. To bridge this gap, we present a novel approach which uses a conditioned stable diffusion model for face image generation, leveraging the abundance of 2D facial information to inform 3D space. By conditioning stable diffusion on depth maps sampled from a 3D Morphable Model (3DMM) of the human face, we generate diverse and shape-consistent images, forming the basis of SynthFace. We introduce this large-scale synthesised dataset of 250K photorealistic images and corresponding 3DMM parameters. We further propose ControlFace, a deep neural network, trained on SynthFace, which achieves competitive performance on the NoW benchmark, without requiring 3D supervision or manual 3D asset creation. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** A threshold dislocation dynamics method  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13653  
**Abstract:** The Merriman-Bence-Osher threshold dynamics method is an efficient algorithm to simulate the motion by mean curvature, in which two steps of convolution with diffusion kernel and thresholding alternate. It has the advantages of being easy to implement and with high efficiency. In this paper, we propose an efficient threshold dynamics method for dislocation dynamics in a slip plane. We show that this proposed threshold dislocation dynamics method is able to give correct two leading orders in dislocation velocity, including both the $O(\log \varepsilon)$ local curvature force and the $O(1)$ nonlocal force due to the long-range stress field generated by the dislocations, where $\varepsilon$ is the dislocation core size. This is different from the available threshold dynamics methods in the literature which only give the leading order local velocities associated with mean curvature or its anisotropic generalizations of the moving fronts. We also propose a numerical method based on spatial variable stretching to overcome the numerical limitations brought by physical settings in this threshold dislocation dynamics method. Specifically, this variable stretching method is able to correct the mobility and to rescale the velocity, which can be applied generally to any threshold dynamics method. We validate the proposed threshold dislocation dynamics method by numerical simulations of various motions and interaction of dislocations. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** The Visual Language of Fabrics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13681  
**Abstract:** We introduce text2fabric, a novel dataset that links free-text descriptions to various fabric materials. The dataset comprises 15,000 natural language descriptions associated to 3,000 corresponding images of fabric materials. Traditionally, material descriptions come in the form of tags/keywords, which limits their expressivity, induces pre-existing knowledge of the appropriate vocabulary, and ultimately leads to a chopped description system. Therefore, we study the use of free-text as a more appropriate way to describe material appearance, taking the use case of fabrics as a common item that non-experts may often deal with. Based on the analysis of the dataset, we identify a compact lexicon, set of attributes and key structure that emerge from the descriptions. This allows us to accurately understand how people describe fabrics and draw directions for generalization to other types of materials. We also show that our dataset enables specializing large vision-language models such as CLIP, creating a meaningful latent space for fabric appearance, and significantly improving applications such as fine-grained material retrieval and automatic captioning. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** ARB: Advanced Reasoning Benchmark for Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13692  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance on various quantitative reasoning and knowledge benchmarks. However, many of these benchmarks are losing utility as LLMs get increasingly high scores, despite not yet reaching expert performance in these domains. We introduce ARB, a novel benchmark composed of advanced reasoning problems in multiple fields. ARB presents a more challenging test than prior benchmarks, featuring problems in mathematics, physics, biology, chemistry, and law. As a subset of ARB, we introduce a challenging set of math and physics problems which require advanced symbolic reasoning and domain knowledge. We evaluate recent models such as GPT-4 and Claude on ARB and demonstrate that current models score well below 50% on more demanding tasks. In order to improve both automatic and assisted evaluation capabilities, we introduce a rubric-based evaluation approach, allowing GPT-4 to score its own intermediate reasoning steps. Further, we conduct a human evaluation of the symbolic subset of ARB, finding promising agreement between annotators and GPT-4 rubric evaluation scores. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Deep Learning Approaches for Data Augmentation in Medical Imaging: A  Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13125  
**Abstract:** Deep learning has become a popular tool for medical image analysis, but the limited availability of training data remains a major challenge, particularly in the medical field where data acquisition can be costly and subject to privacy regulations. Data augmentation techniques offer a solution by artificially increasing the number of training samples, but these techniques often produce limited and unconvincing results. To address this issue, a growing number of studies have proposed the use of deep generative models to generate more realistic and diverse data that conform to the true distribution of the data. In this review, we focus on three types of deep generative models for medical image augmentation: variational autoencoders, generative adversarial networks, and diffusion models. We provide an overview of the current state of the art in each of these models and discuss their potential for use in different downstream tasks in medical imaging, including classification, segmentation, and cross-modal translation. We also evaluate the strengths and limitations of each model and suggest directions for future research in this field. Our goal is to provide a comprehensive review about the use of deep generative models for medical image augmentation and to highlight the potential of these models for improving the performance of deep learning algorithms in medical image analysis. 

