**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Composite Diffusion | whole >= Σparts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13720  
**Abstract:** For an artist or a graphic designer, the spatial layout of a scene is a critical design choice. However, existing text-to-image diffusion models provide limited support for incorporating spatial information. This paper introduces Composite Diffusion as a means for artists to generate high-quality images by composing from the sub-scenes. The artists can specify the arrangement of these sub-scenes through a flexible free-form segment layout. They can describe the content of each sub-scene primarily using natural text and additionally by utilizing reference images or control inputs such as line art, scribbles, human pose, canny edges, and more. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** ChildGAN: Large Scale Synthetic Child Facial Data Using Domain  Adaptation in StyleGAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13746  
**Abstract:** In this research work, we proposed a novel ChildGAN, a pair of GAN networks for generating synthetic boys and girls facial data derived from StyleGAN2. ChildGAN is built by performing smooth domain transfer using transfer learning. It provides photo-realistic, high-quality data samples. A large-scale dataset is rendered with a variety of smart facial transformations: facial expressions, age progression, eye blink effects, head pose, skin and hair color variations, and variable lighting conditions. The dataset comprises more than 300k distinct data samples. Further, the uniqueness and characteristics of the rendered facial features are validated by running different computer vision application tests which include CNN-based child gender classifier, face localization and facial landmarks detection test, identity similarity evaluation using ArcFace, and lastly running eye detection and eye aspect ratio tests. The results demonstrate that synthetic child facial data of high quality offers an alternative to the cost and complexity of collecting a large-scale dataset from real children. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** PlaneRecTR: Unified Query learning for 3D Plane Recovery from a Single  View  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13756  
**Abstract:** 3D plane recovery from a single image can usually be divided into several subtasks of plane detection, segmentation, parameter estimation and possibly depth estimation. Previous works tend to solve this task by either extending the RCNN-based segmentation network or the dense pixel embedding-based clustering framework. However, none of them tried to integrate above related subtasks into a unified framework but treat them separately and sequentially, which we suspect is potentially a main source of performance limitation for existing approaches. Motivated by this finding and the success of query-based learning in enriching reasoning among semantic entities, in this paper, we propose PlaneRecTR, a Transformer-based architecture, which for the first time unifies all subtasks related to single-view plane recovery with a single compact model. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate that our proposed unified learning achieves mutual benefits across subtasks, obtaining a new state-of-the-art performance on public ScanNet and NYUv2-Plane datasets. Codes are available at https://github.com/SJingjia/PlaneRecTR. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** E^2VPT: An Effective and Efficient Approach for Visual Prompt Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13770  
**Abstract:** As the size of transformer-based models continues to grow, fine-tuning these large-scale pretrained vision models for new tasks has become increasingly parameter-intensive. Parameter-efficient learning has been developed to reduce the number of tunable parameters during fine-tuning. Although these methods show promising results, there is still a significant performance gap compared to full fine-tuning. To address this challenge, we propose an Effective and Efficient Visual Prompt Tuning (E^2VPT) approach for large-scale transformer-based model adaptation. Specifically, we introduce a set of learnable key-value prompts and visual prompts into self-attention and input layers, respectively, to improve the effectiveness of model fine-tuning. Moreover, we design a prompt pruning procedure to systematically prune low importance prompts while preserving model performance, which largely enhances the model's efficiency. Empirical results demonstrate that our approach outperforms several state-of-the-art baselines on two benchmarks, with considerably low parameter usage (e.g., 0.32% of model parameters on VTAB-1k). Our code is available at https://github.com/ChengHan111/E2VPT. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Is GPT a Computational Model of Emotion? Detailed Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13779  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the emotional reasoning abilities of the GPT family of large language models via a component perspective. The paper first examines how the model reasons about autobiographical memories. Second, it systematically varies aspects of situations to impact emotion intensity and coping tendencies. Even without the use of prompt engineering, it is shown that GPT's predictions align significantly with human-provided appraisals and emotional labels. However, GPT faces difficulties predicting emotion intensity and coping responses. GPT-4 showed the highest performance in the initial study but fell short in the second, despite providing superior results after minor prompt engineering. This assessment brings up questions on how to effectively employ the strong points and address the weak areas of these models, particularly concerning response variability. These studies underscore the merits of evaluating models from a componential perspective. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** CosSIF: Cosine similarity-based image filtering to overcome low  inter-class variation in synthetic medical image datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13842  
**Abstract:** Crafting effective deep learning models for medical image analysis is a complex task, particularly in cases where the medical image dataset lacks significant inter-class variation. This challenge is further aggravated when employing such datasets to generate synthetic images using generative adversarial networks (GANs), as the output of GANs heavily relies on the input data. In this research, we propose a novel filtering algorithm called Cosine Similarity-based Image Filtering (CosSIF). We leverage CosSIF to develop two distinct filtering methods: Filtering Before GAN Training (FBGT) and Filtering After GAN Training (FAGT). FBGT involves the removal of real images that exhibit similarities to images of other classes before utilizing them as the training dataset for a GAN. On the other hand, FAGT focuses on eliminating synthetic images with less discriminative features compared to real images used for training the GAN. Experimental results reveal that employing either the FAGT or FBGT method with modern transformer and convolutional-based networks leads to substantial performance gains in various evaluation metrics. FAGT implementation on the ISIC-2016 dataset surpasses the baseline method in terms of sensitivity by 1.59\% and AUC by 1.88\%. Furthermore, for the HAM10000 dataset, applying FABT outperforms the baseline approach in terms of recall by 13.75\%, and with the sole implementation of FAGT, achieves a maximum accuracy of 94.44\%. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** WebArena: A Realistic Web Environment for Building Autonomous Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13854  
**Abstract:** With generative AI advances, the exciting potential for autonomous agents to manage daily tasks via natural language commands has emerged. However, cur rent agents are primarily created and tested in simplified synthetic environments, substantially limiting real-world scenario representation. In this paper, we build an environment for agent command and control that is highly realistic and reproducible. Specifically, we focus on agents that perform tasks on websites, and we create an environment with fully functional websites from four common domains: e-commerce, social forum discussions, collaborative software development, and content management. Our environment is enriched with tools (e.g., a map) and external knowledge bases (e.g., user manuals) to encourage human-like task-solving. Building upon our environment, we release a set of benchmark tasks focusing on evaluating the functional correctness of task completions. The tasks in our benchmark are diverse, long-horizon, and are designed to emulate tasks that humans routinely perform on the internet. We design and implement several autonomous agents, integrating recent techniques such as reasoning before acting. The results demonstrate that solving complex tasks is challenging: our best GPT-4-based agent only achieves an end-to-end task success rate of 10.59%. These results highlight the need for further development of robust agents, that current state-of-the-art LMs are far from perfect performance in these real-life tasks, and that WebArena can be used to measure such progress. Our code, data, environment reproduction resources, and video demonstrations are publicly available at https://webarena.dev/. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** AViT: Adapting Vision Transformers for Small Skin Lesion Segmentation  Datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13897  
**Abstract:** Skin lesion segmentation (SLS) plays an important role in skin lesion analysis. Vision transformers (ViTs) are considered an auspicious solution for SLS, but they require more training data compared to convolutional neural networks (CNNs) due to their inherent parameter-heavy structure and lack of some inductive biases. To alleviate this issue, current approaches fine-tune pre-trained ViT backbones on SLS datasets, aiming to leverage the knowledge learned from a larger set of natural images to lower the amount of skin training data needed. However, fully fine-tuning all parameters of large backbones is computationally expensive and memory intensive. In this paper, we propose AViT, a novel efficient strategy to mitigate ViTs' data-hunger by transferring any pre-trained ViTs to the SLS task. Specifically, we integrate lightweight modules (adapters) within the transformer layers, which modulate the feature representation of a ViT without updating its pre-trained weights. In addition, we employ a shallow CNN as a prompt generator to create a prompt embedding from the input image, which grasps fine-grained information and CNN's inductive biases to guide the segmentation task on small datasets. Our quantitative experiments on 4 skin lesion datasets demonstrate that AViT achieves competitive, and at times superior, performance to SOTA but with significantly fewer trainable parameters. Our code is available at https://github.com/siyi-wind/AViT. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** FinTree: Financial Dataset Pretrain Transformer Encoder for Relation  Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13900  
**Abstract:** We present FinTree, Financial Dataset Pretrain Transformer Encoder for Relation Extraction. Utilizing an encoder language model, we further pretrain FinTree on the financial dataset, adapting the model in financial domain tasks. FinTree stands out with its novel structure that predicts a masked token instead of the conventional [CLS] token, inspired by the Pattern Exploiting Training methodology. This structure allows for more accurate relation predictions between two given entities. The model is trained with a unique input pattern to provide contextual and positional information about the entities of interest, and a post-processing step ensures accurate predictions in line with the entity types. Our experiments demonstrate that FinTree outperforms on the REFinD, a large-scale financial relation extraction dataset. The code and pretrained models are available at https://github.com/HJ-Ok/FinTree. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Points-to-3D: Bridging the Gap between Sparse Points and  Shape-Controllable Text-to-3D Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13908  
**Abstract:** Text-to-3D generation has recently garnered significant attention, fueled by 2D diffusion models trained on billions of image-text pairs. Existing methods primarily rely on score distillation to leverage the 2D diffusion priors to supervise the generation of 3D models, e.g., NeRF. However, score distillation is prone to suffer the view inconsistency problem, and implicit NeRF modeling can also lead to an arbitrary shape, thus leading to less realistic and uncontrollable 3D generation. In this work, we propose a flexible framework of Points-to-3D to bridge the gap between sparse yet freely available 3D points and realistic shape-controllable 3D generation by distilling the knowledge from both 2D and 3D diffusion models. The core idea of Points-to-3D is to introduce controllable sparse 3D points to guide the text-to-3D generation. Specifically, we use the sparse point cloud generated from the 3D diffusion model, Point-E, as the geometric prior, conditioned on a single reference image. To better utilize the sparse 3D points, we propose an efficient point cloud guidance loss to adaptively drive the NeRF's geometry to align with the shape of the sparse 3D points. In addition to controlling the geometry, we propose to optimize the NeRF for a more view-consistent appearance. To be specific, we perform score distillation to the publicly available 2D image diffusion model ControlNet, conditioned on text as well as depth map of the learned compact geometry. Qualitative and quantitative comparisons demonstrate that Points-to-3D improves view consistency and achieves good shape controllability for text-to-3D generation. Points-to-3D provides users with a new way to improve and control text-to-3D generation. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** GrammarGPT: Exploring Open-Source LLMs for Native Chinese Grammatical  Error Correction with Supervised Fine-Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13923  
**Abstract:** Grammatical error correction aims to correct ungrammatical sentences automatically. Recently, some work has demonstrated the excellent capabilities of closed-source Large Language Models (LLMs, e.g., ChatGPT) in grammatical error correction. However, the potential of open-source LLMs remains unexplored. In this paper, we introduced GrammarGPT, an open-source LLM, to preliminary explore its potential for native Chinese grammatical error correction. The core recipe of GrammarGPT is to leverage the hybrid dataset of ChatGPT-generated and human-annotated. For grammatical errors with clues, we proposed a heuristic method to guide ChatGPT to generate ungrammatical sentences by providing those clues. For grammatical errors without clues, we collected ungrammatical sentences from publicly available websites and manually corrected them. In addition, we employed an error-invariant augmentation method to enhance the ability of the model to correct native Chinese grammatical errors. We ultimately constructed about 1k parallel data and utilized these data to fine-tune open-source LLMs (e.g., Phoenix, released by The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen) with instruction tuning. The experimental results show that GrammarGPT outperforms the existing SOTA system significantly. Although model parameters are 20x larger than the SOTA baseline, the required amount of data for instruction tuning is 1200x smaller, illustrating the potential of open-source LLMs on native CGEC. Our GrammarGPT ranks $3^{rd}$ on NLPCC2023 SharedTask1, demonstrating our approach's effectiveness. The code and data are available at \url{https://github.com/FreedomIntelligence/GrammarGPT}. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** The high-order exponential semi-implicit scalar auxiliary variable  approach for nonlocal Cahn-Hilliard equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13931  
**Abstract:** The nonlocal Cahn-Hilliard (NCH) equation with nonlocal diffusion operator is more suitable for the simulation of microstructure phase transition than the local Cahn-Hilliard (LCH) equation. In this paper, based on the exponential semi-implicit scalar auxiliary variable (ESI-SAV) method, the highly effcient and accurate schemes in time with unconditional energy stability for solving the NCH equation are proposed. On the one hand, we have demostrated the unconditional energy stability for the NCH equation with its high-order semi-discrete schemes carefully and rigorously. On the other hand, in order to reduce the calculation and storage cost in numerical simulation, we use the fast solver based on FFT and FCG for spatial discretization. Some numerical simulations involving the Gaussian kernel are presented and show the stability, accuracy, efficiency and unconditional energy stability of the proposed schemes. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** The stabilized exponential-SAV approach preserving maximum bound  principle for nonlocal Allen-Cahn equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13934  
**Abstract:** The nonlocal Allen-Cahn equation with nonlocal diffusion operator is a generalization of the classical Allen-Cahn equation. It satisfies the energy dissipation law and maximum bound principle (MBP), and is important for simulating a series of physical and biological phenomena involving long-distance interactions in space. In this paper, we construct first- and second-order (in time) accurate, unconditionally energy stable and MBP-preserving schemes for the nonlocal Allen-Cahn type model based on the stabilized exponential scalar auxiliary variable (sESAV) approach. On the one hand, we have proved the MBP and unconditional energy stability carefully and rigorously in the fully discrete levels. On the other hand, we adopt an efficient FFT-based fast solver to compute the nearly full coefficient matrix generated from the spatial discretization, which improves the computational efficiency. Finally, typical numerical experiments are presented to demonstrate the performance of our proposed schemes. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** How Does Diffusion Influence Pretrained Language Models on  Out-of-Distribution Data?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13949  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based pretrained language models (PLMs) have achieved great success in modern NLP. An important advantage of PLMs is good out-of-distribution (OOD) robustness. Recently, diffusion models have attracted a lot of work to apply diffusion to PLMs. It remains under-explored how diffusion influences PLMs on OOD data. The core of diffusion models is a forward diffusion process which gradually applies Gaussian noise to inputs, and a reverse denoising process which removes noise. The noised input reconstruction is a fundamental ability of diffusion models. We directly analyze OOD robustness by measuring the reconstruction loss, including testing the abilities to reconstruct OOD data, and to detect OOD samples. Experiments are conducted by analyzing different training parameters and data statistical features on eight datasets. It shows that finetuning PLMs with diffusion degrades the reconstruction ability on OOD data. The comparison also shows that diffusion models can effectively detect OOD samples, achieving state-of-the-art performance in most of the datasets with an absolute accuracy improvement up to 18%. These results indicate that diffusion reduces OOD robustness of PLMs. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Visual Prompt Flexible-Modal Face Anti-Spoofing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13958  
**Abstract:** Recently, vision transformer based multimodal learning methods have been proposed to improve the robustness of face anti-spoofing (FAS) systems. However, multimodal face data collected from the real world is often imperfect due to missing modalities from various imaging sensors. Recently, flexible-modal FAS~\cite{yu2023flexible} has attracted more attention, which aims to develop a unified multimodal FAS model using complete multimodal face data but is insensitive to test-time missing modalities. In this paper, we tackle one main challenge in flexible-modal FAS, i.e., when missing modality occurs either during training or testing in real-world situations. Inspired by the recent success of the prompt learning in language models, we propose \textbf{V}isual \textbf{P}rompt flexible-modal \textbf{FAS} (VP-FAS), which learns the modal-relevant prompts to adapt the frozen pre-trained foundation model to downstream flexible-modal FAS task. Specifically, both vanilla visual prompts and residual contextual prompts are plugged into multimodal transformers to handle general missing-modality cases, while only requiring less than 4\% learnable parameters compared to training the entire model. Furthermore, missing-modality regularization is proposed to force models to learn consistent multimodal feature embeddings when missing partial modalities. Extensive experiments conducted on two multimodal FAS benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our VP-FAS framework that improves the performance under various missing-modality cases while alleviating the requirement of heavy model re-training. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Understanding Deep Neural Networks via Linear Separability of Hidden  Layers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13962  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we measure the linear separability of hidden layer outputs to study the characteristics of deep neural networks. In particular, we first propose Minkowski difference based linear separability measures (MD-LSMs) to evaluate the linear separability degree of two points sets. Then, we demonstrate that there is a synchronicity between the linear separability degree of hidden layer outputs and the network training performance, i.e., if the updated weights can enhance the linear separability degree of hidden layer outputs, the updated network will achieve a better training performance, and vice versa. Moreover, we study the effect of activation function and network size (including width and depth) on the linear separability of hidden layers. Finally, we conduct the numerical experiments to validate our findings on some popular deep networks including multilayer perceptron (MLP), convolutional neural network (CNN), deep belief network (DBN), ResNet, VGGNet, AlexNet, vision transformer (ViT) and GoogLeNet. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Controlling the Latent Space of GANs through Reinforcement Learning: A  Case Study on Task-based Image-to-Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13978  
**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) have emerged as a formidable AI tool to generate realistic outputs based on training datasets. However, the challenge of exerting control over the generation process of GANs remains a significant hurdle. In this paper, we propose a novel methodology to address this issue by integrating a reinforcement learning (RL) agent with a latent-space GAN (l-GAN), thereby facilitating the generation of desired outputs. More specifically, we have developed an actor-critic RL agent with a meticulously designed reward policy, enabling it to acquire proficiency in navigating the latent space of the l-GAN and generating outputs based on specified tasks. To substantiate the efficacy of our approach, we have conducted a series of experiments employing the MNIST dataset, including arithmetic addition as an illustrative task. The outcomes of these experiments serve to validate our methodology. Our pioneering integration of an RL agent with a GAN model represents a novel advancement, holding great potential for enhancing generative networks in the future. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Enhanced Security against Adversarial Examples Using a Random Ensemble  of Encrypted Vision Transformer Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13985  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks (DNNs) are well known to be vulnerable to adversarial examples (AEs). In addition, AEs have adversarial transferability, which means AEs generated for a source model can fool another black-box model (target model) with a non-trivial probability. In previous studies, it was confirmed that the vision transformer (ViT) is more robust against the property of adversarial transferability than convolutional neural network (CNN) models such as ConvMixer, and moreover encrypted ViT is more robust than ViT without any encryption. In this article, we propose a random ensemble of encrypted ViT models to achieve much more robust models. In experiments, the proposed scheme is verified to be more robust against not only black-box attacks but also white-box ones than convention methods. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** This is not correct! Negation-aware Evaluation of Language Generation  Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.13989  
**Abstract:** Large language models underestimate the impact of negations on how much they change the meaning of a sentence. Therefore, learned evaluation metrics based on these models are insensitive to negations. In this paper, we propose NegBLEURT, a negation-aware version of the BLEURT evaluation metric. For that, we designed a rule-based sentence negation tool and used it to create the CANNOT negation evaluation dataset. Based on this dataset, we fine-tuned a sentence transformer and an evaluation metric to improve their negation sensitivity. Evaluating these models on existing benchmarks shows that our fine-tuned models outperform existing metrics on the negated sentences by far while preserving their base models' performances on other perturbations. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Time multiscale modeling of sorption kinetics I: uniformly accurate  schemes for highly oscillatory advection-diffusion equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14001  
**Abstract:** In this paper we propose a numerical method to solve a 2D advection-diffusion equation, in the highly oscillatory regime. We use an efficient and robust integrator which leads to an accurate approximation of the solution without any time step-size restriction. Uniform first and second order numerical approximations in time are obtained with errors, and at a cost, that are independent of the oscillation frequency. {This work is part of a long time project, and the final goal is the resolution of a Stokes-advection-diffusion system, in which the expression for the velocity in the advection term, is the solution of the Stokes equations.} This paper focuses on the time multiscale challenge, coming from the velocity that is an $\varepsilon-$periodic function, whose expression is explicitly known. We also introduce a two--scale formulation, as a first step to the numerical resolution of the complete oscillatory Stokes-advection-diffusion system, that is currently under investigation. This two--scale formulation is also useful to understand the asymptotic behaviour of the solution. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** ESSAformer: Efficient Transformer for Hyperspectral Image  Super-resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14010  
**Abstract:** Single hyperspectral image super-resolution (single-HSI-SR) aims to restore a high-resolution hyperspectral image from a low-resolution observation. However, the prevailing CNN-based approaches have shown limitations in building long-range dependencies and capturing interaction information between spectral features. This results in inadequate utilization of spectral information and artifacts after upsampling. To address this issue, we propose ESSAformer, an ESSA attention-embedded Transformer network for single-HSI-SR with an iterative refining structure. Specifically, we first introduce a robust and spectral-friendly similarity metric, \ie, the spectral correlation coefficient of the spectrum (SCC), to replace the original attention matrix and incorporates inductive biases into the model to facilitate training. Built upon it, we further utilize the kernelizable attention technique with theoretical support to form a novel efficient SCC-kernel-based self-attention (ESSA) and reduce attention computation to linear complexity. ESSA enlarges the receptive field for features after upsampling without bringing much computation and allows the model to effectively utilize spatial-spectral information from different scales, resulting in the generation of more natural high-resolution images. Without the need for pretraining on large-scale datasets, our experiments demonstrate ESSA's effectiveness in both visual quality and quantitative results. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Are Transformers with One Layer Self-Attention Using Low-Rank Weight  Matrices Universal Approximators?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14023  
**Abstract:** Existing analyses of the expressive capacity of Transformer models have required excessively deep layers for data memorization, leading to a discrepancy with the Transformers actually used in practice. This is primarily due to the interpretation of the softmax function as an approximation of the hardmax function. By clarifying the connection between the softmax function and the Boltzmann operator, we prove that a single layer of self-attention with low-rank weight matrices possesses the capability to perfectly capture the context of an entire input sequence. As a consequence, we show that single-layer Transformer has a memorization capacity for finite samples, and that Transformers consisting of one self-attention layer with two feed-forward neural networks are universal approximators for continuous functions on a compact domain. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Consensus-Adaptive RANSAC  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14030  
**Abstract:** RANSAC and its variants are widely used for robust estimation, however, they commonly follow a greedy approach to finding the highest scoring model while ignoring other model hypotheses. In contrast, Iteratively Reweighted Least Squares (IRLS) techniques gradually approach the model by iteratively updating the weight of each correspondence based on the residuals from previous iterations. Inspired by these methods, we propose a new RANSAC framework that learns to explore the parameter space by considering the residuals seen so far via a novel attention layer. The attention mechanism operates on a batch of point-to-model residuals, and updates a per-point estimation state to take into account the consensus found through a lightweight one-step transformer. This rich state then guides the minimal sampling between iterations as well as the model refinement. We evaluate the proposed approach on essential and fundamental matrix estimation on a number of indoor and outdoor datasets. It outperforms state-of-the-art estimators by a significant margin adding only a small runtime overhead. Moreover, we demonstrate good generalization properties of our trained model, indicating its effectiveness across different datasets and tasks. The proposed attention mechanism and one-step transformer provide an adaptive behavior that enhances the performance of RANSAC, making it a more effective tool for robust estimation. Code is available at https://github.com/cavalli1234/CA-RANSAC. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** 3D Semantic Subspace Traverser: Empowering 3D Generative Model with  Shape Editing Capability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14051  
**Abstract:** Shape generation is the practice of producing 3D shapes as various representations for 3D content creation. Previous studies on 3D shape generation have focused on shape quality and structure, without or less considering the importance of semantic information. Consequently, such generative models often fail to preserve the semantic consistency of shape structure or enable manipulation of the semantic attributes of shapes during generation. In this paper, we proposed a novel semantic generative model named 3D Semantic Subspace Traverser that utilizes semantic attributes for category-specific 3D shape generation and editing. Our method utilizes implicit functions as the 3D shape representation and combines a novel latent-space GAN with a linear subspace model to discover semantic dimensions in the local latent space of 3D shapes. Each dimension of the subspace corresponds to a particular semantic attribute, and we can edit the attributes of generated shapes by traversing the coefficients of those dimensions. Experimental results demonstrate that our method can produce plausible shapes with complex structures and enable the editing of semantic attributes. The code and trained models are available at https://github.com/TrepangCat/3D_Semantic_Subspace_Traverser 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** ECO: Ensembling Context Optimization for Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14063  
**Abstract:** Image recognition has recently witnessed a paradigm shift, where vision-language models are now used to perform few-shot classification based on textual prompts. Among these, the CLIP model has shown remarkable capabilities for zero-shot transfer by matching an image and a custom textual prompt in its latent space. This has paved the way for several works that focus on engineering or learning textual contexts for maximizing CLIP's classification capabilities. In this paper, we follow this trend by learning an ensemble of prompts for image classification. We show that learning diverse and possibly shorter contexts improves considerably and consistently the results rather than relying on a single trainable prompt. In particular, we report better few-shot capabilities with no additional cost at inference time. We demonstrate the capabilities of our approach on 11 different benchmarks. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Pre-Training with Diffusion models for Dental Radiography segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14066  
**Abstract:** Medical radiography segmentation, and specifically dental radiography, is highly limited by the cost of labeling which requires specific expertise and labor-intensive annotations. In this work, we propose a straightforward pre-training method for semantic segmentation leveraging Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM), which have shown impressive results for generative modeling. Our straightforward approach achieves remarkable performance in terms of label efficiency and does not require architectural modifications between pre-training and downstream tasks. We propose to first pre-train a Unet by exploiting the DDPM training objective, and then fine-tune the resulting model on a segmentation task. Our experimental results on the segmentation of dental radiographs demonstrate that the proposed method is competitive with state-of-the-art pre-training methods. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** VideoControlNet: A Motion-Guided Video-to-Video Translation Framework by  Using Diffusion Model with ControlNet  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14073  
**Abstract:** Recently, diffusion models like StableDiffusion have achieved impressive image generation results. However, the generation process of such diffusion models is uncontrollable, which makes it hard to generate videos with continuous and consistent content. In this work, by using the diffusion model with ControlNet, we proposed a new motion-guided video-to-video translation framework called VideoControlNet to generate various videos based on the given prompts and the condition from the input video. Inspired by the video codecs that use motion information for reducing temporal redundancy, our framework uses motion information to prevent the regeneration of the redundant areas for content consistency. Specifically, we generate the first frame (i.e., the I-frame) by using the diffusion model with ControlNet. Then we generate other key frames (i.e., the P-frame) based on the previous I/P-frame by using our newly proposed motion-guided P-frame generation (MgPG) method, in which the P-frames are generated based on the motion information and the occlusion areas are inpainted by using the diffusion model. Finally, the rest frames (i.e., the B-frame) are generated by using our motion-guided B-frame interpolation (MgBI) module. Our experiments demonstrate that our proposed VideoControlNet inherits the generation capability of the pre-trained large diffusion model and extends the image diffusion model to the video diffusion model by using motion information. More results are provided at our project page. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Decoding ChatGPT: A Taxonomy of Existing Research, Current Challenges,  and Possible Future Directions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14107  
**Abstract:** Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer (ChatGPT) has gained significant interest and attention since its launch in November 2022. It has shown impressive performance in various domains, including passing exams and creative writing. However, challenges and concerns related to biases and trust persist. In this work, we present a comprehensive review of over 100 Scopus-indexed publications on ChatGPT, aiming to provide a taxonomy of ChatGPT research and explore its applications. We critically analyze the existing literature, identifying common approaches employed in the studies. Additionally, we investigate diverse application areas where ChatGPT has found utility, such as healthcare, marketing and financial services, software engineering, academic and scientific writing, research and education, environmental science, and natural language processing. Through examining these applications, we gain valuable insights into the potential of ChatGPT in addressing real-world challenges. We also discuss crucial issues related to ChatGPT, including biases and trustworthiness, emphasizing the need for further research and development in these areas. Furthermore, we identify potential future directions for ChatGPT research, proposing solutions to current challenges and speculating on expected advancements. By fully leveraging the capabilities of ChatGPT, we can unlock its potential across various domains, leading to advancements in conversational AI and transformative impacts in society. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Developing and Evaluating Tiny to Medium-Sized Turkish BERT Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14134  
**Abstract:** This study introduces and evaluates tiny, mini, small, and medium-sized uncased Turkish BERT models, aiming to bridge the research gap in less-resourced languages. We trained these models on a diverse dataset encompassing over 75GB of text from multiple sources and tested them on several tasks, including mask prediction, sentiment analysis, news classification, and, zero-shot classification. Despite their smaller size, our models exhibited robust performance, including zero-shot task, while ensuring computational efficiency and faster execution times. Our findings provide valuable insights into the development and application of smaller language models, especially in the context of the Turkish language. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Learning Disentangled Discrete Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14151  
**Abstract:** Recent successes in image generation, model-based reinforcement learning, and text-to-image generation have demonstrated the empirical advantages of discrete latent representations, although the reasons behind their benefits remain unclear. We explore the relationship between discrete latent spaces and disentangled representations by replacing the standard Gaussian variational autoencoder (VAE) with a tailored categorical variational autoencoder. We show that the underlying grid structure of categorical distributions mitigates the problem of rotational invariance associated with multivariate Gaussian distributions, acting as an efficient inductive prior for disentangled representations. We provide both analytical and empirical findings that demonstrate the advantages of discrete VAEs for learning disentangled representations. Furthermore, we introduce the first unsupervised model selection strategy that favors disentangled representations. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** An Antithetic Multilevel Monte Carlo-Milstein Scheme for Stochastic  Partial Differential Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14169  
**Abstract:** We present a novel multilevel Monte Carlo approach for estimating quantities of interest for stochastic partial differential equations (SPDEs). Drawing inspiration from [Giles and Szpruch: Antithetic multilevel Monte Carlo estimation for multi-dimensional SDEs without L\'evy area simulation, Annals of Appl. Prob., 2014], we extend the antithetic Milstein scheme for finite-dimensional stochastic differential equations to Hilbert space-valued SPDEs. Our method has the advantages of both Euler and Milstein discretizations, as it is easy to implement and does not involve intractable L\'evy area terms. Moreover, the antithetic correction in our method leads to the same variance decay in a MLMC algorithm as the standard Milstein method, resulting in significantly lower computational complexity than a corresponding MLMC Euler scheme. Our approach is applicable to a broader range of non-linear diffusion coefficients and does not require any commutative properties. The key component of our MLMC algorithm is a truncated Milstein-type time stepping scheme for SPDEs, which accelerates the rate of variance decay in the MLMC method when combined with an antithetic coupling on the fine scales. We combine the truncated Milstein scheme with appropriate spatial discretizations and noise approximations on all scales to obtain a fully discrete scheme and show that the antithetic coupling does not introduce an additional bias. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Unveiling Security, Privacy, and Ethical Concerns of ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14192  
**Abstract:** This paper delves into the realm of ChatGPT, an AI-powered chatbot that utilizes topic modeling and reinforcement learning to generate natural responses. Although ChatGPT holds immense promise across various industries, such as customer service, education, mental health treatment, personal productivity, and content creation, it is essential to address its security, privacy, and ethical implications. By exploring the upgrade path from GPT-1 to GPT-4, discussing the model's features, limitations, and potential applications, this study aims to shed light on the potential risks of integrating ChatGPT into our daily lives. Focusing on security, privacy, and ethics issues, we highlight the challenges these concerns pose for widespread adoption. Finally, we analyze the open problems in these areas, calling for concerted efforts to ensure the development of secure and ethically sound large language models. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** AI and Education: An Investigation into the Use of ChatGPT for Systems  Thinking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14206  
**Abstract:** This exploratory study investigates the potential of the artificial intelligence tool, ChatGPT, to support systems thinking (ST) in various subjects. Using both general and subject specific prompts, the study assesses the accuracy, helpfulness, and reliability of ChatGPT's responses across different versions of the tool. The results indicate that ChatGPT can provide largely correct and very helpful responses in various subjects, demonstrating its potential as a tool for enhancing ST skills. However, occasional inaccuracies highlight the need for users to remain critical of ChatGPT's responses. Despite some limitations, this study suggests that with careful use and attention to its idiosyncrasies, ChatGPT can be a valuable tool for teaching and learning ST. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Boon: A Neural Search Engine for Cross-Modal Information Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14240  
**Abstract:** Visual-Semantic Embedding (VSE) networks can help search engines better understand the meaning behind visual content and associate it with relevant textual information, leading to more accurate search results. VSE networks can be used in cross-modal search engines to embed image and textual descriptions in a shared space, enabling image-to-text and text-to-image retrieval tasks. However, the full potential of VSE networks for search engines has yet to be fully explored. This paper presents Boon, a novel cross-modal search engine that combines two state-of-the-art networks: the GPT-3.5-turbo large language model, and the VSE network VITR (VIsion Transformers with Relation-focused learning) to enhance the engine's capabilities in extracting and reasoning with regional relationships in images. VITR employs encoders from CLIP that were trained with 400 million image-description pairs and it was fine-turned on the RefCOCOg dataset. Boon's neural-based components serve as its main functionalities: 1) a 'cross-modal search engine' that enables end-users to perform image-to-text and text-to-image retrieval. 2) a 'multi-lingual conversational AI' component that enables the end-user to converse about one or more images selected by the end-user. Such a feature makes the search engine accessible to a wide audience, including those with visual impairments. 3) Boon is multi-lingual and can take queries and handle conversations about images in multiple languages. Boon was implemented using the Django and PyTorch frameworks. The interface and capabilities of the Boon search engine are demonstrated using the RefCOCOg dataset, and the engine's ability to search for multimedia through the web is facilitated by Google's API. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Founding a mathematical diffusion model in linguistics. The case study  of German syntactic features in the North-Eastern Italian dialects  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14291  
**Abstract:** We take as a case study the spread of Germanic syntactic features into Romance dialects of North-Eastern Italy, which occurred after the immigration of German people in the Tyrol during the High Middle Ages. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** ChatGPT and Persuasive Technologies for the Management and Delivery of  Personalized Recommendations in Hotel Hospitality  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14298  
**Abstract:** Recommender systems have become indispensable tools in the hotel hospitality industry, enabling personalized and tailored experiences for guests. Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, and persuasive technologies, have opened new avenues for enhancing the effectiveness of those systems. This paper explores the potential of integrating ChatGPT and persuasive technologies for automating and improving hotel hospitality recommender systems. First, we delve into the capabilities of ChatGPT, which can understand and generate human-like text, enabling more accurate and context-aware recommendations. We discuss the integration of ChatGPT into recommender systems, highlighting the ability to analyze user preferences, extract valuable insights from online reviews, and generate personalized recommendations based on guest profiles. Second, we investigate the role of persuasive technology in influencing user behavior and enhancing the persuasive impact of hotel recommendations. By incorporating persuasive techniques, such as social proof, scarcity and personalization, recommender systems can effectively influence user decision-making and encourage desired actions, such as booking a specific hotel or upgrading their room. To investigate the efficacy of ChatGPT and persuasive technologies, we present a pilot experi-ment with a case study involving a hotel recommender system. We aim to study the impact of integrating ChatGPT and persua-sive techniques on user engagement, satisfaction, and conversion rates. The preliminary results demonstrate the potential of these technologies in enhancing the overall guest experience and business performance. Overall, this paper contributes to the field of hotel hospitality by exploring the synergistic relationship between LLMs and persuasive technology in recommender systems, ultimately influencing guest satisfaction and hotel revenue. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Comparative Analysis of Libraries for the Sentimental Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14311  
**Abstract:** This study is main goal is to provide a comparative comparison of libraries using machine learning methods. Experts in natural language processing (NLP) are becoming more and more interested in sentiment analysis (SA) of text changes. The objective of employing NLP text analysis techniques is to recognize and categorize feelings related to twitter users utterances. In this examination, issues with SA and the libraries utilized are also looked at. provides a number of cooperative methods to classify emotional polarity. The Naive Bayes Classifier, Decision Tree Classifier, Maxent Classifier, Sklearn Classifier, Sklearn Classifier MultinomialNB, and other conjoint learning algorithms, according to recent research, are very effective. In the project will use Five Python and R libraries NLTK, TextBlob, Vader, Transformers (GPT and BERT pretrained), and Tidytext will be used in the study to apply sentiment analysis techniques. Four machine learning models Tree of Decisions (DT), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Naive Bayes (NB), and K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) will also be used. To evaluate how well libraries for SA operate in the social network environment, comparative study was also carried out. The measures to assess the best algorithms in this experiment, which used a single data set for each method, were precision, recall, and F1 score. We conclude that the BERT transformer method with an Accuracy: 0.973 is recommended for sentiment analysis. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Visual Instruction Inversion: Image Editing via Visual Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14331  
**Abstract:** Text-conditioned image editing has emerged as a powerful tool for editing images. However, in many situations, language can be ambiguous and ineffective in describing specific image edits. When faced with such challenges, visual prompts can be a more informative and intuitive way to convey ideas. We present a method for image editing via visual prompting. Given pairs of example that represent the "before" and "after" images of an edit, our goal is to learn a text-based editing direction that can be used to perform the same edit on new images. We leverage the rich, pretrained editing capabilities of text-to-image diffusion models by inverting visual prompts into editing instructions. Our results show that with just one example pair, we can achieve competitive results compared to state-of-the-art text-conditioned image editing frameworks. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Event-based Vision for Early Prediction of Manipulation Actions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14332  
**Abstract:** Neuromorphic visual sensors are artificial retinas that output sequences of asynchronous events when brightness changes occur in the scene. These sensors offer many advantages including very high temporal resolution, no motion blur and smart data compression ideal for real-time processing. In this study, we introduce an event-based dataset on fine-grained manipulation actions and perform an experimental study on the use of transformers for action prediction with events. There is enormous interest in the fields of cognitive robotics and human-robot interaction on understanding and predicting human actions as early as possible. Early prediction allows anticipating complex stages for planning, enabling effective and real-time interaction. Our Transformer network uses events to predict manipulation actions as they occur, using online inference. The model succeeds at predicting actions early on, building up confidence over time and achieving state-of-the-art classification. Moreover, the attention-based transformer architecture allows us to study the role of the spatio-temporal patterns selected by the model. Our experiments show that the Transformer network captures action dynamic features outperforming video-based approaches and succeeding with scenarios where the differences between actions lie in very subtle cues. Finally, we release the new event dataset, which is the first in the literature for manipulation action recognition. Code will be available at https://github.com/DaniDeniz/EventVisionTransformer. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** MCMC-Correction of Score-Based Diffusion Models for Model Composition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14012  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models can be parameterised in terms of either a score or an energy function. The energy parameterisation has better theoretical properties, mainly that it enables an extended sampling procedure with a Metropolis--Hastings correction step, based on the change in total energy in the proposed samples. However, it seems to yield slightly worse performance, and more importantly, due to the widespread popularity of score-based diffusion, there are limited availability of off-the-shelf pre-trained energy-based ones. This limitation undermines the purpose of model composition, which aims to combine pre-trained models to sample from new distributions. Our proposal, however, suggests retaining the score parameterization and instead computing the energy-based acceptance probability through line integration of the score function. This allows us to re-use existing diffusion models and still combine the reverse process with various Markov-Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. We evaluate our method on a 2D experiment and find that it achieve similar or arguably better performance than the energy parameterisation. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Artifact Restoration in Histology Images with Diffusion Probabilistic  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14262  
**Abstract:** Histological whole slide images (WSIs) can be usually compromised by artifacts, such as tissue folding and bubbles, which will increase the examination difficulty for both pathologists and Computer-Aided Diagnosis (CAD) systems. Existing approaches to restoring artifact images are confined to Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), where the restoration process is formulated as an image-to-image transfer. Those methods are prone to suffer from mode collapse and unexpected mistransfer in the stain style, leading to unsatisfied and unrealistic restored images. Innovatively, we make the first attempt at a denoising diffusion probabilistic model for histological artifact restoration, namely ArtiFusion.Specifically, ArtiFusion formulates the artifact region restoration as a gradual denoising process, and its training relies solely on artifact-free images to simplify the training complexity.Furthermore, to capture local-global correlations in the regional artifact restoration, a novel Swin-Transformer denoising architecture is designed, along with a time token scheme. Our extensive evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness of ArtiFusion as a pre-processing method for histology analysis, which can successfully preserve the tissue structures and stain style in artifact-free regions during the restoration. Code is available at https://github.com/zhenqi-he/ArtiFusion. 

