**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Writer adaptation for offline text recognition: An exploration of neural  network-based methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15071  
**Abstract:** Handwriting recognition has seen significant success with the use of deep learning. However, a persistent shortcoming of neural networks is that they are not well-equipped to deal with shifting data distributions. In the field of handwritten text recognition (HTR), this shows itself in poor recognition accuracy for writers that are not similar to those seen during training. An ideal HTR model should be adaptive to new writing styles in order to handle the vast amount of possible writing styles. In this paper, we explore how HTR models can be made writer adaptive by using only a handful of examples from a new writer (e.g., 16 examples) for adaptation. Two HTR architectures are used as base models, using a ResNet backbone along with either an LSTM or Transformer sequence decoder. Using these base models, two methods are considered to make them writer adaptive: 1) model-agnostic meta-learning (MAML), an algorithm commonly used for tasks such as few-shot classification, and 2) writer codes, an idea originating from automatic speech recognition. Results show that an HTR-specific version of MAML known as MetaHTR improves performance compared to the baseline with a 1.4 to 2.0 improvement in word error rate (WER). The improvement due to writer adaptation is between 0.2 and 0.7 WER, where a deeper model seems to lend itself better to adaptation using MetaHTR than a shallower model. However, applying MetaHTR to larger HTR models or sentence-level HTR may become prohibitive due to its high computational and memory requirements. Lastly, writer codes based on learned features or Hinge statistical features did not lead to improved recognition performance. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Detecting the Presence of COVID-19 Vaccination Hesitancy from South  African Twitter Data Using Machine Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15072  
**Abstract:** Very few social media studies have been done on South African user-generated content during the COVID-19 pandemic and even fewer using hand-labelling over automated methods. Vaccination is a major tool in the fight against the pandemic, but vaccine hesitancy jeopardizes any public health effort. In this study, sentiment analysis on South African tweets related to vaccine hesitancy was performed, with the aim of training AI-mediated classification models and assessing their reliability in categorizing UGC. A dataset of 30000 tweets from South Africa were extracted and hand-labelled into one of three sentiment classes: positive, negative, neutral. The machine learning models used were LSTM, bi-LSTM, SVM, BERT-base-cased and the RoBERTa-base models, whereby their hyperparameters were carefully chosen and tuned using the WandB platform. We used two different approaches when we pre-processed our data for comparison: one was semantics-based, while the other was corpus-based. The pre-processing of the tweets in our dataset was performed using both methods, respectively. All models were found to have low F1-scores within a range of 45$\%$-55$\%$, except for BERT and RoBERTa which both achieved significantly better measures with overall F1-scores of 60$\%$ and 61$\%$, respectively. Topic modelling using an LDA was performed on the miss-classified tweets of the RoBERTa model to gain insight on how to further improve model accuracy. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Cascaded Cross-Modal Transformer for Request and Complaint Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15097  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel cascaded cross-modal transformer (CCMT) that combines speech and text transcripts to detect customer requests and complaints in phone conversations. Our approach leverages a multimodal paradigm by transcribing the speech using automatic speech recognition (ASR) models and translating the transcripts into different languages. Subsequently, we combine language-specific BERT-based models with Wav2Vec2.0 audio features in a novel cascaded cross-attention transformer model. We apply our system to the Requests Sub-Challenge of the ACM Multimedia 2023 Computational Paralinguistics Challenge, reaching unweighted average recalls (UAR) of 65.41% and 85.87% for the complaint and request classes, respectively. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Seal-3D: Interactive Pixel-Level Editing for Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15131  
**Abstract:** With the popularity of implicit neural representations, or neural radiance fields (NeRF), there is a pressing need for editing methods to interact with the implicit 3D models for tasks like post-processing reconstructed scenes and 3D content creation. While previous works have explored NeRF editing from various perspectives, they are restricted in editing flexibility, quality, and speed, failing to offer direct editing response and instant preview. The key challenge is to conceive a locally editable neural representation that can directly reflect the editing instructions and update instantly. To bridge the gap, we propose a new interactive editing method and system for implicit representations, called Seal-3D, which allows users to edit NeRF models in a pixel-level and free manner with a wide range of NeRF-like backbone and preview the editing effects instantly. To achieve the effects, the challenges are addressed by our proposed proxy function mapping the editing instructions to the original space of NeRF models and a teacher-student training strategy with local pretraining and global finetuning. A NeRF editing system is built to showcase various editing types. Our system can achieve compelling editing effects with an interactive speed of about 1 second. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Online Clustered Codebook  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15139  
**Abstract:** Vector Quantisation (VQ) is experiencing a comeback in machine learning, where it is increasingly used in representation learning. However, optimizing the codevectors in existing VQ-VAE is not entirely trivial. A problem is codebook collapse, where only a small subset of codevectors receive gradients useful for their optimisation, whereas a majority of them simply ``dies off'' and is never updated or used. This limits the effectiveness of VQ for learning larger codebooks in complex computer vision tasks that require high-capacity representations. In this paper, we present a simple alternative method for online codebook learning, Clustering VQ-VAE (CVQ-VAE). Our approach selects encoded features as anchors to update the ``dead'' codevectors, while optimising the codebooks which are alive via the original loss. This strategy brings unused codevectors closer in distribution to the encoded features, increasing the likelihood of being chosen and optimized. We extensively validate the generalization capability of our quantiser on various datasets, tasks (e.g. reconstruction and generation), and architectures (e.g. VQ-VAE, VQGAN, LDM). Our CVQ-VAE can be easily integrated into the existing models with just a few lines of code. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** VISU at WASSA 2023 Shared Task: Detecting Emotions in Reaction to News  Stories Leveraging BERT and Stacked Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15164  
**Abstract:** Our system, VISU, participated in the WASSA 2023 Shared Task (3) of Emotion Classification from essays written in reaction to news articles. Emotion detection from complex dialogues is challenging and often requires context/domain understanding. Therefore in this research, we have focused on developing deep learning (DL) models using the combination of word embedding representations with tailored prepossessing strategies to capture the nuances of emotions expressed. Our experiments used static and contextual embeddings (individual and stacked) with Bidirectional Long short-term memory (BiLSTM) and Transformer based models. We occupied rank tenth in the emotion detection task by scoring a Macro F1-Score of 0.2717, validating the efficacy of our implemented approaches for small and imbalanced datasets with mixed categories of target emotions. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Learning with Constraint Learning: New Perspective, Solution Strategy  and Various Applications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15257  
**Abstract:** The complexity of learning problems, such as Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) and its variants, multi-task and meta-learning, hyper-parameter learning, and a variety of real-world vision applications, demands a deeper understanding of their underlying coupling mechanisms. Existing approaches often address these problems in isolation, lacking a unified perspective that can reveal commonalities and enable effective solutions. Therefore, in this work, we proposed a new framework, named Learning with Constraint Learning (LwCL), that can holistically examine challenges and provide a unified methodology to tackle all the above-mentioned complex learning and vision problems. Specifically, LwCL is designed as a general hierarchical optimization model that captures the essence of these diverse learning and vision problems. Furthermore, we develop a gradient-response based fast solution strategy to overcome optimization challenges of the LwCL framework. Our proposed framework efficiently addresses a wide range of applications in learning and vision, encompassing three categories and nine different problem types. Extensive experiments on synthetic tasks and real-world applications verify the effectiveness of our approach. The LwCL framework offers a comprehensive solution for tackling complex machine learning and computer vision problems, bridging the gap between theory and practice. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** RSGPT: A Remote Sensing Vision Language Model and Benchmark  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15266  
**Abstract:** The emergence of large-scale large language models, with GPT-4 as a prominent example, has significantly propelled the rapid advancement of artificial general intelligence and sparked the revolution of Artificial Intelligence 2.0. In the realm of remote sensing (RS), there is a growing interest in developing large vision language models (VLMs) specifically tailored for data analysis in this domain. However, current research predominantly revolves around visual recognition tasks, lacking comprehensive, large-scale image-text datasets that are aligned and suitable for training large VLMs, which poses significant challenges to effectively training such models for RS applications. In computer vision, recent research has demonstrated that fine-tuning large vision language models on small-scale, high-quality datasets can yield impressive performance in visual and language understanding. These results are comparable to state-of-the-art VLMs trained from scratch on massive amounts of data, such as GPT-4. Inspired by this captivating idea, in this work, we build a high-quality Remote Sensing Image Captioning dataset (RSICap) that facilitates the development of large VLMs in the RS field. Unlike previous RS datasets that either employ model-generated captions or short descriptions, RSICap comprises 2,585 human-annotated captions with rich and high-quality information. This dataset offers detailed descriptions for each image, encompassing scene descriptions (e.g., residential area, airport, or farmland) as well as object information (e.g., color, shape, quantity, absolute position, etc). To facilitate the evaluation of VLMs in the field of RS, we also provide a benchmark evaluation dataset called RSIEval. This dataset consists of human-annotated captions and visual question-answer pairs, allowing for a comprehensive assessment of VLMs in the context of RS. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Recovering high-quality FODs from a reduced number of diffusion-weighted  images using a model-driven deep learning architecture  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15273  
**Abstract:** Fibre orientation distribution (FOD) reconstruction using deep learning has the potential to produce accurate FODs from a reduced number of diffusion-weighted images (DWIs), decreasing total imaging time. Diffusion acquisition invariant representations of the DWI signals are typically used as input to these methods to ensure that they can be applied flexibly to data with different b-vectors and b-values; however, this means the network cannot condition its output directly on the DWI signal. In this work, we propose a spherical deconvolution network, a model-driven deep learning FOD reconstruction architecture, that ensures intermediate and output FODs produced by the network are consistent with the input DWI signals. Furthermore, we implement a fixel classification penalty within our loss function, encouraging the network to produce FODs that can subsequently be segmented into the correct number of fixels and improve downstream fixel-based analysis. Our results show that the model-based deep learning architecture achieves competitive performance compared to a state-of-the-art FOD super-resolution network, FOD-Net. Moreover, we show that the fixel classification penalty can be tuned to offer improved performance with respect to metrics that rely on accurately segmented of FODs. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/Jbartlett6/SDNet . 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Multilingual Lexical Simplification via Paraphrase Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15286  
**Abstract:** Lexical simplification (LS) methods based on pretrained language models have made remarkable progress, generating potential substitutes for a complex word through analysis of its contextual surroundings. However, these methods require separate pretrained models for different languages and disregard the preservation of sentence meaning. In this paper, we propose a novel multilingual LS method via paraphrase generation, as paraphrases provide diversity in word selection while preserving the sentence's meaning. We regard paraphrasing as a zero-shot translation task within multilingual neural machine translation that supports hundreds of languages. After feeding the input sentence into the encoder of paraphrase modeling, we generate the substitutes based on a novel decoding strategy that concentrates solely on the lexical variations of the complex word. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach surpasses BERT-based methods and zero-shot GPT3-based method significantly on English, Spanish, and Portuguese. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** ChatHome: Development and Evaluation of a Domain-Specific Language Model  for Home Renovation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15290  
**Abstract:** This paper presents the development and evaluation of ChatHome, a domain-specific language model (DSLM) designed for the intricate field of home renovation. Considering the proven competencies of large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 and the escalating fascination with home renovation, this study endeavors to reconcile these aspects by generating a dedicated model that can yield high-fidelity, precise outputs relevant to the home renovation arena. ChatHome's novelty rests on its methodology, fusing domain-adaptive pretraining and instruction-tuning over an extensive dataset. This dataset includes professional articles, standard documents, and web content pertinent to home renovation. This dual-pronged strategy is designed to ensure that our model can assimilate comprehensive domain knowledge and effectively address user inquiries. Via thorough experimentation on diverse datasets, both universal and domain-specific, including the freshly introduced "EvalHome" domain dataset, we substantiate that ChatHome not only amplifies domain-specific functionalities but also preserves its versatility. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** WC-SBERT: Zero-Shot Text Classification via SBERT with Self-Training for  Wikipedia Categories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15293  
**Abstract:** Our research focuses on solving the zero-shot text classification problem in NLP, with a particular emphasis on innovative self-training strategies. To achieve this objective, we propose a novel self-training strategy that uses labels rather than text for training, significantly reducing the model's training time. Specifically, we use categories from Wikipedia as our training set and leverage the SBERT pre-trained model to establish positive correlations between pairs of categories within the same text, facilitating associative training. For new test datasets, we have improved the original self-training approach, eliminating the need for prior training and testing data from each target dataset. Instead, we adopt Wikipedia as a unified training dataset to better approximate the zero-shot scenario. This modification allows for rapid fine-tuning and inference across different datasets, greatly reducing the time required for self-training. Our experimental results demonstrate that this method can adapt the model to the target dataset within minutes. Compared to other BERT-based transformer models, our approach significantly reduces the amount of training data by training only on labels, not the actual text, and greatly improves training efficiency by utilizing a unified training set. Additionally, our method achieves state-of-the-art results on both the Yahoo Topic and AG News datasets. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Mixbiotic society measures: Comparison of organizational structures  based on communication simulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15297  
**Abstract:** The philosophical world has proposed the concept of "mixbiotic society," in which individuals with freedom and diverse values mix and mingle to recognize their respective "fundamental incapability" each other and sublimate into solidarity, toward solving the issues of social isolation and fragmentation. Based on this concept, the mixbiotic society measures have been proposed to evaluate dynamic communication patterns with reference to classification in cellular automata and particle reaction-diffusion that simulate living phenomena. In this paper, we applied these measures to five typologies of organizational structure (Red: impulsive, Amber: adaptive, Orange: achievement, Green: pluralistic, and Teal: evolutionary) and evaluated their features. Specifically, we formed star, tree, tree+jumpers, tree+more jumpers, and small-world type networks corresponding to each of five typologies, conducted communication simulations on these networks, and calculated values for mixbiotic society measures. The results showed that Teal organization has the highest value of the mixism measure among mixbiotic society measures, i.e., it balances similarity (mixing) and dissimilarity (mingling) in communication, and is living and mixbiotic between order and chaos. Measures other than mixism showed that in Teal organization, information is not concentrated in a central leader and that communication takes place among various members. This evaluation of organizational structures shows that the mixbiotic society measures is also useful for assessing organizational change. In the future, these measures will be used not only in business organizations, but also in digital democratic organizations and platform cooperatives in conjunction with information technology. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Differential Evolution Algorithm based Hyper-Parameters Selection of  Transformer Neural Network Model for Load Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15299  
**Abstract:** Accurate load forecasting plays a vital role in numerous sectors, but accurately capturing the complex dynamics of dynamic power systems remains a challenge for traditional statistical models. For these reasons, time-series models (ARIMA) and deep-learning models (ANN, LSTM, GRU, etc.) are commonly deployed and often experience higher success. In this paper, we analyze the efficacy of the recently developed Transformer-based Neural Network model in Load forecasting. Transformer models have the potential to improve Load forecasting because of their ability to learn long-range dependencies derived from their Attention Mechanism. We apply several metaheuristics namely Differential Evolution to find the optimal hyperparameters of the Transformer-based Neural Network to produce accurate forecasts. Differential Evolution provides scalable, robust, global solutions to non-differentiable, multi-objective, or constrained optimization problems. Our work compares the proposed Transformer based Neural Network model integrated with different metaheuristic algorithms by their performance in Load forecasting based on numerical metrics such as Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE). Our findings demonstrate the potential of metaheuristic-enhanced Transformer-based Neural Network models in Load forecasting accuracy and provide optimal hyperparameters for each model. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** TrafficSafetyGPT: Tuning a Pre-trained Large Language Model to a  Domain-Specific Expert in Transportation Safety  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15311  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable effectiveness in various general-domain natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, their performance in transportation safety domain tasks has been suboptimal, primarily attributed to the requirement for specialized transportation safety expertise in generating accurate responses [1]. To address this challenge, we introduce TrafficSafetyGPT, a novel LLAMA-based model, which has undergone supervised fine-tuning using TrafficSafety-2K dataset which has human labels from government produced guiding books and ChatGPT-generated instruction-output pairs. Our proposed TrafficSafetyGPT model and TrafficSafety-2K train dataset are accessible at https://github.com/ozheng1993/TrafficSafetyGPT. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** DocDeshadower: Frequency-aware Transformer for Document Shadow Removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15318  
**Abstract:** The presence of shadows significantly impacts the visual quality of scanned documents. However, the existing traditional techniques and deep learning methods used for shadow removal have several limitations. These methods either rely heavily on heuristics, resulting in suboptimal performance, or require large datasets to learn shadow-related features. In this study, we propose the DocDeshadower, a multi-frequency Transformer-based model built on Laplacian Pyramid. DocDeshadower is designed to remove shadows at different frequencies in a coarse-to-fine manner. To achieve this, we decompose the shadow image into different frequency bands using Laplacian Pyramid. In addition, we introduce two novel components to this model: the Attention-Aggregation Network and the Gated Multi-scale Fusion Transformer. The Attention-Aggregation Network is designed to remove shadows in the low-frequency part of the image, whereas the Gated Multi-scale Fusion Transformer refines the entire image at a global scale with its large perceptive field. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that DocDeshadower outperforms the current state-of-the-art methods in both qualitative and quantitative terms. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** TaskExpert: Dynamically Assembling Multi-Task Representations with  Memorial Mixture-of-Experts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15324  
**Abstract:** Learning discriminative task-specific features simultaneously for multiple distinct tasks is a fundamental problem in multi-task learning. Recent state-of-the-art models consider directly decoding task-specific features from one shared task-generic feature (e.g., feature from a backbone layer), and utilize carefully designed decoders to produce multi-task features. However, as the input feature is fully shared and each task decoder also shares decoding parameters for different input samples, it leads to a static feature decoding process, producing less discriminative task-specific representations. To tackle this limitation, we propose TaskExpert, a novel multi-task mixture-of-experts model that enables learning multiple representative task-generic feature spaces and decoding task-specific features in a dynamic manner. Specifically, TaskExpert introduces a set of expert networks to decompose the backbone feature into several representative task-generic features. Then, the task-specific features are decoded by using dynamic task-specific gating networks operating on the decomposed task-generic features. Furthermore, to establish long-range modeling of the task-specific representations from different layers of TaskExpert, we design a multi-task feature memory that updates at each layer and acts as an additional feature expert for dynamic task-specific feature decoding. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our TaskExpert clearly outperforms previous best-performing methods on all 9 metrics of two competitive multi-task learning benchmarks for visual scene understanding (i.e., PASCAL-Context and NYUD-v2). Codes and models will be made publicly available at https://github.com/prismformore/Multi-Task-Transformer 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Staging E-Commerce Products for Online Advertising using Retrieval  Assisted Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15326  
**Abstract:** Online ads showing e-commerce products typically rely on the product images in a catalog sent to the advertising platform by an e-commerce platform. In the broader ads industry such ads are called dynamic product ads (DPA). It is common for DPA catalogs to be in the scale of millions (corresponding to the scale of products which can be bought from the e-commerce platform). However, not all product images in the catalog may be appealing when directly re-purposed as an ad image, and this may lead to lower click-through rates (CTRs). In particular, products just placed against a solid background may not be as enticing and realistic as a product staged in a natural environment. To address such shortcomings of DPA images at scale, we propose a generative adversarial network (GAN) based approach to generate staged backgrounds for un-staged product images. Generating the entire staged background is a challenging task susceptible to hallucinations. To get around this, we introduce a simpler approach called copy-paste staging using retrieval assisted GANs. In copy paste staging, we first retrieve (from the catalog) staged products similar to the un-staged input product, and then copy-paste the background of the retrieved product in the input image. A GAN based in-painting model is used to fill the holes left after this copy-paste operation. We show the efficacy of our copy-paste staging method via offline metrics, and human evaluation. In addition, we show how our staging approach can enable animations of moving products leading to a video ad from a product image. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Tutorials on Stance Detection using Pre-trained Language Models:  Fine-tuning BERT and Prompting Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15331  
**Abstract:** This paper presents two self-contained tutorials on stance detection in Twitter data using BERT fine-tuning and prompting large language models (LLMs). The first tutorial explains BERT architecture and tokenization, guiding users through training, tuning, and evaluating standard and domain-specific BERT models with HuggingFace transformers. The second focuses on constructing prompts and few-shot examples to elicit stances from ChatGPT and open-source FLAN-T5 without fine-tuning. Various prompting strategies are implemented and evaluated using confusion matrices and macro F1 scores. The tutorials provide code, visualizations, and insights revealing the strengths of few-shot ChatGPT and FLAN-T5 which outperform fine-tuned BERTs. By covering both model fine-tuning and prompting-based techniques in an accessible, hands-on manner, these tutorials enable learners to gain applied experience with cutting-edge methods for stance detection. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Dynamic PlenOctree for Adaptive Sampling Refinement in Explicit NeRF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15333  
**Abstract:** The explicit neural radiance field (NeRF) has gained considerable interest for its efficient training and fast inference capabilities, making it a promising direction such as virtual reality and gaming. In particular, PlenOctree (POT)[1], an explicit hierarchical multi-scale octree representation, has emerged as a structural and influential framework. However, POT's fixed structure for direct optimization is sub-optimal as the scene complexity evolves continuously with updates to cached color and density, necessitating refining the sampling distribution to capture signal complexity accordingly. To address this issue, we propose the dynamic PlenOctree DOT, which adaptively refines the sample distribution to adjust to changing scene complexity. Specifically, DOT proposes a concise yet novel hierarchical feature fusion strategy during the iterative rendering process. Firstly, it identifies the regions of interest through training signals to ensure adaptive and efficient refinement. Next, rather than directly filtering out valueless nodes, DOT introduces the sampling and pruning operations for octrees to aggregate features, enabling rapid parameter learning. Compared with POT, our DOT outperforms it by enhancing visual quality, reducing over $55.15$/$68.84\%$ parameters, and providing 1.7/1.9 times FPS for NeRF-synthetic and Tanks $\&$ Temples, respectively. Project homepage:https://vlislab22.github.io/DOT. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** BARTPhoBEiT: Pre-trained Sequence-to-Sequence and Image Transformers  Models for Vietnamese Visual Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15335  
**Abstract:** Visual Question Answering (VQA) is an intricate and demanding task that integrates natural language processing (NLP) and computer vision (CV), capturing the interest of researchers. The English language, renowned for its wealth of resources, has witnessed notable advancements in both datasets and models designed for VQA. However, there is a lack of models that target specific countries such as Vietnam. To address this limitation, we introduce a transformer-based Vietnamese model named BARTPhoBEiT. This model includes pre-trained Sequence-to-Sequence and bidirectional encoder representation from Image Transformers in Vietnamese and evaluates Vietnamese VQA datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed model outperforms the strong baseline and improves the state-of-the-art in six metrics: Accuracy, Precision, Recall, F1-score, WUPS 0.0, and WUPS 0.9. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Prompt Guided Transformer for Multi-Task Dense Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15362  
**Abstract:** Task-conditional architecture offers advantage in parameter efficiency but falls short in performance compared to state-of-the-art multi-decoder methods. How to trade off performance and model parameters is an important and difficult problem. In this paper, we introduce a simple and lightweight task-conditional model called Prompt Guided Transformer (PGT) to optimize this challenge. Our approach designs a Prompt-conditioned Transformer block, which incorporates task-specific prompts in the self-attention mechanism to achieve global dependency modeling and parameter-efficient feature adaptation across multiple tasks. This block is integrated into both the shared encoder and decoder, enhancing the capture of intra- and inter-task features. Moreover, we design a lightweight decoder to further reduce parameter usage, which accounts for only 2.7% of the total model parameters. Extensive experiments on two multi-task dense prediction benchmarks, PASCAL-Context and NYUD-v2, demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art results among task-conditional methods while using fewer parameters, and maintains a significant balance between performance and parameter size. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Private-Library-Oriented Code Generation with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15370  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as Codex and GPT-4, have recently showcased their remarkable code generation abilities, facilitating a significant boost in coding efficiency. This paper will delve into utilizing LLMs for code generation in private libraries, as they are widely employed in everyday programming. Despite their remarkable capabilities, generating such private APIs poses a formidable conundrum for LLMs, as they inherently lack exposure to these private libraries during pre-training. To address this challenge, we propose a novel framework that emulates the process of programmers writing private code. This framework comprises two modules: APIFinder first retrieves potentially useful APIs from API documentation; and APICoder then leverages these retrieved APIs to generate private code. Specifically, APIFinder employs vector retrieval techniques and allows user involvement in the retrieval process. For APICoder, it can directly utilize off-the-shelf code generation models. To further cultivate explicit proficiency in invoking APIs from prompts, we continuously pre-train a reinforced version of APICoder, named CodeGenAPI. Our goal is to train the above two modules on vast public libraries, enabling generalization to private ones. Meanwhile, we create four private library benchmarks, including TorchDataEval, TorchDataComplexEval, MonkeyEval, and BeatNumEval, and meticulously handcraft test cases for each benchmark to support comprehensive evaluations. Numerous experiments on the four benchmarks consistently affirm the effectiveness of our approach. Furthermore, deeper analysis is also conducted to glean additional insights. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Multilingual Tourist Assistance using ChatGPT: Comparing Capabilities in  Hindi, Telugu, and Kannada  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15376  
**Abstract:** This research investigates the effectiveness of ChatGPT, an AI language model by OpenAI, in translating English into Hindi, Telugu, and Kannada languages, aimed at assisting tourists in India's linguistically diverse environment. To measure the translation quality, a test set of 50 questions from diverse fields such as general knowledge, food, and travel was used. These were assessed by five volunteers for accuracy and fluency, and the scores were subsequently converted into a BLEU score. The BLEU score evaluates the closeness of a machine-generated translation to a human translation, with a higher score indicating better translation quality. The Hindi translations outperformed others, showcasing superior accuracy and fluency, whereas Telugu translations lagged behind. Human evaluators rated both the accuracy and fluency of translations, offering a comprehensive perspective on the language model's performance. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** A Critical Review of Large Language Models: Sensitivity, Bias, and the  Path Toward Specialized AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15425  
**Abstract:** This paper examines the comparative effectiveness of a specialized compiled language model and a general-purpose model like OpenAI's GPT-3.5 in detecting SDGs within text data. It presents a critical review of Large Language Models (LLMs), addressing challenges related to bias and sensitivity. The necessity of specialized training for precise, unbiased analysis is underlined. A case study using a company descriptions dataset offers insight into the differences between the GPT-3.5 and the specialized SDG detection model. While GPT-3.5 boasts broader coverage, it may identify SDGs with limited relevance to the companies' activities. In contrast, the specialized model zeroes in on highly pertinent SDGs. The importance of thoughtful model selection is emphasized, taking into account task requirements, cost, complexity, and transparency. Despite the versatility of LLMs, the use of specialized models is suggested for tasks demanding precision and accuracy. The study concludes by encouraging further research to find a balance between the capabilities of LLMs and the need for domain-specific expertise and interpretability. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Cross-Modal Concept Learning and Inference for Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15460  
**Abstract:** Large-scale pre-trained Vision-Language Models (VLMs), such as CLIP, establish the correlation between texts and images, achieving remarkable success on various downstream tasks with fine-tuning. In existing fine-tuning methods, the class-specific text description is matched against the whole image. We recognize that this whole image matching is not effective since images from the same class often contain a set of different semantic objects, and an object further consists of a set of semantic parts or concepts. Individual semantic parts or concepts may appear in image samples from different classes. To address this issue, in this paper, we develop a new method called cross-model concept learning and inference (CCLI). Using the powerful text-image correlation capability of CLIP, our method automatically learns a large set of distinctive visual concepts from images using a set of semantic text concepts. Based on these visual concepts, we construct a discriminative representation of images and learn a concept inference network to perform downstream image classification tasks, such as few-shot learning and domain generalization. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our CCLI method is able to improve the performance upon the current state-of-the-art methods by large margins, for example, by up to 8.0% improvement on few-shot learning and by up to 1.3% for domain generalization. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** LUCID-GAN: Conditional Generative Models to Locate Unfairness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15466  
**Abstract:** Most group fairness notions detect unethical biases by computing statistical parity metrics on a model's output. However, this approach suffers from several shortcomings, such as philosophical disagreement, mutual incompatibility, and lack of interpretability. These shortcomings have spurred the research on complementary bias detection methods that offer additional transparency into the sources of discrimination and are agnostic towards an a priori decision on the definition of fairness and choice of protected features. A recent proposal in this direction is LUCID (Locating Unfairness through Canonical Inverse Design), where canonical sets are generated by performing gradient descent on the input space, revealing a model's desired input given a preferred output. This information about the model's mechanisms, i.e., which feature values are essential to obtain specific outputs, allows exposing potential unethical biases in its internal logic. Here, we present LUCID-GAN, which generates canonical inputs via a conditional generative model instead of gradient-based inverse design. LUCID-GAN has several benefits, including that it applies to non-differentiable models, ensures that canonical sets consist of realistic inputs, and allows to assess proxy and intersectional discrimination. We empirically evaluate LUCID-GAN on the UCI Adult and COMPAS data sets and show that it allows for detecting unethical biases in black-box models without requiring access to the training data. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Minimally-Supervised Speech Synthesis with Conditional Diffusion Model  and Language Model: A Comparative Study of Semantic Coding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15484  
**Abstract:** Recently, there has been a growing interest in text-to-speech (TTS) methods that can be trained with minimal supervision by combining two types of discrete speech representations and using two sequence-to-sequence tasks to decouple TTS. To address the challenges associated with high dimensionality and waveform distortion in discrete representations, we propose Diff-LM-Speech, which models semantic embeddings into mel-spectrogram based on diffusion models and introduces a prompt encoder structure based on variational autoencoders and prosody bottlenecks to improve prompt representation capabilities. Autoregressive language models often suffer from missing and repeated words, while non-autoregressive frameworks face expression averaging problems due to duration prediction models. To address these issues, we propose Tetra-Diff-Speech, which designs a duration diffusion model to achieve diverse prosodic expressions. While we expect the information content of semantic coding to be between that of text and acoustic coding, existing models extract semantic coding with a lot of redundant information and dimensionality explosion. To verify that semantic coding is not necessary, we propose Tri-Diff-Speech. Experimental results show that our proposed methods outperform baseline methods. We provide a website with audio samples. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** The Road to Quality is Paved with Good Revisions: A Detailed Evaluation  Methodology for Revision Policies in Incremental Sequence Labelling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15508  
**Abstract:** Incremental dialogue model components produce a sequence of output prefixes based on incoming input. Mistakes can occur due to local ambiguities or to wrong hypotheses, making the ability to revise past outputs a desirable property that can be governed by a policy. In this work, we formalise and characterise edits and revisions in incremental sequence labelling and propose metrics to evaluate revision policies. We then apply our methodology to profile the incremental behaviour of three Transformer-based encoders in various tasks, paving the road for better revision policies. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Fast Prototyping Next-Generation Accelerators for New ML Models using  MASE: ML Accelerator System Exploration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15517  
**Abstract:** Machine learning (ML) accelerators have been studied and used extensively to compute ML models with high performance and low power. However, designing such accelerators normally takes a long time and requires significant effort. Unfortunately, the pace of development of ML software models is much faster than the accelerator design cycle, leading to frequent and drastic modifications in the model architecture, thus rendering many accelerators obsolete. Existing design tools and frameworks can provide quick accelerator prototyping, but only for a limited range of models that can fit into a single hardware device, such as an FPGA. Furthermore, with the emergence of large language models, such as GPT-3, there is an increased need for hardware prototyping of these large models within a many-accelerator system to ensure the hardware can scale with the ever-growing model sizes. In this paper, we propose an efficient and scalable approach for exploring accelerator systems to compute large ML models. We developed a tool named MASE that can directly map large ML models onto an efficient streaming accelerator system. Over a set of ML models, we show that MASE can achieve better energy efficiency to GPUs when computing inference for recent transformer models. Our tool will open-sourced upon publication. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Point Clouds Are Specialized Images: A Knowledge Transfer Approach for  3D Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15569  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised representation learning (SSRL) has gained increasing attention in point cloud understanding, in addressing the challenges posed by 3D data scarcity and high annotation costs. This paper presents PCExpert, a novel SSRL approach that reinterprets point clouds as "specialized images". This conceptual shift allows PCExpert to leverage knowledge derived from large-scale image modality in a more direct and deeper manner, via extensively sharing the parameters with a pre-trained image encoder in a multi-way Transformer architecture. The parameter sharing strategy, combined with a novel pretext task for pre-training, i.e., transformation estimation, empowers PCExpert to outperform the state of the arts in a variety of tasks, with a remarkable reduction in the number of trainable parameters. Notably, PCExpert's performance under LINEAR fine-tuning (e.g., yielding a 90.02% overall accuracy on ScanObjectNN) has already approached the results obtained with FULL model fine-tuning (92.66%), demonstrating its effective and robust representation capability. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** CLIP Brings Better Features to Visual Aesthetics Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15640  
**Abstract:** The success of pre-training approaches on a variety of downstream tasks has revitalized the field of computer vision. Image aesthetics assessment (IAA) is one of the ideal application scenarios for such methods due to subjective and expensive labeling procedure. In this work, an unified and flexible two-phase \textbf{C}LIP-based \textbf{S}emi-supervised \textbf{K}nowledge \textbf{D}istillation paradigm is proposed, namely \textbf{\textit{CSKD}}. Specifically, we first integrate and leverage a multi-source unlabeled dataset to align rich features between a given visual encoder and an off-the-shelf CLIP image encoder via feature alignment loss. Notably, the given visual encoder is not limited by size or structure and, once well-trained, it can seamlessly serve as a better visual aesthetic learner for both student and teacher. In the second phase, the unlabeled data is also utilized in semi-supervised IAA learning to further boost student model performance when applied in latency-sensitive production scenarios. By analyzing the attention distance and entropy before and after feature alignment, we notice an alleviation of feature collapse issue, which in turn showcase the necessity of feature alignment instead of training directly based on CLIP image encoder. Extensive experiments indicate the superiority of CSKD, which achieves state-of-the-art performance on multiple widely used IAA benchmarks. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Universal Recurrent Event Memories for Streaming Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15694  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose a new event memory architecture (MemNet) for recurrent neural networks, which is universal for different types of time series data such as scalar, multivariate or symbolic. Unlike other external neural memory architectures, it stores key-value pairs, which separate the information for addressing and for content to improve the representation, as in the digital archetype. Moreover, the key-value pairs also avoid the compromise between memory depth and resolution that applies to memories constructed by the model state. One of the MemNet key characteristics is that it requires only linear adaptive mapping functions while implementing a nonlinear operation on the input data. MemNet architecture can be applied without modifications to scalar time series, logic operators on strings, and also to natural language processing, providing state-of-the-art results in all application domains such as the chaotic time series, the symbolic operation tasks, and the question-answering tasks (bAbI). Finally, controlled by five linear layers, MemNet requires a much smaller number of training parameters than other external memory networks as well as the transformer network. The space complexity of MemNet equals a single self-attention layer. It greatly improves the efficiency of the attention mechanism and opens the door for IoT applications. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** MeMOTR: Long-Term Memory-Augmented Transformer for Multi-Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15700  
**Abstract:** As a video task, Multi-Object Tracking (MOT) is expected to capture temporal information of targets effectively. Unfortunately, most existing methods only explicitly exploit the object features between adjacent frames, while lacking the capacity to model long-term temporal information. In this paper, we propose MeMOTR, a long-term memory-augmented Transformer for multi-object tracking. Our method is able to make the same object's track embedding more stable and distinguishable by leveraging long-term memory injection with a customized memory-attention layer. This significantly improves the target association ability of our model. Experimental results on DanceTrack show that MeMOTR impressively surpasses the state-of-the-art method by 7.9\% and 13.0\% on HOTA and AssA metrics, respectively. Furthermore, our model also outperforms other Transformer-based methods on association performance on MOT17 and generalizes well on BDD100K. Code is available at \href{https://github.com/MCG-NJU/MeMOTR}{https://github.com/MCG-NJU/MeMOTR}. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Neural Schrödinger Bridge with Sinkhorn Losses: Application to  Data-driven Minimum Effort Control of Colloidal Self-assembly  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.14442  
**Abstract:** We show that the minimum effort control of colloidal self-assembly can be naturally formulated in the order-parameter space as a generalized Schr\"odinger bridge problem -- a class of fixed-horizon stochastic optimal control problems that originated in the works of Erwin Schr\"odinger in the early 1930s. In recent years, this class of problems has seen a resurgence of research activities in control and machine learning communities. Different from the existing literature on the theory and computation for such problems, the controlled drift and diffusion coefficients for colloidal self-assembly are typically non-affine in control, and are difficult to obtain from physics-based modeling. We deduce the conditions of optimality for such generalized problems, and show that the resulting system of equations is structurally very different from the existing results in a way that standard computational approaches no longer apply. Thus motivated, we propose a data-driven learning and control framework, named `neural Schr\"odinger bridge', to solve such generalized Schr\"odinger bridge problems by innovating on recent advances in neural networks. We illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework using a numerical case study of colloidal self-assembly. We learn the controlled drift and diffusion coefficients as two neural networks using molecular dynamics simulation data, and then use these two to train a third network with Sinkhorn losses designed for distributional endpoint constraints, specific for this class of control problems. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Generative AI for Medical Imaging: extending the MONAI Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15208  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in generative AI have brought incredible breakthroughs in several areas, including medical imaging. These generative models have tremendous potential not only to help safely share medical data via synthetic datasets but also to perform an array of diverse applications, such as anomaly detection, image-to-image translation, denoising, and MRI reconstruction. However, due to the complexity of these models, their implementation and reproducibility can be difficult. This complexity can hinder progress, act as a use barrier, and dissuade the comparison of new methods with existing works. In this study, we present MONAI Generative Models, a freely available open-source platform that allows researchers and developers to easily train, evaluate, and deploy generative models and related applications. Our platform reproduces state-of-art studies in a standardised way involving different architectures (such as diffusion models, autoregressive transformers, and GANs), and provides pre-trained models for the community. We have implemented these models in a generalisable fashion, illustrating that their results can be extended to 2D or 3D scenarios, including medical images with different modalities (like CT, MRI, and X-Ray data) and from different anatomical areas. Finally, we adopt a modular and extensible approach, ensuring long-term maintainability and the extension of current applications for future features. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** PCNN: A Lightweight Parallel Conformer Neural Network for Efficient  Monaural Speech Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15251  
**Abstract:** Convolutional neural networks (CNN) and Transformer have wildly succeeded in multimedia applications. However, more effort needs to be made to harmonize these two architectures effectively to satisfy speech enhancement. This paper aims to unify these two architectures and presents a Parallel Conformer for speech enhancement. In particular, the CNN and the self-attention (SA) in the Transformer are fully exploited for local format patterns and global structure representations. Based on the small receptive field size of CNN and the high computational complexity of SA, we specially designed a multi-branch dilated convolution (MBDC) and a self-channel-time-frequency attention (Self-CTFA) module. MBDC contains three convolutional layers with different dilation rates for the feature from local to non-local processing. Experimental results show that our method performs better than state-of-the-art methods in most evaluation criteria while maintaining the lowest model parameters. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Scale-aware Test-time Click Adaptation for Pulmonary Nodule and Mass  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.15645  
**Abstract:** Pulmonary nodules and masses are crucial imaging features in lung cancer screening that require careful management in clinical diagnosis. Despite the success of deep learning-based medical image segmentation, the robust performance on various sizes of lesions of nodule and mass is still challenging. In this paper, we propose a multi-scale neural network with scale-aware test-time adaptation to address this challenge. Specifically, we introduce an adaptive Scale-aware Test-time Click Adaptation method based on effortlessly obtainable lesion clicks as test-time cues to enhance segmentation performance, particularly for large lesions. The proposed method can be seamlessly integrated into existing networks. Extensive experiments on both open-source and in-house datasets consistently demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method over some CNN and Transformer-based segmentation methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/SplinterLi/SaTTCA 

