**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Investigating Masking-based Data Generation in Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00008  
**Abstract:** The current era of natural language processing (NLP) has been defined by the prominence of pre-trained language models since the advent of BERT. A feature of BERT and models with similar architecture is the objective of masked language modeling, in which part of the input is intentionally masked and the model is trained to predict this piece of masked information. Data augmentation is a data-driven technique widely used in machine learning, including research areas like computer vision and natural language processing, to improve model performance by artificially augmenting the training data set by designated techniques. Masked language models (MLM), an essential training feature of BERT, have introduced a novel approach to perform effective pre-training on Transformer based models in natural language processing tasks. Recent studies have utilized masked language model to generate artificially augmented data for NLP downstream tasks. The experimental results show that Mask based data augmentation method provides a simple but efficient approach to improve the model performance. In this paper, we explore and discuss the broader utilization of these data augmentation methods based on MLM. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Transformers in Healthcare: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00067  
**Abstract:** With Artificial Intelligence (AI) increasingly permeating various aspects of society, including healthcare, the adoption of the Transformers neural network architecture is rapidly changing many applications. Transformer is a type of deep learning architecture initially developed to solve general-purpose Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks and has subsequently been adapted in many fields, including healthcare. In this survey paper, we provide an overview of how this architecture has been adopted to analyze various forms of data, including medical imaging, structured and unstructured Electronic Health Records (EHR), social media, physiological signals, and biomolecular sequences. Those models could help in clinical diagnosis, report generation, data reconstruction, and drug/protein synthesis. We identified relevant studies using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. We also discuss the benefits and limitations of using transformers in healthcare and examine issues such as computational cost, model interpretability, fairness, alignment with human values, ethical implications, and environmental impact. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Prompting classes: Exploring the Power of Prompt Class Learning in  Weakly Supervised Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00097  
**Abstract:** Recently, CLIP-based approaches have exhibited remarkable performance on generalization and few-shot learning tasks, fueled by the power of contrastive language-vision pre-training. In particular, prompt tuning has emerged as an effective strategy to adapt the pre-trained language-vision models to downstream tasks by employing task-related textual tokens. Motivated by this progress, in this work we question whether other fundamental problems, such as weakly supervised semantic segmentation (WSSS), can benefit from prompt tuning. Our findings reveal two interesting observations that shed light on the impact of prompt tuning on WSSS. First, modifying only the class token of the text prompt results in a greater impact on the Class Activation Map (CAM), compared to arguably more complex strategies that optimize the context. And second, the class token associated with the image ground truth does not necessarily correspond to the category that yields the best CAM. Motivated by these observations, we introduce a novel approach based on a PrOmpt cLass lEarning (POLE) strategy. Through extensive experiments we demonstrate that our simple, yet efficient approach achieves SOTA performance in a well-known WSSS benchmark. These results highlight not only the benefits of language-vision models in WSSS but also the potential of prompt learning for this problem. The code is available at https://github.com/rB080/WSS_POLE. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Ticket-BERT: Labeling Incident Management Tickets with Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00108  
**Abstract:** An essential aspect of prioritizing incident tickets for resolution is efficiently labeling tickets with fine-grained categories. However, ticket data is often complex and poses several unique challenges for modern machine learning methods: (1) tickets are created and updated either by machines with pre-defined algorithms or by engineers with domain expertise that share different protocols, (2) tickets receive frequent revisions that update ticket status by modifying all or parts of ticket descriptions, and (3) ticket labeling is time-sensitive and requires knowledge updates and new labels per the rapid software and hardware improvement lifecycle. To handle these issues, we introduce Ticket- BERT which trains a simple yet robust language model for labeling tickets using our proposed ticket datasets. Experiments demonstrate the superiority of Ticket-BERT over baselines and state-of-the-art text classifiers on Azure Cognitive Services. We further encapsulate Ticket-BERT with an active learning cycle and deploy it on the Microsoft IcM system, which enables the model to quickly finetune on newly-collected tickets with a few annotations. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Performance of ChatGPT on USMLE: Unlocking the Potential of Large  Language Models for AI-Assisted Medical Education  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00112  
**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence is gaining traction in more ways than ever before. The popularity of language models and AI-based businesses has soared since ChatGPT was made available to the general public via OpenAI. It is becoming increasingly common for people to use ChatGPT both professionally and personally. Considering the widespread use of ChatGPT and the reliance people place on it, this study determined how reliable ChatGPT can be for answering complex medical and clinical questions. Harvard University gross anatomy along with the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) questionnaire were used to accomplish the objective. The paper evaluated the obtained results using a 2-way ANOVA and posthoc analysis. Both showed systematic covariation between format and prompt. Furthermore, the physician adjudicators independently rated the outcome's accuracy, concordance, and insight. As a result of the analysis, ChatGPT-generated answers were found to be more context-oriented and represented a better model for deductive reasoning than regular Google search results. Furthermore, ChatGPT obtained 58.8% on logical questions and 60% on ethical questions. This means that the ChatGPT is approaching the passing range for logical questions and has crossed the threshold for ethical questions. The paper believes ChatGPT and other language learning models can be invaluable tools for e-learners; however, the study suggests that there is still room to improve their accuracy. In order to improve ChatGPT's performance in the future, further research is needed to better understand how it can answer different types of questions. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** SMILE: Evaluation and Domain Adaptation for Social Media Language  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00135  
**Abstract:** We study the ability of transformer-based language models (LMs) to understand social media language. Social media (SM) language is distinct from standard written language, yet existing benchmarks fall short of capturing LM performance in this socially, economically, and politically important domain. We quantify the degree to which social media language differs from conventional language and conclude that the difference is significant both in terms of token distribution and rate of linguistic shift. Next, we introduce a new benchmark for Social MedIa Language Evaluation (SMILE) that covers four SM platforms and eleven tasks. Finally, we show that learning a tokenizer and pretraining on a mix of social media and conventional language yields an LM that outperforms the best similar-sized alternative by 4.2 points on the overall SMILE score. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Hierarchical Neural Coding for Controllable CAD Model Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00149  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel generative model for Computer Aided Design (CAD) that 1) represents high-level design concepts of a CAD model as a three-level hierarchical tree of neural codes, from global part arrangement down to local curve geometry; and 2) controls the generation or completion of CAD models by specifying the target design using a code tree. Concretely, a novel variant of a vector quantized VAE with "masked skip connection" extracts design variations as neural codebooks at three levels. Two-stage cascaded auto-regressive transformers learn to generate code trees from incomplete CAD models and then complete CAD models following the intended design. Extensive experiments demonstrate superior performance on conventional tasks such as random generation while enabling novel interaction capabilities on conditional generation tasks. The code is available at https://github.com/samxuxiang/hnc-cad. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Large Language Models (GPT) for automating feedback on programming  assignments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00150  
**Abstract:** Addressing the challenge of generating personalized feedback for programming assignments is demanding due to several factors, like the complexity of code syntax or different ways to correctly solve a task. In this experimental study, we automated the process of feedback generation by employing OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model to generate personalized hints for students solving programming assignments on an automated assessment platform. Students rated the usefulness of GPT-generated hints positively. The experimental group (with GPT hints enabled) relied less on the platform's regular feedback but performed better in terms of percentage of successful submissions across consecutive attempts for tasks, where GPT hints were enabled. For tasks where the GPT feedback was made unavailable, the experimental group needed significantly less time to solve assignments. Furthermore, when GPT hints were unavailable, students in the experimental condition were initially less likely to solve the assignment correctly. This suggests potential over-reliance on GPT-generated feedback. However, students in the experimental condition were able to correct reasonably rapidly, reaching the same percentage correct after seven submission attempts. The availability of GPT hints did not significantly impact students' affective state. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** FFPDG: Fast, Fair and Private Data Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00161  
**Abstract:** Generative modeling has been used frequently in synthetic data generation. Fairness and privacy are two big concerns for synthetic data. Although Recent GAN [\cite{goodfellow2014generative}] based methods show good results in preserving privacy, the generated data may be more biased. At the same time, these methods require high computation resources. In this work, we design a fast, fair, flexible and private data generation method. We show the effectiveness of our method theoretically and empirically. We show that models trained on data generated by the proposed method can perform well (in inference stage) on real application scenarios. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Influence maximization on temporal networks: a review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00181  
**Abstract:** Influence maximization (IM) is an important topic in network science where a small seed set is chosen to maximize the spread of influence on a network. Recently, this problem has attracted attention on temporal networks where the network structure changes with time. IM on such dynamically varying networks is the topic of this review. We first categorize methods into two main paradigms: single and multiple seeding. In single seeding, nodes activate at the beginning of the diffusion process, and most methods either efficiently estimate the influence spread and select nodes with a greedy algorithm, or use a node-ranking heuristic. Nodes activate at different time points in the multiple seeding problem, via either sequential seeding, maintenance seeding or node probing paradigms. Throughout this review, we give special attention to deploying these algorithms in practice while also discussing existing solutions for real-world applications. We conclude by sharing important future research directions and challenges. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** How far is Language Model from 100% Few-shot Named Entity Recognition in  Medical Domain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00186  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in language models (LMs) have led to the emergence of powerful models such as Small LMs (e.g., T5) and Large LMs (e.g., GPT-4). These models have demonstrated exceptional capabilities across a wide range of tasks, such as name entity recognition (NER) in the general domain. (We define SLMs as pre-trained models with fewer parameters compared to models like GPT-3/3.5/4, such as T5, BERT, and others.) Nevertheless, their efficacy in the medical section remains uncertain and the performance of medical NER always needs high accuracy because of the particularity of the field. This paper aims to provide a thorough investigation to compare the performance of LMs in medical few-shot NER and answer How far is LMs from 100\% Few-shot NER in Medical Domain, and moreover to explore an effective entity recognizer to help improve the NER performance. Based on our extensive experiments conducted on 16 NER models spanning from 2018 to 2023, our findings clearly indicate that LLMs outperform SLMs in few-shot medical NER tasks, given the presence of suitable examples and appropriate logical frameworks. Despite the overall superiority of LLMs in few-shot medical NER tasks, it is important to note that they still encounter some challenges, such as misidentification, wrong template prediction, etc. Building on previous findings, we introduce a simple and effective method called \textsc{RT} (Retrieving and Thinking), which serves as retrievers, finding relevant examples, and as thinkers, employing a step-by-step reasoning process. Experimental results show that our proposed \textsc{RT} framework significantly outperforms the strong open baselines on the two open medical benchmark datasets 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Coordination of DERs for Grid Reliability via Day-ahead Demand-Supply  Power Bounds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00188  
**Abstract:** A previous study has shown that coordinating DERs to protect the distribution grid can significantly reduce the infrastructure upgrades needed to address future increases in DER and electrification penetrations. Implementing such coordination in the real world, however, is challenging due the temporal and spatial uncertainties about the loads and renewable generation, smart meter and network delays, incomplete information about the grid, different consumer objectives and privacy constraints, and scalability of the coordination scheme. This paper describes a day-ahead 2-layer DER coordination scheme that addresses these challenges. A global controller uses historical load data to compute day-ahead hourly demand upper and lower bounds for each consumer node. It then solves a largest volume axis-aligned box optimization problem to determine corresponding supply power bounds which if followed, ensures grid reliability. A local controller at each consumer node then determines the DER power injections which satisfy the consumer's objectives while obeying its supply bounds. Simulation results demonstrate, for example, that this scheme can capture 62% of the reduction in transformer violations achievable by the perfect-foresight centralized controller used in the aforementioned previous study. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** General Part Assembly Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00206  
**Abstract:** Most successes in autonomous robotic assembly have been restricted to single target or category. We propose to investigate general part assembly, the task of creating novel target assemblies with unseen part shapes. To tackle the planning of general part assembly, we present General Part Assembly Transformer (GPAT), a transformer based model architecture that accurately predicts part poses by inferring how each part shape corresponds to the target shape. Our experiments on both 3D CAD models and real-world scans demonstrate GPAT's generalization abilities to novel and diverse target and part shapes. Project website: https://general-part-assembly.github.io/ 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Re-Think and Re-Design Graph Neural Networks in Spaces of Continuous  Graph Diffusion Functionals  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00222  
**Abstract:** Graph neural networks (GNNs) are widely used in domains like social networks and biological systems. However, the locality assumption of GNNs, which limits information exchange to neighboring nodes, hampers their ability to capture long-range dependencies and global patterns in graphs. To address this, we propose a new inductive bias based on variational analysis, drawing inspiration from the Brachistochrone problem. Our framework establishes a mapping between discrete GNN models and continuous diffusion functionals. This enables the design of application-specific objective functions in the continuous domain and the construction of discrete deep models with mathematical guarantees. To tackle over-smoothing in GNNs, we analyze the existing layer-by-layer graph embedding models and identify that they are equivalent to l2-norm integral functionals of graph gradients, which cause over-smoothing. Similar to edge-preserving filters in image denoising, we introduce total variation (TV) to align the graph diffusion pattern with global community topologies. Additionally, we devise a selective mechanism to address the trade-off between model depth and over-smoothing, which can be easily integrated into existing GNNs. Furthermore, we propose a novel generative adversarial network (GAN) that predicts spreading flows in graphs through a neural transport equation. To mitigate vanishing flows, we customize the objective function to minimize transportation within each community while maximizing inter-community flows. Our GNN models achieve state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on popular graph learning benchmarks such as Cora, Citeseer, and Pubmed. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Constrained Local Approximate Ideal Restriction for Advection-Diffusion  Problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00229  
**Abstract:** This paper focuses on developing a reduction-based algebraic multigrid method that is suitable for solving general (non)symmetric linear systems and is naturally robust from pure advection to pure diffusion. Initial motivation comes from a new reduction-based algebraic multigrid (AMG) approach, $\ell$AIR (local approximate ideal restriction), that was developed for solving advection-dominated problems. Though this new solver is very effective in the advection dominated regime, its performance degrades in cases where diffusion becomes dominant. This is consistent with the fact that in general, reduction-based AMG methods tend to suffer from growth in complexity and/or convergence rates as the problem size is increased, especially for diffusion dominated problems in two or three dimensions. Motivated by the success of $\ell$AIR in the advective regime, our aim in this paper is to generalize the AIR framework with the goal of improving the performance of the solver in diffusion dominated regimes. To do so, we propose a novel way to combine mode constraints as used commonly in energy minimization AMG methods with the local approximation of ideal operators used in $\ell$AIR. The resulting constrained $\ell$AIR (C$\ell$AIR) algorithm is able to achieve fast scalable convergence on advective and diffusive problems. In addition, it is able to achieve standard low complexity hierarchies in the diffusive regime through aggressive coarsening, something that has been previously difficult for reduction-based methods. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** VesselMorph: Domain-Generalized Retinal Vessel Segmentation via  Shape-Aware Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00240  
**Abstract:** Due to the absence of a single standardized imaging protocol, domain shift between data acquired from different sites is an inherent property of medical images and has become a major obstacle for large-scale deployment of learning-based algorithms. For retinal vessel images, domain shift usually presents as the variation of intensity, contrast and resolution, while the basic tubular shape of vessels remains unaffected. Thus, taking advantage of such domain-invariant morphological features can greatly improve the generalizability of deep models. In this study, we propose a method named VesselMorph which generalizes the 2D retinal vessel segmentation task by synthesizing a shape-aware representation. Inspired by the traditional Frangi filter and the diffusion tensor imaging literature, we introduce a Hessian-based bipolar tensor field to depict the morphology of the vessels so that the shape information is taken into account. We map the intensity image and the tensor field to a latent space for feature extraction. Then we fuse the two latent representations via a weight-balancing trick and feed the result to a segmentation network. We evaluate on six public datasets of fundus and OCT angiography images from diverse patient populations. VesselMorph achieves superior generalization performance compared with competing methods in different domain shift scenarios. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Self-Supervised Query Reformulation for Code Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00267  
**Abstract:** Automatic query reformulation is a widely utilized technology for enriching user requirements and enhancing the outcomes of code search. It can be conceptualized as a machine translation task, wherein the objective is to rephrase a given query into a more comprehensive alternative. While showing promising results, training such a model typically requires a large parallel corpus of query pairs (i.e., the original query and a reformulated query) that are confidential and unpublished by online code search engines. This restricts its practicality in software development processes. In this paper, we propose SSQR, a self-supervised query reformulation method that does not rely on any parallel query corpus. Inspired by pre-trained models, SSQR treats query reformulation as a masked language modeling task conducted on an extensive unannotated corpus of queries. SSQR extends T5 (a sequence-to-sequence model based on Transformer) with a new pre-training objective named corrupted query completion (CQC), which randomly masks words within a complete query and trains T5 to predict the masked content. Subsequently, for a given query to be reformulated, SSQR identifies potential locations for expansion and leverages the pre-trained T5 model to generate appropriate content to fill these gaps. The selection of expansions is then based on the information gain associated with each candidate. Evaluation results demonstrate that SSQR outperforms unsupervised baselines significantly and achieves competitive performance compared to supervised methods. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Common Knowledge Learning for Generating Transferable Adversarial  Examples  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00274  
**Abstract:** This paper focuses on an important type of black-box attacks, i.e., transfer-based adversarial attacks, where the adversary generates adversarial examples by a substitute (source) model and utilize them to attack an unseen target model, without knowing its information. Existing methods tend to give unsatisfactory adversarial transferability when the source and target models are from different types of DNN architectures (e.g. ResNet-18 and Swin Transformer). In this paper, we observe that the above phenomenon is induced by the output inconsistency problem. To alleviate this problem while effectively utilizing the existing DNN models, we propose a common knowledge learning (CKL) framework to learn better network weights to generate adversarial examples with better transferability, under fixed network architectures. Specifically, to reduce the model-specific features and obtain better output distributions, we construct a multi-teacher framework, where the knowledge is distilled from different teacher architectures into one student network. By considering that the gradient of input is usually utilized to generated adversarial examples, we impose constraints on the gradients between the student and teacher models, to further alleviate the output inconsistency problem and enhance the adversarial transferability. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed work can significantly improve the adversarial transferability. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** AutoST: Training-free Neural Architecture Search for Spiking  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00293  
**Abstract:** Spiking Transformers have gained considerable attention because they achieve both the energy efficiency of Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) and the high capacity of Transformers. However, the existing Spiking Transformer architectures, derived from ANNs, exhibit a notable architectural gap, resulting in suboptimal performance compared to their ANN counterparts. Traditional approaches to discovering optimal architectures primarily rely on either manual procedures, which are time-consuming, or Neural Architecture Search (NAS) methods, which are usually expensive in terms of memory footprints and computation time. To address these limitations, we introduce AutoST, a training-free NAS method for Spiking Transformers, to rapidly identify high-performance and energy-efficient Spiking Transformer architectures. Unlike existing training-free NAS methods, which struggle with the non-differentiability and high sparsity inherent in SNNs, we propose to utilize Floating-Point Operations (FLOPs) as a performance metric, which is independent of model computations and training dynamics, leading to a stronger correlation with performance. Moreover, to enable the search for energy-efficient architectures, we leverage activation patterns during initialization to estimate the energy consumption of Spiking Transformers. Our extensive experiments show that AutoST models outperform state-of-the-art manually or automatically designed SNN architectures on static and neuromorphic datasets, while significantly reducing energy consumption. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** PM-DETR: Domain Adaptive Prompt Memory for Object Detection with  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00313  
**Abstract:** The Transformer-based detectors (i.e., DETR) have demonstrated impressive performance on end-to-end object detection. However, transferring DETR to different data distributions may lead to a significant performance degradation. Existing adaptation techniques focus on model-based approaches, which aim to leverage feature alignment to narrow the distribution shift between different domains. In this study, we propose a hierarchical Prompt Domain Memory (PDM) for adapting detection transformers to different distributions. PDM comprehensively leverages the prompt memory to extract domain-specific knowledge and explicitly constructs a long-term memory space for the data distribution, which represents better domain diversity compared to existing methods. Specifically, each prompt and its corresponding distribution value are paired in the memory space, and we inject top M distribution-similar prompts into the input and multi-level embeddings of DETR. Additionally, we introduce the Prompt Memory Alignment (PMA) to reduce the discrepancy between the source and target domains by fully leveraging the domain-specific knowledge extracted from the prompt domain memory. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art domain adaptive object detection methods on three benchmarks, including scene, synthetic to real, and weather adaptation. Codes will be released. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Variation-aware Vision Transformer Quantization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00331  
**Abstract:** Despite the remarkable performance of Vision Transformers (ViTs) in various visual tasks, the expanding computation and model size of ViTs have increased the demand for improved efficiency during training and inference. To address the heavy computation and parameter drawbacks, quantization is frequently studied in the community as a representative model compression technique and has seen extensive use on CNNs. However, due to the unique properties of CNNs and ViTs, the quantization applications on ViTs are still limited and underexplored. In this paper, we identify the difficulty of ViT quantization on its unique variation behaviors, which differ from traditional CNN architectures. The variations indicate the magnitude of the parameter fluctuations and can also measure outlier conditions. Moreover, the variation behaviors reflect the various sensitivities to the quantization of each module. The quantization sensitivity analysis and comparison of ViTs with CNNs help us locate the underlying differences in variations. We also find that the variations in ViTs cause training oscillations, bringing instability during quantization-aware training (QAT). Correspondingly, we solve the variation problem with an efficient knowledge-distillation-based variation-aware quantization method. The multi-crop knowledge distillation scheme can accelerate and stabilize the training and alleviate the variation's influence during QAT. We also proposed a module-dependent quantization scheme and a variation-aware regularization term to suppress the oscillation of weights. On ImageNet-1K, we obtain a 77.66% Top-1 accuracy on the extremely low-bit scenario of 2-bit Swin-T, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art quantized model by 3.35%. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Spatial-Temporal Enhanced Transformer Towards Multi-Frame 3D Object  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00347  
**Abstract:** The Detection Transformer (DETR) has revolutionized the design of CNN-based object detection systems, showcasing impressive performance. However, its potential in the domain of multi-frame 3D object detection remains largely unexplored. In this paper, we present STEMD, a novel end-to-end framework for multi-frame 3D object detection based on the DETR-like paradigm. Our approach treats multi-frame 3D object detection as a sequence-to-sequence task and effectively captures spatial-temporal dependencies at both the feature and query levels. To model the inter-object spatial interaction and complex temporal dependencies, we introduce the spatial-temporal graph attention network. This network represents queries as nodes in a graph and enables effective modeling of object interactions within a social context. In addition, to solve the problem of missing hard cases in the proposed output of the encoder in the current frame, we incorporate the output of the previous frame to initialize the query input of the decoder. Moreover, we tackle the issue of redundant detection results, where the model generates numerous overlapping boxes from similar queries. To mitigate this, we introduce an IoU regularization term in the loss function. This term aids in distinguishing between queries matched with the ground-truth box and queries that are similar but unmatched during the refinement process, leading to reduced redundancy and more accurate detections. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in handling challenging scenarios, while incurring only a minor additional computational overhead. The code will be available at \url{https://github.com/Eaphan/STEMD}. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Lottery and Sprint: Generate a Board Game with Design Sprint Method on  Auto-GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00348  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a novel approach using the Auto GPT system alongside Design Sprint methodology to facilitate board game creation for inexperienced users. We introduce the implementation of Auto GPT for generating diverse board games and the subsequent optimization process through a customized Design Sprint. A user study is conducted to investigate the playability and enjoyment of the generated games, revealing both successes and challenges in employing systems like Auto GPT for board game design. Insights and future research directions are proposed to overcome identified limitations and enhance computational-driven game creation. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Learning Content-enhanced Mask Transformer for Domain Generalized  Urban-Scene Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00371  
**Abstract:** Domain-generalized urban-scene semantic segmentation (USSS) aims to learn generalized semantic predictions across diverse urban-scene styles. Unlike domain gap challenges, USSS is unique in that the semantic categories are often similar in different urban scenes, while the styles can vary significantly due to changes in urban landscapes, weather conditions, lighting, and other factors. Existing approaches typically rely on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to learn the content of urban scenes. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Residual-based attention and connection to information bottleneck theory  in PINNs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00379  
**Abstract:** Driven by the need for more efficient and seamless integration of physical models and data, physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) have seen a surge of interest in recent years. However, ensuring the reliability of their convergence and accuracy remains a challenge. In this work, we propose an efficient, gradient-less weighting scheme for PINNs, that accelerates the convergence of dynamic or static systems. This simple yet effective attention mechanism is a function of the evolving cumulative residuals and aims to make the optimizer aware of problematic regions at no extra computational cost or adversarial learning. We illustrate that this general method consistently achieves a relative $L^{2}$ error of the order of $10^{-5}$ using standard optimizers on typical benchmark cases of the literature. Furthermore, by investigating the evolution of weights during training, we identify two distinct learning phases reminiscent of the fitting and diffusion phases proposed by the information bottleneck (IB) theory. Subsequent gradient analysis supports this hypothesis by aligning the transition from high to low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) with the transition from fitting to diffusion regimes of the adopted weights. This novel correlation between PINNs and IB theory could open future possibilities for understanding the underlying mechanisms behind the training and stability of PINNs and, more broadly, of neural operators. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Effective Matching of Patients to Clinical Trials using Entity  Extraction and Neural Re-ranking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00381  
**Abstract:** Clinical trials (CTs) often fail due to inadequate patient recruitment. This paper tackles the challenges of CT retrieval by presenting an approach that addresses the patient-to-trials paradigm. Our approach involves two key components in a pipeline-based model: (i) a data enrichment technique for enhancing both queries and documents during the first retrieval stage, and (ii) a novel re-ranking schema that uses a Transformer network in a setup adapted to this task by leveraging the structure of the CT documents. We use named entity recognition and negation detection in both patient description and the eligibility section of CTs. We further classify patient descriptions and CT eligibility criteria into current, past, and family medical conditions. This extracted information is used to boost the importance of disease and drug mentions in both query and index for lexical retrieval. Furthermore, we propose a two-step training schema for the Transformer network used to re-rank the results from the lexical retrieval. The first step focuses on matching patient information with the descriptive sections of trials, while the second step aims to determine eligibility by matching patient information with the criteria section. Our findings indicate that the inclusion criteria section of the CT has a great influence on the relevance score in lexical models, and that the enrichment techniques for queries and documents improve the retrieval of relevant trials. The re-ranking strategy, based on our training schema, consistently enhances CT retrieval and shows improved performance by 15\% in terms of precision at retrieving eligible trials. The results of our experiments suggest the benefit of making use of extracted entities. Moreover, our proposed re-ranking schema shows promising effectiveness compared to larger neural models, even with limited training data. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** CasTGAN: Cascaded Generative Adversarial Network for Realistic Tabular  Data Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00384  
**Abstract:** Generative adversarial networks (GANs) have drawn considerable attention in recent years for their proven capability in generating synthetic data which can be utilized for multiple purposes. While GANs have demonstrated tremendous successes in producing synthetic data samples that replicate the dynamics of the original datasets, the validity of the synthetic data and the underlying privacy concerns represent major challenges which are not sufficiently addressed. In this work, we design a cascaded tabular GAN framework (CasTGAN) for generating realistic tabular data with a specific focus on the validity of the output. In this context, validity refers to the the dependency between features that can be found in the real data, but is typically misrepresented by traditional generative models. Our key idea entails that employing a cascaded architecture in which a dedicated generator samples each feature, the synthetic output becomes more representative of the real data. Our experimental results demonstrate that our model well captures the constraints and the correlations between the features of the real data, especially the high dimensional datasets. Furthermore, we evaluate the risk of white-box privacy attacks on our model and subsequently show that applying some perturbations to the auxiliary learners in CasTGAN increases the overall robustness of our model against targeted attacks. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** PersonaGen: A Tool for Generating Personas from User Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00390  
**Abstract:** Personas are crucial in software development processes, particularly in agile settings. However, no effective tools are available for generating personas from user feedback in agile software development processes. To fill this gap, we propose a novel tool that uses the GPT-4 model and knowledge graph to generate persona templates from well-processed user feedback, facilitating requirement analysis in agile software development processes. We developed a tool called PersonaGen. We evaluated PersonaGen using qualitative feedback from a small-scale user study involving student software projects. The results were mixed, highlighting challenges in persona-based educational practice and addressing non-functional requirements. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** ProbVLM: Probabilistic Adapter for Frozen Vison-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00398  
**Abstract:** Large-scale vision-language models (VLMs) like CLIP successfully find correspondences between images and text. Through the standard deterministic mapping process, an image or a text sample is mapped to a single vector in the embedding space. This is problematic: as multiple samples (images or text) can abstract the same concept in the physical world, deterministic embeddings do not reflect the inherent ambiguity in the embedding space. We propose ProbVLM, a probabilistic adapter that estimates probability distributions for the embeddings of pre-trained VLMs via inter/intra-modal alignment in a post-hoc manner without needing large-scale datasets or computing. On four challenging datasets, i.e., COCO, Flickr, CUB, and Oxford-flowers, we estimate the multi-modal embedding uncertainties for two VLMs, i.e., CLIP and BLIP, quantify the calibration of embedding uncertainties in retrieval tasks and show that ProbVLM outperforms other methods. Furthermore, we propose active learning and model selection as two real-world downstream tasks for VLMs and show that the estimated uncertainty aids both tasks. Lastly, we present a novel technique for visualizing the embedding distributions using a large-scale pre-trained latent diffusion model. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** WavePaint: Resource-efficient Token-mixer for Self-supervised Inpainting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00407  
**Abstract:** Image inpainting, which refers to the synthesis of missing regions in an image, can help restore occluded or degraded areas and also serve as a precursor task for self-supervision. The current state-of-the-art models for image inpainting are computationally heavy as they are based on transformer or CNN backbones that are trained in adversarial or diffusion settings. This paper diverges from vision transformers by using a computationally-efficient WaveMix-based fully convolutional architecture -- WavePaint. It uses a 2D-discrete wavelet transform (DWT) for spatial and multi-resolution token-mixing along with convolutional layers. The proposed model outperforms the current state-of-the-art models for image inpainting on reconstruction quality while also using less than half the parameter count and considerably lower training and evaluation times. Our model even outperforms current GAN-based architectures in CelebA-HQ dataset without using an adversarially trainable discriminator. Our work suggests that neural architectures that are modeled after natural image priors require fewer parameters and computations to achieve generalization comparable to transformers. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** WaveMixSR: A Resource-efficient Neural Network for Image  Super-resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00430  
**Abstract:** Image super-resolution research recently been dominated by transformer models which need higher computational resources than CNNs due to the quadratic complexity of self-attention. We propose a new neural network -- WaveMixSR -- for image super-resolution based on WaveMix architecture which uses a 2D-discrete wavelet transform for spatial token-mixing. Unlike transformer-based models, WaveMixSR does not unroll the image as a sequence of pixels/patches. It uses the inductive bias of convolutions along with the lossless token-mixing property of wavelet transform to achieve higher performance while requiring fewer resources and training data. We compare the performance of our network with other state-of-the-art methods for image super-resolution. Our experiments show that WaveMixSR achieves competitive performance in all datasets and reaches state-of-the-art performance in the BSD100 dataset on multiple super-resolution tasks. Our model is able to achieve this performance using less training data and computational resources while maintaining high parameter efficiency compared to current state-of-the-art models. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Conformer LLMs -- Convolution Augmented Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00461  
**Abstract:** This work builds together two popular blocks of neural architecture, namely convolutional layers and Transformers, for large language models (LLMs). Non-causal conformers are used ubiquitously in automatic speech recognition. This work aims to adapt these architectures in a causal setup for training LLMs. Transformers decoders effectively capture long-range dependencies over several modalities and form a core backbone of modern advancements in machine learning. Convolutional architectures have been popular in extracting features in domains such as raw 1-D signals, speech, and images, to name a few. In this paper, by combining local and global dependencies over latent representations using causal convolutional filters and Transformer, we achieve significant gains in performance. This work showcases a robust speech architecture that can be integrated and adapted in a causal setup beyond speech applications for large-scale language modeling. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Human-to-Human Interaction Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00464  
**Abstract:** A comprehensive understanding of interested human-to-human interactions in video streams, such as queuing, handshaking, fighting and chasing, is of immense importance to the surveillance of public security in regions like campuses, squares and parks. Different from conventional human interaction recognition, which uses choreographed videos as inputs, neglects concurrent interactive groups, and performs detection and recognition in separate stages, we introduce a new task named human-to-human interaction detection (HID). HID devotes to detecting subjects, recognizing person-wise actions, and grouping people according to their interactive relations, in one model. First, based on the popular AVA dataset created for action detection, we establish a new HID benchmark, termed AVA-Interaction (AVA-I), by adding annotations on interactive relations in a frame-by-frame manner. AVA-I consists of 85,254 frames and 86,338 interactive groups, and each image includes up to 4 concurrent interactive groups. Second, we present a novel baseline approach SaMFormer for HID, containing a visual feature extractor, a split stage which leverages a Transformer-based model to decode action instances and interactive groups, and a merging stage which reconstructs the relationship between instances and groups. All SaMFormer components are jointly trained in an end-to-end manner. Extensive experiments on AVA-I validate the superiority of SaMFormer over representative methods. The dataset and code will be made public to encourage more follow-up studies. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** MissDiff: Training Diffusion Models on Tabular Data with Missing Values  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00467  
**Abstract:** The diffusion model has shown remarkable performance in modeling data distributions and synthesizing data. However, the vanilla diffusion model requires complete or fully observed data for training. Incomplete data is a common issue in various real-world applications, including healthcare and finance, particularly when dealing with tabular datasets. This work presents a unified and principled diffusion-based framework for learning from data with missing values under various missing mechanisms. We first observe that the widely adopted "impute-then-generate" pipeline may lead to a biased learning objective. Then we propose to mask the regression loss of Denoising Score Matching in the training phase. We prove the proposed method is consistent in learning the score of data distributions, and the proposed training objective serves as an upper bound for the negative likelihood in certain cases. The proposed framework is evaluated on multiple tabular datasets using realistic and efficacious metrics and is demonstrated to outperform state-of-the-art diffusion model on tabular data with "impute-then-generate" pipeline by a large margin. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Seeing is not Believing: An Identity Hider for Human Vision Privacy  Protection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00481  
**Abstract:** Massive captured face images are stored in the database for the identification of individuals. However, the stored images can be observed intentionally or unintentionally by data managers, which is not at the will of individuals and may cause privacy violations. Existing protection works only slightly change the visual content of the face while maintaining the utility of identification, making it susceptible to the inference of the true identity by human vision. In this paper, we propose an identity hider that enables significant visual content change for human vision while preserving high identifiability for face recognizers. Firstly, the identity hider generates a virtual face with new visual content by manipulating the latent space in StyleGAN2. In particular, the virtual face has the same irrelevant attributes as the original face, e.g., pose and expression. Secondly, the visual content of the virtual face is transferred into the original face and then the background is replaced with the original one. In addition, the identity hider has strong transferability, which ensures an arbitrary face recognizer can achieve satisfactory accuracy. Adequate experiments show that the proposed identity hider achieves excellent performance on privacy protection and identifiability preservation. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** LEDITS: Real Image Editing with DDPM Inversion and Semantic Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00522  
**Abstract:** Recent large-scale text-guided diffusion models provide powerful image-generation capabilities. Currently, a significant effort is given to enable the modification of these images using text only as means to offer intuitive and versatile editing. However, editing proves to be difficult for these generative models due to the inherent nature of editing techniques, which involves preserving certain content from the original image. Conversely, in text-based models, even minor modifications to the text prompt frequently result in an entirely distinct result, making attaining one-shot generation that accurately corresponds to the users intent exceedingly challenging. In addition, to edit a real image using these state-of-the-art tools, one must first invert the image into the pre-trained models domain - adding another factor affecting the edit quality, as well as latency. In this exploratory report, we propose LEDITS - a combined lightweight approach for real-image editing, incorporating the Edit Friendly DDPM inversion technique with Semantic Guidance, thus extending Semantic Guidance to real image editing, while harnessing the editing capabilities of DDPM inversion as well. This approach achieves versatile edits, both subtle and extensive as well as alterations in composition and style, while requiring no optimization nor extensions to the architecture. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** TensorGPT: Efficient Compression of the Embedding Layer in LLMs based on  the Tensor-Train Decomposition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00526  
**Abstract:** High-dimensional token embeddings underpin Large Language Models (LLMs), as they can capture subtle semantic information and significantly enhance the modelling of complex language patterns. However, the associated high dimensionality also introduces considerable model parameters, and a prohibitively high model storage. To address this issue, this work proposes an approach based on the Tensor-Train Decomposition (TTD), where each token embedding is treated as a Matrix Product State (MPS) that can be efficiently computed in a distributed manner. The experimental results on GPT-2 demonstrate that, through our approach, the embedding layer can be compressed by a factor of up to 38.40 times, and when the compression factor is 3.31 times, even produced a better performance than the original GPT-2 model. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Referring Video Object Segmentation with Inter-Frame Interaction and  Cross-Modal Correlation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00536  
**Abstract:** Referring video object segmentation (RVOS) aims to segment the target object in a video sequence described by a language expression. Typical query-based methods process the video sequence in a frame-independent manner to reduce the high computational cost, which however affects the performance due to the lack of inter-frame interaction for temporal coherence modeling and spatio-temporal representation learning of the referred object. Besides, they directly adopt the raw and high-level sentence feature as the language queries to decode the visual features, where the weak correlation between visual and linguistic features also increases the difficulty of decoding the target information and limits the performance of the model. In this paper, we proposes a novel RVOS framework, dubbed IFIRVOS, to address these issues. Specifically, we design a plug-and-play inter-frame interaction module in the Transformer decoder to efficiently learn the spatio-temporal features of the referred object, so as to decode the object information in the video sequence more precisely and generate more accurate segmentation results. Moreover, we devise the vision-language interaction module before the multimodal Transformer to enhance the correlation between the visual and linguistic features, thus facilitating the process of decoding object information from visual features by language queries in Transformer decoder and improving the segmentation performance. Extensive experimental results on three benchmarks validate the superiority of our IFIRVOS over state-of-the-art methods and the effectiveness of our proposed modules. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Bidirectional Temporal Diffusion Model for Temporally Consistent Human  Animation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00574  
**Abstract:** We introduce a method to generate temporally coherent human animation from a single image, a video, or a random noise. This problem has been formulated as modeling of an auto-regressive generation, i.e., to regress past frames to decode future frames. However, such unidirectional generation is highly prone to motion drifting over time, generating unrealistic human animation with significant artifacts such as appearance distortion. We claim that bidirectional temporal modeling enforces temporal coherence on a generative network by largely suppressing the motion ambiguity of human appearance. To prove our claim, we design a novel human animation framework using a denoising diffusion model: a neural network learns to generate the image of a person by denoising temporal Gaussian noises whose intermediate results are cross-conditioned bidirectionally between consecutive frames. In the experiments, our method demonstrates strong performance compared to existing unidirectional approaches with realistic temporal coherence 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** ClipSitu: Effectively Leveraging CLIP for Conditional Predictions in  Situation Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00586  
**Abstract:** Situation Recognition is the task of generating a structured summary of what is happening in an image using an activity verb and the semantic roles played by actors and objects. In this task, the same activity verb can describe a diverse set of situations as well as the same actor or object category can play a diverse set of semantic roles depending on the situation depicted in the image. Hence model needs to understand the context of the image and the visual-linguistic meaning of semantic roles. Therefore, we leverage the CLIP foundational model that has learned the context of images via language descriptions. We show that deeper-and-wider multi-layer perceptron (MLP) blocks obtain noteworthy results for the situation recognition task by using CLIP image and text embedding features and it even outperforms the state-of-the-art CoFormer, a Transformer-based model, thanks to the external implicit visual-linguistic knowledge encapsulated by CLIP and the expressive power of modern MLP block designs. Motivated by this, we design a cross-attention-based Transformer using CLIP visual tokens that model the relation between textual roles and visual entities. Our cross-attention-based Transformer known as ClipSitu XTF outperforms existing state-of-the-art by a large margin of 14.1% on semantic role labelling (value) for top-1 accuracy using imSitu dataset. We will make the code publicly available. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** ChatGPT vs SBST: A Comparative Assessment of Unit Test Suite Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00588  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional success in a wide range of general domain tasks, such as question answering and following instructions. Moreover, LLMs have shown potential in various software engineering applications. In this study, we present a systematic comparison of test suites generated by the ChatGPT LLM and the state-of-the-art SBST tool EvoSuite. Our comparison is based on several critical factors, including correctness, readability, code coverage, and bug detection capability. By highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs (specifically ChatGPT) in generating unit test cases compared to EvoSuite, this work provides valuable insights into the performance of LLMs in solving software engineering problems. Overall, our findings underscore the potential of LLMs in software engineering and pave the way for further research in this area. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** BioCPT: Contrastive Pre-trained Transformers with Large-scale PubMed  Search Logs for Zero-shot Biomedical Information Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00589  
**Abstract:** Information retrieval (IR) is essential in biomedical knowledge acquisition and clinical decision support. While recent progress has shown that language model encoders perform better semantic retrieval, training such models requires abundant query-article annotations that are difficult to obtain in biomedicine. As a result, most biomedical IR systems only conduct lexical matching. In response, we introduce BioCPT, a first-of-its-kind Contrastively Pre-trained Transformer model for zero-shot biomedical IR. To train BioCPT, we collected an unprecedented scale of 255 million user click logs from PubMed. With such data, we use contrastive learning to train a pair of closely-integrated retriever and re-ranker. Experimental results show that BioCPT sets new state-of-the-art performance on five biomedical IR tasks, outperforming various baselines including much larger models such as GPT-3-sized cpt-text-XL. In addition, BioCPT also generates better biomedical article and sentence representations for semantic evaluations. As such, BioCPT can be readily applied to various real-world biomedical IR tasks. BioCPT API and code are publicly available at https://github.com/ncbi/BioCPT. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** LLM4CBI: Taming LLMs to Generate Effective Test Programs for Compiler  Bug Isolation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00593  
**Abstract:** Compiler bugs pose a significant threat to safety-critical applications, and promptly and effectively isolating these bugs is crucial for assuring the quality of compilers. However, the limited availability of debugging information on reported bugs complicates the compiler bug isolation task. Existing compiler bug isolation approaches typically convert the problem into a test program mutation problem, but they are still limited by ineffective mutation strategies or high human effort requirements. Drawing inspiration from the recent progress of pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, in code generation, we propose a new approach named LLM4CBI to tame LLMs to generate effective test programs for compiler bug isolation. However, using LLMs directly for test program mutation may not yield the desired results due to the challenges associated with formulating precise prompts and selecting specialized prompts. To overcome the challenges, three new components are designed in LLM4CBI. (1) LLM4CBI utilizes a program complexity-guided prompt production component, which leverages data and control flow analysis to identify the most valuable variables and locations in programs for mutation. (2) LLM4CBI employs a memorized prompt selection component, which adopts reinforcement learning to select specialized prompts for mutating test programs continuously. (3) A test program validation component is proposed to select specialized feedback prompts to avoid repeating the same mistakes during the mutation process. Compared with the state-of-the-art approaches (DiWi and RecBi), our evaluation demonstrates the advantages of LLM4CBI: It isolates more bugs, ranging from 13.6% to 90.9% in various settings, than the other approaches. Additionally, we demonstrate that LLM4CBI is extensible, allowing for easy integration with other LLMs. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Solving Linear Inverse Problems Provably via Posterior Sampling with  Latent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00619  
**Abstract:** We present the first framework to solve linear inverse problems leveraging pre-trained latent diffusion models. Previously proposed algorithms (such as DPS and DDRM) only apply to pixel-space diffusion models. We theoretically analyze our algorithm showing provable sample recovery in a linear model setting. The algorithmic insight obtained from our analysis extends to more general settings often considered in practice. Experimentally, we outperform previously proposed posterior sampling algorithms in a wide variety of problems including random inpainting, block inpainting, denoising, deblurring, destriping, and super-resolution. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Variational Autoencoding Molecular Graphs with Denoising Diffusion  Probabilistic Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00623  
**Abstract:** In data-driven drug discovery, designing molecular descriptors is a very important task. Deep generative models such as variational autoencoders (VAEs) offer a potential solution by designing descriptors as probabilistic latent vectors derived from molecular structures. These models can be trained on large datasets, which have only molecular structures, and applied to transfer learning. Nevertheless, the approximate posterior distribution of the latent vectors of the usual VAE assumes a simple multivariate Gaussian distribution with zero covariance, which may limit the performance of representing the latent features. To overcome this limitation, we propose a novel molecular deep generative model that incorporates a hierarchical structure into the probabilistic latent vectors. We achieve this by a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM). We demonstrate that our model can design effective molecular latent vectors for molecular property prediction from some experiments by small datasets on physical properties and activity. The results highlight the superior prediction performance and robustness of our model compared to existing approaches. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Intra- & Extra-Source Exemplar-Based Style Synthesis for Improved Domain  Generalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00648  
**Abstract:** The generalization with respect to domain shifts, as they frequently appear in applications such as autonomous driving, is one of the remaining big challenges for deep learning models. Therefore, we propose an exemplar-based style synthesis pipeline to improve domain generalization in semantic segmentation. Our method is based on a novel masked noise encoder for StyleGAN2 inversion. The model learns to faithfully reconstruct the image, preserving its semantic layout through noise prediction. Using the proposed masked noise encoder to randomize style and content combinations in the training set, i.e., intra-source style augmentation (ISSA) effectively increases the diversity of training data and reduces spurious correlation. As a result, we achieve up to $12.4\%$ mIoU improvements on driving-scene semantic segmentation under different types of data shifts, i.e., changing geographic locations, adverse weather conditions, and day to night. ISSA is model-agnostic and straightforwardly applicable with CNNs and Transformers. It is also complementary to other domain generalization techniques, e.g., it improves the recent state-of-the-art solution RobustNet by $3\%$ mIoU in Cityscapes to Dark Z\"urich. In addition, we demonstrate the strong plug-n-play ability of the proposed style synthesis pipeline, which is readily usable for extra-source exemplars e.g., web-crawled images, without any retraining or fine-tuning. Moreover, we study a new use case to indicate neural network's generalization capability by building a stylized proxy validation set. This application has significant practical sense for selecting models to be deployed in the open-world environment. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/boschresearch/ISSA}. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** From ChatGPT to ThreatGPT: Impact of Generative AI in Cybersecurity and  Privacy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00691  
**Abstract:** Undoubtedly, the evolution of Generative AI (GenAI) models has been the highlight of digital transformation in the year 2022. As the different GenAI models like ChatGPT and Google Bard continue to foster their complexity and capability, it's critical to understand its consequences from a cybersecurity perspective. Several instances recently have demonstrated the use of GenAI tools in both the defensive and offensive side of cybersecurity, and focusing on the social, ethical and privacy implications this technology possesses. This research paper highlights the limitations, challenges, potential risks, and opportunities of GenAI in the domain of cybersecurity and privacy. The work presents the vulnerabilities of ChatGPT, which can be exploited by malicious users to exfiltrate malicious information bypassing the ethical constraints on the model. This paper demonstrates successful example attacks like Jailbreaks, reverse psychology, and prompt injection attacks on the ChatGPT. The paper also investigates how cyber offenders can use the GenAI tools in developing cyber attacks, and explore the scenarios where ChatGPT can be used by adversaries to create social engineering attacks, phishing attacks, automated hacking, attack payload generation, malware creation, and polymorphic malware. This paper then examines defense techniques and uses GenAI tools to improve security measures, including cyber defense automation, reporting, threat intelligence, secure code generation and detection, attack identification, developing ethical guidelines, incidence response plans, and malware detection. We will also discuss the social, legal, and ethical implications of ChatGPT. In conclusion, the paper highlights open challenges and future directions to make this GenAI secure, safe, trustworthy, and ethical as the community understands its cybersecurity impacts. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Guided Patch-Grouping Wavelet Transformer with Spatial Congruence for  Ultra-High Resolution Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00711  
**Abstract:** Most existing ultra-high resolution (UHR) segmentation methods always struggle in the dilemma of balancing memory cost and local characterization accuracy, which are both taken into account in our proposed Guided Patch-Grouping Wavelet Transformer (GPWFormer) that achieves impressive performances. In this work, GPWFormer is a Transformer ($\mathcal{T}$)-CNN ($\mathcal{C}$) mutual leaning framework, where $\mathcal{T}$ takes the whole UHR image as input and harvests both local details and fine-grained long-range contextual dependencies, while $\mathcal{C}$ takes downsampled image as input for learning the category-wise deep context. For the sake of high inference speed and low computation complexity, $\mathcal{T}$ partitions the original UHR image into patches and groups them dynamically, then learns the low-level local details with the lightweight multi-head Wavelet Transformer (WFormer) network. Meanwhile, the fine-grained long-range contextual dependencies are also captured during this process, since patches that are far away in the spatial domain can also be assigned to the same group. In addition, masks produced by $\mathcal{C}$ are utilized to guide the patch grouping process, providing a heuristics decision. Moreover, the congruence constraints between the two branches are also exploited to maintain the spatial consistency among the patches. Overall, we stack the multi-stage process in a pyramid way. Experiments show that GPWFormer outperforms the existing methods with significant improvements on five benchmark datasets. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** SSC3OD: Sparsely Supervised Collaborative 3D Object Detection from LiDAR  Point Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00717  
**Abstract:** Collaborative 3D object detection, with its improved interaction advantage among multiple agents, has been widely explored in autonomous driving. However, existing collaborative 3D object detectors in a fully supervised paradigm heavily rely on large-scale annotated 3D bounding boxes, which is labor-intensive and time-consuming. To tackle this issue, we propose a sparsely supervised collaborative 3D object detection framework SSC3OD, which only requires each agent to randomly label one object in the scene. Specifically, this model consists of two novel components, i.e., the pillar-based masked autoencoder (Pillar-MAE) and the instance mining module. The Pillar-MAE module aims to reason over high-level semantics in a self-supervised manner, and the instance mining module generates high-quality pseudo labels for collaborative detectors online. By introducing these simple yet effective mechanisms, the proposed SSC3OD can alleviate the adverse impacts of incomplete annotations. We generate sparse labels based on collaborative perception datasets to evaluate our method. Extensive experiments on three large-scale datasets reveal that our proposed SSC3OD can effectively improve the performance of sparsely supervised collaborative 3D object detectors. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Population Age Group Sensitivity for COVID-19 Infections with Deep  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00751  
**Abstract:** The COVID-19 pandemic has created unprecedented challenges for governments and healthcare systems worldwide, highlighting the critical importance of understanding the factors that contribute to virus transmission. This study aimed to identify the most influential age groups in COVID-19 infection rates at the US county level using the Modified Morris Method and deep learning for time series. Our approach involved training the state-of-the-art time-series model Temporal Fusion Transformer on different age groups as a static feature and the population vaccination status as the dynamic feature. We analyzed the impact of those age groups on COVID-19 infection rates by perturbing individual input features and ranked them based on their Morris sensitivity scores, which quantify their contribution to COVID-19 transmission rates. The findings are verified using ground truth data from the CDC and US Census, which provide the true infection rates for each age group. The results suggest that young adults were the most influential age group in COVID-19 transmission at the county level between March 1, 2020, and November 27, 2021. Using these results can inform public health policies and interventions, such as targeted vaccination strategies, to better control the spread of the virus. Our approach demonstrates the utility of feature sensitivity analysis in identifying critical factors contributing to COVID-19 transmission and can be applied in other public health domains. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** ImDiffusion: Imputed Diffusion Models for Multivariate Time Series  Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00754  
**Abstract:** Anomaly detection in multivariate time series data is of paramount importance for ensuring the efficient operation of large-scale systems across diverse domains. However, accurately detecting anomalies in such data poses significant challenges. Existing approaches, including forecasting and reconstruction-based methods, struggle to address these challenges effectively. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel anomaly detection framework named ImDiffusion, which combines time series imputation and diffusion models to achieve accurate and robust anomaly detection. The imputation-based approach employed by ImDiffusion leverages the information from neighboring values in the time series, enabling precise modeling of temporal and inter-correlated dependencies, reducing uncertainty in the data, thereby enhancing the robustness of the anomaly detection process. ImDiffusion further leverages diffusion models as time series imputers to accurately capturing complex dependencies. We leverage the step-by-step denoised outputs generated during the inference process to serve as valuable signals for anomaly prediction, resulting in improved accuracy and robustness of the detection process. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** DifFSS: Diffusion Model for Few-Shot Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00773  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have demonstrated excellent performance in image generation. Although various few-shot semantic segmentation (FSS) models with different network structures have been proposed, performance improvement has reached a bottleneck. This paper presents the first work to leverage the diffusion model for FSS task, called DifFSS. DifFSS, a novel FSS paradigm, can further improve the performance of the state-of-the-art FSS models by a large margin without modifying their network structure. Specifically, we utilize the powerful generation ability of diffusion models to generate diverse auxiliary support images by using the semantic mask, scribble or soft HED boundary of the support image as control conditions. This generation process simulates the variety within the class of the query image, such as color, texture variation, lighting, $etc$. As a result, FSS models can refer to more diverse support images, yielding more robust representations, thereby achieving a consistent improvement in segmentation performance. Extensive experiments on three publicly available datasets based on existing advanced FSS models demonstrate the effectiveness of the diffusion model for FSS task. Furthermore, we explore in detail the impact of different input settings of the diffusion model on segmentation performance. Hopefully, this completely new paradigm will bring inspiration to the study of FSS task integrated with AI-generated content. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** ACDMSR: Accelerated Conditional Diffusion Models for Single Image  Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00781  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have gained significant popularity in the field of image-to-image translation. Previous efforts applying diffusion models to image super-resolution (SR) have demonstrated that iteratively refining pure Gaussian noise using a U-Net architecture trained on denoising at various noise levels can yield satisfactory high-resolution images from low-resolution inputs. However, this iterative refinement process comes with the drawback of low inference speed, which strongly limits its applications. To speed up inference and further enhance the performance, our research revisits diffusion models in image super-resolution and proposes a straightforward yet significant diffusion model-based super-resolution method called ACDMSR (accelerated conditional diffusion model for image super-resolution). Specifically, our method adapts the standard diffusion model to perform super-resolution through a deterministic iterative denoising process. Our study also highlights the effectiveness of using a pre-trained SR model to provide the conditional image of the given low-resolution (LR) image to achieve superior high-resolution results. We demonstrate that our method surpasses previous attempts in qualitative and quantitative results through extensive experiments conducted on benchmark datasets such as Set5, Set14, Urban100, BSD100, and Manga109. Moreover, our approach generates more visually realistic counterparts for low-resolution images, emphasizing its effectiveness in practical scenarios. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Evaluating Shutdown Avoidance of Language Models in Textual Scenarios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00787  
**Abstract:** Recently, there has been an increase in interest in evaluating large language models for emergent and dangerous capabilities. Importantly, agents could reason that in some scenarios their goal is better achieved if they are not turned off, which can lead to undesirable behaviors. In this paper, we investigate the potential of using toy textual scenarios to evaluate instrumental reasoning and shutdown avoidance in language models such as GPT-4 and Claude. Furthermore, we explore whether shutdown avoidance is merely a result of simple pattern matching between the dataset and the prompt or if it is a consistent behaviour across different environments and variations. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Space-time finite element analysis of the advection-diffusion equation  using Galerkin/least-square stabilization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00822  
**Abstract:** We present a full space-time numerical solution of the advection-diffusion equation using a continuous Galerkin finite element method. The Galerkin/least-square method is employed to ensure stability of the discrete variational problem. In the full space-time formulation, time is considered another dimension, and the time derivative is interpreted as an additional advection term of the field variable. We derive a priori error estimates and illustrate spatio-temporal convergence with several numerical examples. We also derive a posteriori error estimates, which coupled with adaptive space-time mesh refinement provide efficient and accurate solutions. The accuracy of the space-time solutions is illustrated against analytical solutions as well as against numerical solutions using a conventional time-marching algorithm. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** UniFine: A Unified and Fine-grained Approach for Zero-shot  Vision-Language Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00862  
**Abstract:** Vision-language tasks, such as VQA, SNLI-VE, and VCR are challenging because they require the model's reasoning ability to understand the semantics of the visual world and natural language. Supervised methods working for vision-language tasks have been well-studied. However, solving these tasks in a zero-shot setting is less explored. Since Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has shown remarkable zero-shot performance on image-text matching, previous works utilized its strong zero-shot ability by converting vision-language tasks into an image-text matching problem, and they mainly consider global-level matching (e.g., the whole image or sentence). However, we find visual and textual fine-grained information, e.g., keywords in the sentence and objects in the image, can be fairly informative for semantics understanding. Inspired by this, we propose a unified framework to take advantage of the fine-grained information for zero-shot vision-language learning, covering multiple tasks such as VQA, SNLI-VE, and VCR. Our experiments show that our framework outperforms former zero-shot methods on VQA and achieves substantial improvement on SNLI-VE and VCR. Furthermore, our ablation studies confirm the effectiveness and generalizability of our proposed method. Code will be available at https://github.com/ThreeSR/UniFine 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** HODINet: High-Order Discrepant Interaction Network for RGB-D Salient  Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00954  
**Abstract:** RGB-D salient object detection (SOD) aims to detect the prominent regions by jointly modeling RGB and depth information. Most RGB-D SOD methods apply the same type of backbones and fusion modules to identically learn the multimodality and multistage features. However, these features contribute differently to the final saliency results, which raises two issues: 1) how to model discrepant characteristics of RGB images and depth maps; 2) how to fuse these cross-modality features in different stages. In this paper, we propose a high-order discrepant interaction network (HODINet) for RGB-D SOD. Concretely, we first employ transformer-based and CNN-based architectures as backbones to encode RGB and depth features, respectively. Then, the high-order representations are delicately extracted and embedded into spatial and channel attentions for cross-modality feature fusion in different stages. Specifically, we design a high-order spatial fusion (HOSF) module and a high-order channel fusion (HOCF) module to fuse features of the first two and the last two stages, respectively. Besides, a cascaded pyramid reconstruction network is adopted to progressively decode the fused features in a top-down pathway. Extensive experiments are conducted on seven widely used datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. We achieve competitive performance against 24 state-of-the-art methods under four evaluation metrics. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Challenges in Domain-Specific Abstractive Summarization and How to  Overcome them  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00963  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models work quite well with general-purpose data and many tasks in Natural Language Processing. However, they show several limitations when used for a task such as domain-specific abstractive text summarization. This paper identifies three of those limitations as research problems in the context of abstractive text summarization: 1) Quadratic complexity of transformer-based models with respect to the input text length; 2) Model Hallucination, which is a model's ability to generate factually incorrect text; and 3) Domain Shift, which happens when the distribution of the model's training and test corpus is not the same. Along with a discussion of the open research questions, this paper also provides an assessment of existing state-of-the-art techniques relevant to domain-specific text summarization to address the research gaps. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Joint Coordinate Regression and Association For Multi-Person Pose  Estimation, A Pure Neural Network Approach  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01004  
**Abstract:** We introduce a novel one-stage end-to-end multi-person 2D pose estimation algorithm, known as Joint Coordinate Regression and Association (JCRA), that produces human pose joints and associations without requiring any post-processing. The proposed algorithm is fast, accurate, effective, and simple. The one-stage end-to-end network architecture significantly improves the inference speed of JCRA. Meanwhile, we devised a symmetric network structure for both the encoder and decoder, which ensures high accuracy in identifying keypoints. It follows an architecture that directly outputs part positions via a transformer network, resulting in a significant improvement in performance. Extensive experiments on the MS COCO and CrowdPose benchmarks demonstrate that JCRA outperforms state-of-the-art approaches in both accuracy and efficiency. Moreover, JCRA demonstrates 69.2 mAP and is 78\% faster at inference acceleration than previous state-of-the-art bottom-up algorithms. The code for this algorithm will be publicly available. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** TomatoDIFF: On-plant Tomato Segmentation with Denoising Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01064  
**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence applications enable farmers to optimize crop growth and production while reducing costs and environmental impact. Computer vision-based algorithms in particular, are commonly used for fruit segmentation, enabling in-depth analysis of the harvest quality and accurate yield estimation. In this paper, we propose TomatoDIFF, a novel diffusion-based model for semantic segmentation of on-plant tomatoes. When evaluated against other competitive methods, our model demonstrates state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance, even in challenging environments with highly occluded fruits. Additionally, we introduce Tomatopia, a new, large and challenging dataset of greenhouse tomatoes. The dataset comprises high-resolution RGB-D images and pixel-level annotations of the fruits. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** A phase field-based framework for electro-chemo-mechanical fracture:  crack-contained electrolytes, chemical reactions and stabilisation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01105  
**Abstract:** We present a new theoretical and computational framework for modelling electro-chemo-mechanical fracture. The model combines a phase field description of fracture with a fully coupled characterisation of electrolyte behaviour, surface chemical reactions and stress-assisted diffusion. Importantly, a new physics-based formulation is presented to describe electrolyte-containing phase field cracks, appropriately capturing the sensitivity of electrochemical transport and reaction kinetics to the crack opening height. Unlike other existing methods, this approach is shown to accurately capture the results obtained with discrete fracture simulations. The potential of the electro-chemo-mechanical model presented is demonstrated by particularising it to the analysis of hydrogen embrittlement in metallic samples exposed to aqueous electrolytes. The finite element implementation takes as nodal degrees-of-freedom the electrolyte potential, the concentrations of relevant ionic species, the surface coverage, the concentration of diluted species, the displacement field and the phase field order parameter. Particular attention is devoted to improve stability and efficiency, resulting in the development of strategies for avoiding ill-constrained degrees of freedom and lumped integration schemes that eliminate numerical oscillations. The numerical experiments conducted showcase the ability of the model to deliver assumptions-free predictions for systems involving both free-flowing and crack-contained electrolytes. The results obtained highlight the role of electrolyte behaviour in driving the cracking process, evidencing the limitations of existing models. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** MeT: A Graph Transformer for Semantic Segmentation of 3D Meshes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01115  
**Abstract:** Polygonal meshes have become the standard for discretely approximating 3D shapes, thanks to their efficiency and high flexibility in capturing non-uniform shapes. This non-uniformity, however, leads to irregularity in the mesh structure, making tasks like segmentation of 3D meshes particularly challenging. Semantic segmentation of 3D mesh has been typically addressed through CNN-based approaches, leading to good accuracy. Recently, transformers have gained enough momentum both in NLP and computer vision fields, achieving performance at least on par with CNN models, supporting the long-sought architecture universalism. Following this trend, we propose a transformer-based method for semantic segmentation of 3D mesh motivated by a better modeling of the graph structure of meshes, by means of global attention mechanisms. In order to address the limitations of standard transformer architectures in modeling relative positions of non-sequential data, as in the case of 3D meshes, as well as in capturing the local context, we perform positional encoding by means the Laplacian eigenvectors of the adjacency matrix, replacing the traditional sinusoidal positional encodings, and by introducing clustering-based features into the self-attention and cross-attention operators. Experimental results, carried out on three sets of the Shape COSEG Dataset, on the human segmentation dataset proposed in Maron et al., 2017 and on the ShapeNet benchmark, show how the proposed approach yields state-of-the-art performance on semantic segmentation of 3D meshes. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Benchmarking the Parallel 1D Heat Equation Solver in Chapel, Charm++,  C++, HPX, Go, Julia, Python, Rust, Swift, and Java  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01117  
**Abstract:** Many scientific high performance codes that simulate e.g. black holes, coastal waves, climate and weather, etc. rely on block-structured meshes and use finite differencing methods to iteratively solve the appropriate systems of differential equations. In this paper we investigate implementations of an extremely simple simulation of this type using various programming systems and languages. We focus on a shared memory, parallelized algorithm that simulates a 1D heat diffusion using asynchronous queues for the ghost zone exchange. We discuss the advantages of the various platforms and explore the performance of this model code on different computing architectures: Intel, AMD, and ARM64FX. As a result, Python was the slowest of the set we compared. Java, Go, Swift, and Julia were the intermediate performers. The higher performing platforms were C++, Rust, Chapel, Charm++, and HPX. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Iterative Zero-Shot LLM Prompting for Knowledge Graph Construction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01128  
**Abstract:** In the current digitalization era, capturing and effectively representing knowledge is crucial in most real-world scenarios. In this context, knowledge graphs represent a potent tool for retrieving and organizing a vast amount of information in a properly interconnected and interpretable structure. However, their generation is still challenging and often requires considerable human effort and domain expertise, hampering the scalability and flexibility across different application fields. This paper proposes an innovative knowledge graph generation approach that leverages the potential of the latest generative large language models, such as GPT-3.5, that can address all the main critical issues in knowledge graph building. The approach is conveyed in a pipeline that comprises novel iterative zero-shot and external knowledge-agnostic strategies in the main stages of the generation process. Our unique manifold approach may encompass significant benefits to the scientific community. In particular, the main contribution can be summarized by: (i) an innovative strategy for iteratively prompting large language models to extract relevant components of the final graph; (ii) a zero-shot strategy for each prompt, meaning that there is no need for providing examples for "guiding" the prompt result; (iii) a scalable solution, as the adoption of LLMs avoids the need for any external resources or human expertise. To assess the effectiveness of our proposed model, we performed experiments on a dataset that covered a specific domain. We claim that our proposal is a suitable solution for scalable and versatile knowledge graph construction and may be applied to different and novel contexts. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** ChatGPT vs. Google: A Comparative Study of Search Performance and User  Experience  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01135  
**Abstract:** The advent of ChatGPT, a large language model-powered chatbot, has prompted questions about its potential implications for traditional search engines. In this study, we investigate the differences in user behavior when employing search engines and chatbot tools for information-seeking tasks. We carry out a randomized online experiment, dividing participants into two groups: one using a ChatGPT-like tool and the other using a Google Search-like tool. Our findings reveal that the ChatGPT group consistently spends less time on all tasks, with no significant difference in overall task performance between the groups. Notably, ChatGPT levels user search performance across different education levels and excels in answering straightforward questions and providing general solutions but falls short in fact-checking tasks. Users perceive ChatGPT's responses as having higher information quality compared to Google Search, despite displaying a similar level of trust in both tools. Furthermore, participants using ChatGPT report significantly better user experiences in terms of usefulness, enjoyment, and satisfaction, while perceived ease of use remains comparable between the two tools. However, ChatGPT may also lead to overreliance and generate or replicate misinformation, yielding inconsistent results. Our study offers valuable insights for search engine management and highlights opportunities for integrating chatbot technologies into search engine designs. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Prompt Middleware: Mapping Prompts for Large Language Models to UI  Affordances  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01142  
**Abstract:** To help users do complex work, researchers have developed techniques to integrate AI and human intelligence into user interfaces (UIs). With the recent introduction of large language models (LLMs), which can generate text in response to a natural language prompt, there are new opportunities to consider how to integrate LLMs into UIs. We present Prompt Middleware, a framework for generating prompts for LLMs based on UI affordances. These include prompts that are predefined by experts (static prompts), generated from templates with fill-in options in the UI (template-based prompts), or created from scratch (free-form prompts). We demonstrate this framework with FeedbackBuffet, a writing assistant that automatically generates feedback based on a user's text input. Inspired by prior research showing how templates can help non-experts perform more like experts, FeedbackBuffet leverages template-based prompt middleware to enable feedback seekers to specify the types of feedback they want to receive as options in a UI. These options are composed using a template to form a feedback request prompt to GPT-3. We conclude with a discussion about how Prompt Middleware can help developers integrate LLMs into UIs. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** AVSegFormer: Audio-Visual Segmentation with Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01146  
**Abstract:** The combination of audio and vision has long been a topic of interest in the multi-modal community. Recently, a new audio-visual segmentation (AVS) task has been introduced, aiming to locate and segment the sounding objects in a given video. This task demands audio-driven pixel-level scene understanding for the first time, posing significant challenges. In this paper, we propose AVSegFormer, a novel framework for AVS tasks that leverages the transformer architecture. Specifically, we introduce audio queries and learnable queries into the transformer decoder, enabling the network to selectively attend to interested visual features. Besides, we present an audio-visual mixer, which can dynamically adjust visual features by amplifying relevant and suppressing irrelevant spatial channels. Additionally, we devise an intermediate mask loss to enhance the supervision of the decoder, encouraging the network to produce more accurate intermediate predictions. Extensive experiments demonstrate that AVSegFormer achieves state-of-the-art results on the AVS benchmark. The code is available at https://github.com/vvvb-github/AVSegFormer. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Investigating Data Memorization in 3D Latent Diffusion Models for  Medical Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01148  
**Abstract:** Generative latent diffusion models have been established as state-of-the-art in data generation. One promising application is generation of realistic synthetic medical imaging data for open data sharing without compromising patient privacy. Despite the promise, the capacity of such models to memorize sensitive patient training data and synthesize samples showing high resemblance to training data samples is relatively unexplored. Here, we assess the memorization capacity of 3D latent diffusion models on photon-counting coronary computed tomography angiography and knee magnetic resonance imaging datasets. To detect potential memorization of training samples, we utilize self-supervised models based on contrastive learning. Our results suggest that such latent diffusion models indeed memorize training data, and there is a dire need for devising strategies to mitigate memorization. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Learning Mixtures of Gaussians Using the DDPM Objective  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01178  
**Abstract:** Recent works have shown that diffusion models can learn essentially any distribution provided one can perform score estimation. Yet it remains poorly understood under what settings score estimation is possible, let alone when practical gradient-based algorithms for this task can provably succeed. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Trainable Transformer in Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01189  
**Abstract:** Recent works attribute the capability of in-context learning (ICL) in large pre-trained language models to implicitly simulating and fine-tuning an internal model (e.g., linear or 2-layer MLP) during inference. However, such constructions require large memory overhead, which makes simulation of more sophisticated internal models intractable. In this work, we propose an efficient construction, Transformer in Transformer (in short, TinT), that allows a transformer to simulate and fine-tune complex models internally during inference (e.g., pre-trained language models). In particular, we introduce innovative approximation techniques that allow a TinT model with less than 2 billion parameters to simulate and fine-tune a 125 million parameter transformer model within a single forward pass. TinT accommodates many common transformer variants and its design ideas also improve the efficiency of past instantiations of simple models inside transformers. We conduct end-to-end experiments to validate the internal fine-tuning procedure of TinT on various language modeling and downstream tasks. For example, even with a limited one-step budget, we observe TinT for a OPT-125M model improves performance by 4-16% absolute on average compared to OPT-125M. These findings suggest that large pre-trained language models are capable of performing intricate subroutines. To facilitate further work, a modular and extensible codebase for TinT is included. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Squeezing Large-Scale Diffusion Models for Mobile  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01193  
**Abstract:** The emergence of diffusion models has greatly broadened the scope of high-fidelity image synthesis, resulting in notable advancements in both practical implementation and academic research. With the active adoption of the model in various real-world applications, the need for on-device deployment has grown considerably. However, deploying large diffusion models such as Stable Diffusion with more than one billion parameters to mobile devices poses distinctive challenges due to the limited computational and memory resources, which may vary according to the device. In this paper, we present the challenges and solutions for deploying Stable Diffusion on mobile devices with TensorFlow Lite framework, which supports both iOS and Android devices. The resulting Mobile Stable Diffusion achieves the inference latency of smaller than 7 seconds for a 512x512 image generation on Android devices with mobile GPUs. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Improved sampling via learned diffusions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01198  
**Abstract:** Recently, a series of papers proposed deep learning-based approaches to sample from unnormalized target densities using controlled diffusion processes. In this work, we identify these approaches as special cases of the Schr\"odinger bridge problem, seeking the most likely stochastic evolution between a given prior distribution and the specified target. We further generalize this framework by introducing a variational formulation based on divergences between path space measures of time-reversed diffusion processes. This abstract perspective leads to practical losses that can be optimized by gradient-based algorithms and includes previous objectives as special cases. At the same time, it allows us to consider divergences other than the reverse Kullback-Leibler divergence that is known to suffer from mode collapse. In particular, we propose the so-called log-variance loss, which exhibits favorable numerical properties and leads to significantly improved performance across all considered approaches. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Beyond the Snapshot: Brain Tokenized Graph Transformer for Longitudinal  Brain Functional Connectome Embedding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00858  
**Abstract:** Under the framework of network-based neurodegeneration, brain functional connectome (FC)-based Graph Neural Networks (GNN) have emerged as a valuable tool for the diagnosis and prognosis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, these models are tailored for brain FC at a single time point instead of characterizing FC trajectory. Discerning how FC evolves with disease progression, particularly at the predementia stages such as cognitively normal individuals with amyloid deposition or individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), is crucial for delineating disease spreading patterns and developing effective strategies to slow down or even halt disease advancement. In this work, we proposed the first interpretable framework for brain FC trajectory embedding with application to neurodegenerative disease diagnosis and prognosis, namely Brain Tokenized Graph Transformer (Brain TokenGT). It consists of two modules: 1) Graph Invariant and Variant Embedding (GIVE) for generation of node and spatio-temporal edge embeddings, which were tokenized for downstream processing; 2) Brain Informed Graph Transformer Readout (BIGTR) which augments previous tokens with trainable type identifiers and non-trainable node identifiers and feeds them into a standard transformer encoder to readout. We conducted extensive experiments on two public longitudinal fMRI datasets of the AD continuum for three tasks, including differentiating MCI from controls, predicting dementia conversion in MCI, and classification of amyloid positive or negative cognitively normal individuals. Based on brain FC trajectory, the proposed Brain TokenGT approach outperformed all the other benchmark models and at the same time provided excellent interpretability. The code is available at https://github.com/ZijianD/Brain-TokenGT.git 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** End-To-End Prediction of Knee Osteoarthritis Progression With  Multi-Modal Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00873  
**Abstract:** Knee Osteoarthritis (KOA) is a highly prevalent chronic musculoskeletal condition with no currently available treatment. The manifestation of KOA is heterogeneous and prediction of its progression is challenging. Current literature suggests that the use of multi-modal data and advanced modeling methods, such as the ones based on Deep Learning, has promise in tackling this challenge. To date, however, the evidence on the efficacy of this approach is limited. In this study, we leveraged recent advances in Deep Learning and, using a Transformer approach, developed a unified framework for the multi-modal fusion of knee imaging data. Subsequently, we analyzed its performance across a range of scenarios by investigating multiple progression horizons -- from short-term to long-term. We report our findings using a large cohort (n=2421-3967) derived from the Osteoarthritis Initiative dataset. We show that structural knee MRI allows identifying radiographic KOA progressors on par with multi-modal fusion approaches, achieving an area under the ROC curve (ROC AUC) of 0.70-0.76 and Average Precision (AP) of 0.15-0.54 in 2-8 year horizons. Progression within 1 year was better predicted with a multi-modal method using X-ray, structural, and compositional MR images -- ROC AUC of 0.76(0.04), AP of 0.13(0.04) -- or via clinical data. Our follow-up analysis generally shows that prediction from the imaging data is more accurate for post-traumatic subjects, and we further investigate which subject subgroups may benefit the most. The present study provides novel insights into multi-modal imaging of KOA and brings a unified data-driven framework for studying its progression in an end-to-end manner, providing new tools for the design of more efficient clinical trials. The source code of our framework and the pre-trained models are made publicly available. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Synthesis of Contrast-Enhanced Breast MRI Using Multi-b-Value DWI-based  Hierarchical Fusion Network with Attention Mechanism  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00895  
**Abstract:** Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the most sensitive technique for breast cancer detection among current clinical imaging modalities. Contrast-enhanced MRI (CE-MRI) provides superior differentiation between tumors and invaded healthy tissue, and has become an indispensable technique in the detection and evaluation of cancer. However, the use of gadolinium-based contrast agents (GBCA) to obtain CE-MRI may be associated with nephrogenic systemic fibrosis and may lead to bioaccumulation in the brain, posing a potential risk to human health. Moreover, and likely more important, the use of gadolinium-based contrast agents requires the cannulation of a vein, and the injection of the contrast media which is cumbersome and places a burden on the patient. To reduce the use of contrast agents, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is emerging as a key imaging technique, although currently usually complementing breast CE-MRI. In this study, we develop a multi-sequence fusion network to synthesize CE-MRI based on T1-weighted MRI and DWIs. DWIs with different b-values are fused to efficiently utilize the difference features of DWIs. Rather than proposing a pure data-driven approach, we invent a multi-sequence attention module to obtain refined feature maps, and leverage hierarchical representation information fused at different scales while utilizing the contributions from different sequences from a model-driven approach by introducing the weighted difference module. The results show that the multi-b-value DWI-based fusion model can potentially be used to synthesize CE-MRI, thus theoretically reducing or avoiding the use of GBCA, thereby minimizing the burden to patients. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/Netherlands-Cancer-Institute/CE-MRI}. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** A data-driven kinetic model for opinion dynamics with social network  contacts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.00906  
**Abstract:** Opinion dynamics is an important and very active area of research that delves into the complex processes through which individuals form and modify their opinions within a social context. The ability to comprehend and unravel the mechanisms that drive opinion formation is of great significance for predicting a wide range of social phenomena such as political polarization, the diffusion of misinformation, the formation of public consensus, and the emergence of collective behaviors. In this paper, we aim to contribute to that field by introducing a novel mathematical model that specifically accounts for the influence of social media networks on opinion dynamics. With the rise of platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram and many others, social networks have become significant arenas where opinions are shared, discussed, and potentially altered. To this aim after an analytical construction of our new model and through incorporation of real-life data from Twitter, we calibrate the model parameters to accurately reflect the dynamics that unfold in social media, showing in particular the role played by the so-called influencers in driving individual opinions towards predetermined directions. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Supervised Manifold Learning via Random Forest Geometry-Preserving  Proximities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.01077  
**Abstract:** Manifold learning approaches seek the intrinsic, low-dimensional data structure within a high-dimensional space. Mainstream manifold learning algorithms, such as Isomap, UMAP, $t$-SNE, Diffusion Map, and Laplacian Eigenmaps do not use data labels and are thus considered unsupervised. Existing supervised extensions of these methods are limited to classification problems and fall short of uncovering meaningful embeddings due to their construction using order non-preserving, class-conditional distances. In this paper, we show the weaknesses of class-conditional manifold learning quantitatively and visually and propose an alternate choice of kernel for supervised dimensionality reduction using a data-geometry-preserving variant of random forest proximities as an initialization for manifold learning methods. We show that local structure preservation using these proximities is near universal across manifold learning approaches and global structure is properly maintained using diffusion-based algorithms. 

