**ID:** 1  
**Title:** DF-3DFace: One-to-Many Speech Synchronized 3D Face Animation with  Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.05934  
**Abstract:** Speech-driven 3D facial animation has gained significant attention for its ability to create realistic and expressive facial animations in 3D space based on speech. Learning-based methods have shown promising progress in achieving accurate facial motion synchronized with speech. However, one-to-many nature of speech-to-3D facial synthesis has not been fully explored: while the lip accurately synchronizes with the speech content, other facial attributes beyond speech-related motions are variable with respect to the speech. To account for the potential variance in the facial attributes within a single speech, we propose DF-3DFace, a diffusion-driven speech-to-3D face mesh synthesis. DF-3DFace captures the complex one-to-many relationships between speech and 3D face based on diffusion. It concurrently achieves aligned lip motion by exploiting audio-mesh synchronization and masked conditioning. Furthermore, the proposed method jointly models identity and pose in addition to facial motions so that it can generate 3D face animation without requiring a reference identity mesh and produce natural head poses. We contribute a new large-scale 3D facial mesh dataset, 3D-HDTF to enable the synthesis of variations in identities, poses, and facial motions of 3D face mesh. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method successfully generates highly variable facial shapes and motions from speech and simultaneously achieves more realistic facial animation than the state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Exploring Embeddings for Measuring Text Relatedness: Unveiling  Sentiments and Relationships in Online Comments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.05964  
**Abstract:** After a pandemic that caused internet usage to grow by 70%, there has been an increased number of people all across the world using social media. Applications like Twitter, Meta Threads, YouTube, and Reddit have become increasingly pervasive, leaving almost no digital space where public opinion is not expressed. This paper investigates sentiment and semantic relationships among comments across various social media platforms, as well as discusses the importance of shared opinions across these different media platforms, using word embeddings to analyze components in sentences and documents. It allows researchers, politicians, and business representatives to trace a path of shared sentiment among users across the world. This research paper presents multiple approaches that measure the relatedness of text extracted from user comments on these popular online platforms. By leveraging embeddings, which capture semantic relationships between words and help analyze sentiments across the web, we can uncover connections regarding public opinion as a whole. The study utilizes pre-existing datasets from YouTube, Reddit, Twitter, and more. We made use of popular natural language processing models like Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) to analyze sentiments and explore relationships between comment embeddings. Additionally, we aim to utilize clustering and Kl-divergence to find semantic relationships within these comment embeddings across various social media platforms. Our analysis will enable a deeper understanding of the interconnectedness of online comments and will investigate the notion of the internet functioning as a large interconnected brain. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Measuring reasoning capabilities of ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.05993  
**Abstract:** I shall quantify the logical faults generated by ChatGPT when applied to reasoning tasks. For experiments, I use the 144 puzzles from the library \url{https://users.utcluj.ro/~agroza/puzzles/maloga}~\cite{groza:fol}. The library contains puzzles of various types, including arithmetic puzzles, logical equations, Sudoku-like puzzles, zebra-like puzzles, truth-telling puzzles, grid puzzles, strange numbers, or self-reference puzzles. The correct solutions for these puzzles were checked using the theorem prover Prover9~\cite{mccune2005release} and the finite models finder Mace4~\cite{mccune2003mace4} based on human-modelling in Equational First Order Logic. A first output of this study is the benchmark of 100 logical puzzles. For this dataset ChatGPT provided both correct answer and justification for 7\% only. %, while BARD for 5\%. Since the dataset seems challenging, the researchers are invited to test the dataset on more advanced or tuned models than ChatGPT3.5 with more crafted prompts. A second output is the classification of reasoning faults conveyed by ChatGPT. This classification forms a basis for a taxonomy of reasoning faults generated by large language models. I have identified 67 such logical faults, among which: inconsistencies, implication does not hold, unsupported claim, lack of commonsense, wrong justification. The 100 solutions generated by ChatGPT contain 698 logical faults. That is on average, 7 fallacies for each reasoning task. A third ouput is the annotated answers of the ChatGPT with the corresponding logical faults. Each wrong statement within the ChatGPT answer was manually annotated, aiming to quantify the amount of faulty text generated by the language model. On average, 26.03\% from the generated text was a logical fault. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** What Skills Do You Need When Developing Software Using ChatGPT?  (Discussion Paper)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.05998  
**Abstract:** Since the release of LLM-based tools such as GitHub Copilot and ChatGPT the media and popular scientific literature, but also journals such as the Communications of the ACM, have been flooded with opinions how these tools will change programming. The opinions range from ``machines will program themselves'', to ``AI does not help programmers''. Of course, these statements are meant to to stir up a discussion, and should be taken with a grain of salt, but we argue that such unfounded statements are potentially harmful. Instead, we propose to investigate which skills are required to develop software using LLM-based tools. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** DyST: Towards Dynamic Neural Scene Representations on Real-World Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06020  
**Abstract:** Visual understanding of the world goes beyond the semantics and flat structure of individual images. In this work, we aim to capture both the 3D structure and dynamics of real-world scenes from monocular real-world videos. Our Dynamic Scene Transformer (DyST) model leverages recent work in neural scene representation to learn a latent decomposition of monocular real-world videos into scene content, per-view scene dynamics, and camera pose. This separation is achieved through a novel co-training scheme on monocular videos and our new synthetic dataset DySO. DyST learns tangible latent representations for dynamic scenes that enable view generation with separate control over the camera and the content of the scene. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Auditing Gender Analyzers on Text Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06061  
**Abstract:** AI models have become extremely popular and accessible to the general public. However, they are continuously under the scanner due to their demonstrable biases toward various sections of the society like people of color and non-binary people. In this study, we audit three existing gender analyzers -- uClassify, Readable and HackerFactor, for biases against non-binary individuals. These tools are designed to predict only the cisgender binary labels, which leads to discrimination against non-binary members of the society. We curate two datasets -- Reddit comments (660k) and, Tumblr posts (2.05M) and our experimental evaluation shows that the tools are highly inaccurate with the overall accuracy being ~50% on all platforms. Predictions for non-binary comments on all platforms are mostly female, thus propagating the societal bias that non-binary individuals are effeminate. To address this, we fine-tune a BERT multi-label classifier on the two datasets in multiple combinations, observe an overall performance of ~77% on the most realistically deployable setting and a surprisingly higher performance of 90% for the non-binary class. We also audit ChatGPT using zero-shot prompts on a small dataset (due to high pricing) and observe an average accuracy of 58% for Reddit and Tumblr combined (with overall better results for Reddit). 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Stabilized finite elements for the solution of the Reynolds equation  considering cavitation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06066  
**Abstract:** The Reynolds equation, combined with the Elrod algorithm for including the effect of cavitation, resembles a nonlinear convection-diffusion-reaction (CDR) equation. Its solution by finite elements is prone to oscillations in convection-dominated regions, which are present whenever cavitation occurs. We propose a stabilized finite-element method that is based on the variational multiscale method and exploits the concept of orthogonal subgrid scales. We demonstrate that this approach only requires one additional term in the weak form to obtain a stable method that converges optimally when performing mesh refinement. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** JVNV: A Corpus of Japanese Emotional Speech with Verbal Content and  Nonverbal Expressions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06072  
**Abstract:** We present the JVNV, a Japanese emotional speech corpus with verbal content and nonverbal vocalizations whose scripts are generated by a large-scale language model. Existing emotional speech corpora lack not only proper emotional scripts but also nonverbal vocalizations (NVs) that are essential expressions in spoken language to express emotions. We propose an automatic script generation method to produce emotional scripts by providing seed words with sentiment polarity and phrases of nonverbal vocalizations to ChatGPT using prompt engineering. We select 514 scripts with balanced phoneme coverage from the generated candidate scripts with the assistance of emotion confidence scores and language fluency scores. We demonstrate the effectiveness of JVNV by showing that JVNV has better phoneme coverage and emotion recognizability than previous Japanese emotional speech corpora. We then benchmark JVNV on emotional text-to-speech synthesis using discrete codes to represent NVs. We show that there still exists a gap between the performance of synthesizing read-aloud speech and emotional speech, and adding NVs in the speech makes the task even harder, which brings new challenges for this task and makes JVNV a valuable resource for relevant works in the future. To our best knowledge, JVNV is the first speech corpus that generates scripts automatically using large language models. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Transformers and Large Language Models for Chemistry and Drug Discovery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06083  
**Abstract:** Language modeling has seen impressive progress over the last years, mainly prompted by the invention of the Transformer architecture, sparking a revolution in many fields of machine learning, with breakthroughs in chemistry and biology. In this chapter, we explore how analogies between chemical and natural language have inspired the use of Transformers to tackle important bottlenecks in the drug discovery process, such as retrosynthetic planning and chemical space exploration. The revolution started with models able to perform particular tasks with a single type of data, like linearised molecular graphs, which then evolved to include other types of data, like spectra from analytical instruments, synthesis actions, and human language. A new trend leverages recent developments in large language models, giving rise to a wave of models capable of solving generic tasks in chemistry, all facilitated by the flexibility of natural language. As we continue to explore and harness these capabilities, we can look forward to a future where machine learning plays an even more integral role in accelerating scientific discovery. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Text-driven Prompt Generation for Vision-Language Models in Federated  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06123  
**Abstract:** Prompt learning for vision-language models, e.g., CoOp, has shown great success in adapting CLIP to different downstream tasks, making it a promising solution for federated learning due to computational reasons. Existing prompt learning techniques replace hand-crafted text prompts with learned vectors that offer improvements on seen classes, but struggle to generalize to unseen classes. Our work addresses this challenge by proposing Federated Text-driven Prompt Generation (FedTPG), which learns a unified prompt generation network across multiple remote clients in a scalable manner. The prompt generation network is conditioned on task-related text input, thus is context-aware, making it suitable to generalize for both seen and unseen classes. Our comprehensive empirical evaluations on nine diverse image classification datasets show that our method is superior to existing federated prompt learning methods, that achieve overall better generalization on both seen and unseen classes and is also generalizable to unseen datasets. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Factorized Tensor Networks for Multi-Task and Multi-Domain Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06124  
**Abstract:** Multi-task and multi-domain learning methods seek to learn multiple tasks/domains, jointly or one after another, using a single unified network. The key challenge and opportunity is to exploit shared information across tasks and domains to improve the efficiency of the unified network. The efficiency can be in terms of accuracy, storage cost, computation, or sample complexity. In this paper, we propose a factorized tensor network (FTN) that can achieve accuracy comparable to independent single-task/domain networks with a small number of additional parameters. FTN uses a frozen backbone network from a source model and incrementally adds task/domain-specific low-rank tensor factors to the shared frozen network. This approach can adapt to a large number of target domains and tasks without catastrophic forgetting. Furthermore, FTN requires a significantly smaller number of task-specific parameters compared to existing methods. We performed experiments on widely used multi-domain and multi-task datasets. We show the experiments on convolutional-based architecture with different backbones and on transformer-based architecture. We observed that FTN achieves similar accuracy as single-task/domain methods while using only a fraction of additional parameters per task. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Layout Sequence Prediction From Noisy Mobile Modality  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06138  
**Abstract:** Trajectory prediction plays a vital role in understanding pedestrian movement for applications such as autonomous driving and robotics. Current trajectory prediction models depend on long, complete, and accurately observed sequences from visual modalities. Nevertheless, real-world situations often involve obstructed cameras, missed objects, or objects out of sight due to environmental factors, leading to incomplete or noisy trajectories. To overcome these limitations, we propose LTrajDiff, a novel approach that treats objects obstructed or out of sight as equally important as those with fully visible trajectories. LTrajDiff utilizes sensor data from mobile phones to surmount out-of-sight constraints, albeit introducing new challenges such as modality fusion, noisy data, and the absence of spatial layout and object size information. We employ a denoising diffusion model to predict precise layout sequences from noisy mobile data using a coarse-to-fine diffusion strategy, incorporating the RMS, Siamese Masked Encoding Module, and MFM. Our model predicts layout sequences by implicitly inferring object size and projection status from a single reference timestamp or significantly obstructed sequences. Achieving SOTA results in randomly obstructed experiments and extremely short input experiments, our model illustrates the effectiveness of leveraging noisy mobile data. In summary, our approach offers a promising solution to the challenges faced by layout sequence and trajectory prediction models in real-world settings, paving the way for utilizing sensor data from mobile phones to accurately predict pedestrian bounding box trajectories. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that addresses severely obstructed and extremely short layout sequences by combining vision with noisy mobile modality, making it the pioneering work in the field of layout sequence trajectory prediction. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Reinforcement Learning in the Era of LLMs: What is Essential? What is  needed? An RL Perspective on RLHF, Prompting, and Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06147  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered wide attention and led to successful products such as ChatGPT and GPT-4. Their proficiency in adhering to instructions and delivering harmless, helpful, and honest (3H) responses can largely be attributed to the technique of Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF). In this paper, we aim to link the research in conventional RL to RL techniques used in LLM research. Demystify this technique by discussing why, when, and how RL excels. Furthermore, we explore potential future avenues that could either benefit from or contribute to RLHF research. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Latent Diffusion Model for DNA Sequence Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06150  
**Abstract:** The harnessing of machine learning, especially deep generative models, has opened up promising avenues in the field of synthetic DNA sequence generation. Whilst Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have gained traction for this application, they often face issues such as limited sample diversity and mode collapse. On the other hand, Diffusion Models are a promising new class of generative models that are not burdened with these problems, enabling them to reach the state-of-the-art in domains such as image generation. In light of this, we propose a novel latent diffusion model, DiscDiff, tailored for discrete DNA sequence generation. By simply embedding discrete DNA sequences into a continuous latent space using an autoencoder, we are able to leverage the powerful generative abilities of continuous diffusion models for the generation of discrete data. Additionally, we introduce Fr\'echet Reconstruction Distance (FReD) as a new metric to measure the sample quality of DNA sequence generations. Our DiscDiff model demonstrates an ability to generate synthetic DNA sequences that align closely with real DNA in terms of Motif Distribution, Latent Embedding Distribution (FReD), and Chromatin Profiles. Additionally, we contribute a comprehensive cross-species dataset of 150K unique promoter-gene sequences from 15 species, enriching resources for future generative modelling in genomics. We will make our code public upon publication. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Toward More Accurate and Robust Optimal Power Flow for Distribution  Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06170  
**Abstract:** The objective of this paper is to improve the accuracy and robustness of optimal power flow (OPF) formulations for distribution systems modeled down to the low-voltage point of connection of individual buildings. An approach for addressing the uncertain switching behavior of building loads(e.g., air conditioners, water heaters, or pool pumps) and variable renewable generation (e.g., rooftop solar) in the OPF is proposed. Rather than using time-averaged forecasts to determine voltage magnitude constraints, we leverage worst-case minimum and maximum forecasts of loads and distributed energy resource generation. Sensitivities of the power flow equations are used to predict how these deviations in load and renewable generation will impact system voltages, and the voltage constraints in the OPF are dynamically adjusted to mitigate voltage violations due to this uncertainty. A methodology for incorporating models of split-phase components and transformer core losses in the OPF formulation is also proposed. The proposed approach is validated through numerical case studies on a realistic distribution feeder using GridLAB-D, a distribution system simulation software. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Memory-Consistent Neural Networks for Imitation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06171  
**Abstract:** Imitation learning considerably simplifies policy synthesis compared to alternative approaches by exploiting access to expert demonstrations. For such imitation policies, errors away from the training samples are particularly critical. Even rare slip-ups in the policy action outputs can compound quickly over time, since they lead to unfamiliar future states where the policy is still more likely to err, eventually causing task failures. We revisit simple supervised ``behavior cloning'' for conveniently training the policy from nothing more than pre-recorded demonstrations, but carefully design the model class to counter the compounding error phenomenon. Our ``memory-consistent neural network'' (MCNN) outputs are hard-constrained to stay within clearly specified permissible regions anchored to prototypical ``memory'' training samples. We provide a guaranteed upper bound for the sub-optimality gap induced by MCNN policies. Using MCNNs on 9 imitation learning tasks, with MLP, Transformer, and Diffusion backbones, spanning dexterous robotic manipulation and driving, proprioceptive inputs and visual inputs, and varying sizes and types of demonstration data, we find large and consistent gains in performance, validating that MCNNs are better-suited than vanilla deep neural networks for imitation learning applications. Website: https://sites.google.com/view/mcnn-imitation 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** How does prompt engineering affect ChatGPT performance on unsupervised  entity resolution?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06174  
**Abstract:** Entity Resolution (ER) is the problem of semi-automatically determining when two entities refer to the same underlying entity, with applications ranging from healthcare to e-commerce. Traditional ER solutions required considerable manual expertise, including feature engineering, as well as identification and curation of training data. In many instances, such techniques are highly dependent on the domain. With recent advent in large language models (LLMs), there is an opportunity to make ER much more seamless and domain-independent. However, it is also well known that LLMs can pose risks, and that the quality of their outputs can depend on so-called prompt engineering. Unfortunately, a systematic experimental study on the effects of different prompting methods for addressing ER, using LLMs like ChatGPT, has been lacking thus far. This paper aims to address this gap by conducting such a study. Although preliminary in nature, our results show that prompting can significantly affect the quality of ER, although it affects some metrics more than others, and can also be dataset dependent. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** DockGame: Cooperative Games for Multimeric Rigid Protein Docking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06177  
**Abstract:** Protein interactions and assembly formation are fundamental to most biological processes. Predicting the assembly structure from constituent proteins -- referred to as the protein docking task -- is thus a crucial step in protein design applications. Most traditional and deep learning methods for docking have focused mainly on binary docking, following either a search-based, regression-based, or generative modeling paradigm. In this paper, we focus on the less-studied multimeric (i.e., two or more proteins) docking problem. We introduce DockGame, a novel game-theoretic framework for docking -- we view protein docking as a cooperative game between proteins, where the final assembly structure(s) constitute stable equilibria w.r.t. the underlying game potential. Since we do not have access to the true potential, we consider two approaches - i) learning a surrogate game potential guided by physics-based energy functions and computing equilibria by simultaneous gradient updates, and ii) sampling from the Gibbs distribution of the true potential by learning a diffusion generative model over the action spaces (rotations and translations) of all proteins. Empirically, on the Docking Benchmark 5.5 (DB5.5) dataset, DockGame has much faster runtimes than traditional docking methods, can generate multiple plausible assembly structures, and achieves comparable performance to existing binary docking baselines, despite solving the harder task of coordinating multiple protein chains. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** DiPS: Discriminative Pseudo-Label Sampling with Self-Supervised  Transformers for Weakly Supervised Object Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06196  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised vision transformers (SSTs) have shown great potential to yield rich localization maps that highlight different objects in an image. However, these maps remain class-agnostic since the model is unsupervised. They often tend to decompose the image into multiple maps containing different objects while being unable to distinguish the object of interest from background noise objects. In this paper, Discriminative Pseudo-label Sampling (DiPS) is introduced to leverage these class-agnostic maps for weakly-supervised object localization (WSOL), where only image-class labels are available. Given multiple attention maps, DiPS relies on a pre-trained classifier to identify the most discriminative regions of each attention map. This ensures that the selected ROIs cover the correct image object while discarding the background ones, and, as such, provides a rich pool of diverse and discriminative proposals to cover different parts of the object. Subsequently, these proposals are used as pseudo-labels to train our new transformer-based WSOL model designed to perform classification and localization tasks. Unlike standard WSOL methods, DiPS optimizes performance in both tasks by using a transformer encoder and a dedicated output head for each task, each trained using dedicated loss functions. To avoid overfitting a single proposal and promote better object coverage, a single proposal is randomly selected among the top ones for a training image at each training step. Experimental results on the challenging CUB, ILSVRC, OpenImages, and TelDrone datasets indicate that our architecture, in combination with our transformer-based proposals, can yield better localization performance than state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** The Importance of Prompt Tuning for Automated Neuron Explanations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06200  
**Abstract:** Recent advances have greatly increased the capabilities of large language models (LLMs), but our understanding of the models and their safety has not progressed as fast. In this paper we aim to understand LLMs deeper by studying their individual neurons. We build upon previous work showing large language models such as GPT-4 can be useful in explaining what each neuron in a language model does. Specifically, we analyze the effect of the prompt used to generate explanations and show that reformatting the explanation prompt in a more natural way can significantly improve neuron explanation quality and greatly reduce computational cost. We demonstrate the effects of our new prompts in three different ways, incorporating both automated and human evaluations. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** GPT-who: An Information Density-based Machine-Generated Text Detector  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06202  
**Abstract:** The Uniform Information Density principle posits that humans prefer to spread information evenly during language production. In this work, we examine if the UID principle can help capture differences between Large Language Models (LLMs) and human-generated text. We propose GPT-who, the first psycholinguistically-aware multi-class domain-agnostic statistical-based detector. This detector employs UID-based features to model the unique statistical signature of each LLM and human author for accurate authorship attribution. We evaluate our method using 4 large-scale benchmark datasets and find that GPT-who outperforms state-of-the-art detectors (both statistical- & non-statistical-based) such as GLTR, GPTZero, OpenAI detector, and ZeroGPT by over $20$% across domains. In addition to superior performance, it is computationally inexpensive and utilizes an interpretable representation of text articles. We present the largest analysis of the UID-based representations of human and machine-generated texts (over 400k articles) to demonstrate how authors distribute information differently, and in ways that enable their detection using an off-the-shelf LM without any fine-tuning. We find that GPT-who can distinguish texts generated by very sophisticated LLMs, even when the overlying text is indiscernible. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** GeoLLM: Extracting Geospatial Knowledge from Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06213  
**Abstract:** The application of machine learning (ML) in a range of geospatial tasks is increasingly common but often relies on globally available covariates such as satellite imagery that can either be expensive or lack predictive power. Here we explore the question of whether the vast amounts of knowledge found in Internet language corpora, now compressed within large language models (LLMs), can be leveraged for geospatial prediction tasks. We first demonstrate that LLMs embed remarkable spatial information about locations, but naively querying LLMs using geographic coordinates alone is ineffective in predicting key indicators like population density. We then present GeoLLM, a novel method that can effectively extract geospatial knowledge from LLMs with auxiliary map data from OpenStreetMap. We demonstrate the utility of our approach across multiple tasks of central interest to the international community, including the measurement of population density and economic livelihoods. Across these tasks, our method demonstrates a 70% improvement in performance (measured using Pearson's $r^2$) relative to baselines that use nearest neighbors or use information directly from the prompt, and performance equal to or exceeding satellite-based benchmarks in the literature. With GeoLLM, we observe that GPT-3.5 outperforms Llama 2 and RoBERTa by 19% and 51% respectively, suggesting that the performance of our method scales well with the size of the model and its pretraining dataset. Our experiments reveal that LLMs are remarkably sample-efficient, rich in geospatial information, and robust across the globe. Crucially, GeoLLM shows promise in mitigating the limitations of existing geospatial covariates and complementing them well. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** GPT-4 as an Agronomist Assistant? Answering Agriculture Exams Using  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06225  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in natural language understanding across various domains, including healthcare and finance. For some tasks, LLMs achieve similar or better performance than trained human beings, therefore it is reasonable to employ human exams (e.g., certification tests) to assess the performance of LLMs. We present a comprehensive evaluation of popular LLMs, such as Llama 2 and GPT, on their ability to answer agriculture-related questions. In our evaluation, we also employ RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) and ER (Ensemble Refinement) techniques, which combine information retrieval, generation capabilities, and prompting strategies to improve the LLMs' performance. To demonstrate the capabilities of LLMs, we selected agriculture exams and benchmark datasets from three of the largest agriculture producer countries: Brazil, India, and the USA. Our analysis highlights GPT-4's ability to achieve a passing score on exams to earn credits for renewing agronomist certifications, answering 93% of the questions correctly and outperforming earlier general-purpose models, which achieved 88% accuracy. On one of our experiments, GPT-4 obtained the highest performance when compared to human subjects. This performance suggests that GPT-4 could potentially pass on major graduate education admission tests or even earn credits for renewing agronomy certificates. We also explore the models' capacity to address general agriculture-related questions and generate crop management guidelines for Brazilian and Indian farmers, utilizing robust datasets from the Brazilian Agency of Agriculture (Embrapa) and graduate program exams from India. The results suggest that GPT-4, ER, and RAG can contribute meaningfully to agricultural education, assessment, and crop management practice, offering valuable insights to farmers and agricultural professionals. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Efficient Adaptation of Large Vision Transformer via Adapter  Re-Composing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06234  
**Abstract:** The advent of high-capacity pre-trained models has revolutionized problem-solving in computer vision, shifting the focus from training task-specific models to adapting pre-trained models. Consequently, effectively adapting large pre-trained models to downstream tasks in an efficient manner has become a prominent research area. Existing solutions primarily concentrate on designing lightweight adapters and their interaction with pre-trained models, with the goal of minimizing the number of parameters requiring updates. In this study, we propose a novel Adapter Re-Composing (ARC) strategy that addresses efficient pre-trained model adaptation from a fresh perspective. Our approach considers the reusability of adaptation parameters and introduces a parameter-sharing scheme. Specifically, we leverage symmetric down-/up-projections to construct bottleneck operations, which are shared across layers. By learning low-dimensional re-scaling coefficients, we can effectively re-compose layer-adaptive adapters. This parameter-sharing strategy in adapter design allows us to significantly reduce the number of new parameters while maintaining satisfactory performance, thereby offering a promising approach to compress the adaptation cost. We conduct experiments on 24 downstream image classification tasks using various Vision Transformer variants to evaluate our method. The results demonstrate that our approach achieves compelling transfer learning performance with a reduced parameter count. Our code is available at \href{https://github.com/DavidYanAnDe/ARC}{https://github.com/DavidYanAnDe/ARC}. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** An experiment on an automated literature survey of data-driven speech  enhancement methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06260  
**Abstract:** The increasing number of scientific publications in acoustics, in general, presents difficulties in conducting traditional literature surveys. This work explores the use of a generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) model to automate a literature survey of 116 articles on data-driven speech enhancement methods. The main objective is to evaluate the capabilities and limitations of the model in providing accurate responses to specific queries about the papers selected from a reference human-based survey. While we see great potential to automate literature surveys in acoustics, improvements are needed to address technical questions more clearly and accurately. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Let Models Speak Ciphers: Multiagent Debate through Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06272  
**Abstract:** Discussion and debate among Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained considerable attention due to their potential to enhance the reasoning ability of LLMs. Although natural language is an obvious choice for communication due to LLM's language understanding capability, the token sampling step needed when generating natural language poses a potential risk of information loss, as it uses only one token to represent the model's belief across the entire vocabulary. In this paper, we introduce a communication regime named CIPHER (Communicative Inter-Model Protocol Through Embedding Representation) to address this issue. Specifically, we remove the token sampling step from LLMs and let them communicate their beliefs across the vocabulary through the expectation of the raw transformer output embeddings. Remarkably, by deviating from natural language, CIPHER offers an advantage of encoding a broader spectrum of information without any modification to the model weights. While the state-of-the-art LLM debate methods using natural language outperforms traditional inference by a margin of 1.5-8%, our experiment results show that CIPHER debate further extends this lead by 1-3.5% across five reasoning tasks and multiple open-source LLMs of varying sizes. This showcases the superiority and robustness of embeddings as an alternative "language" for communication among LLMs. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** High-Fidelity 3D Head Avatars Reconstruction through Spatially-Varying  Expression Conditioned Neural Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06275  
**Abstract:** One crucial aspect of 3D head avatar reconstruction lies in the details of facial expressions. Although recent NeRF-based photo-realistic 3D head avatar methods achieve high-quality avatar rendering, they still encounter challenges retaining intricate facial expression details because they overlook the potential of specific expression variations at different spatial positions when conditioning the radiance field. Motivated by this observation, we introduce a novel Spatially-Varying Expression (SVE) conditioning. The SVE can be obtained by a simple MLP-based generation network, encompassing both spatial positional features and global expression information. Benefiting from rich and diverse information of the SVE at different positions, the proposed SVE-conditioned neural radiance field can deal with intricate facial expressions and achieve realistic rendering and geometry details of high-fidelity 3D head avatars. Additionally, to further elevate the geometric and rendering quality, we introduce a new coarse-to-fine training strategy, including a geometry initialization strategy at the coarse stage and an adaptive importance sampling strategy at the fine stage. Extensive experiments indicate that our method outperforms other state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods in rendering and geometry quality on mobile phone-collected and public datasets. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** BC4LLM: Trusted Artificial Intelligence When Blockchain Meets Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06278  
**Abstract:** In recent years, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are reshaping society's production methods and productivity, and also changing the paradigm of scientific research. Among them, the AI language model represented by ChatGPT has made great progress. Such large language models (LLMs) serve people in the form of AI-generated content (AIGC) and are widely used in consulting, healthcare, and education. However, it is difficult to guarantee the authenticity and reliability of AIGC learning data. In addition, there are also hidden dangers of privacy disclosure in distributed AI training. Moreover, the content generated by LLMs is difficult to identify and trace, and it is difficult to cross-platform mutual recognition. The above information security issues in the coming era of AI powered by LLMs will be infinitely amplified and affect everyone's life. Therefore, we consider empowering LLMs using blockchain technology with superior security features to propose a vision for trusted AI. This paper mainly introduces the motivation and technical route of blockchain for LLM (BC4LLM), including reliable learning corpus, secure training process, and identifiable generated content. Meanwhile, this paper also reviews the potential applications and future challenges, especially in the frontier communication networks field, including network resource allocation, dynamic spectrum sharing, and semantic communication. Based on the above work combined and the prospect of blockchain and LLMs, it is expected to help the early realization of trusted AI and provide guidance for the academic community. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Stability of FFLS-based diffusion adaptive filter under a cooperative  excitation condition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06287  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we consider the distributed filtering problem over sensor networks such that all sensors cooperatively track unknown time-varying parameters by using local information. A distributed forgetting factor least squares (FFLS) algorithm is proposed by minimizing a local cost function formulated as a linear combination of accumulative estimation error. Stability analysis of the algorithm is provided under a cooperative excitation condition which contains spatial union information to reflect the cooperative effect of all sensors. Furthermore, we generalize theoretical results to the case of Markovian switching directed graphs. The main difficulties of theoretical analysis lie in how to analyze properties of the product of non-independent and non-stationary random matrices. Some techniques such as stability theory, algebraic graph theory and Markov chain theory are employed to deal with the above issue. Our theoretical results are obtained without relying on the independency or stationarity assumptions of regression vectors which are commonly used in existing literature. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Gem5Pred: Predictive Approaches For Gem5 Simulation Time  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06290  
**Abstract:** Gem5, an open-source, flexible, and cost-effective simulator, is widely recognized and utilized in both academic and industry fields for hardware simulation. However, the typically time-consuming nature of simulating programs on Gem5 underscores the need for a predictive model that can estimate simulation time. As of now, no such dataset or model exists. In response to this gap, this paper makes a novel contribution by introducing a unique dataset specifically created for this purpose. We also conducted analysis of the effects of different instruction types on the simulation time in Gem5. After this, we employ three distinct models leveraging CodeBERT to execute the prediction task based on the developed dataset. Our superior regression model achieves a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 0.546, while our top-performing classification model records an Accuracy of 0.696. Our models establish a foundation for future investigations on this topic, serving as benchmarks against which subsequent models can be compared. We hope that our contribution can simulate further research in this field. The dataset we used is available at https://github.com/XueyangLiOSU/Gem5Pred. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Dobby: A Conversational Service Robot Driven by GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06303  
**Abstract:** This work introduces a robotics platform which embeds a conversational AI agent in an embodied system for natural language understanding and intelligent decision-making for service tasks; integrating task planning and human-like conversation. The agent is derived from a large language model, which has learned from a vast corpus of general knowledge. In addition to generating dialogue, this agent can interface with the physical world by invoking commands on the robot; seamlessly merging communication and behavior. This system is demonstrated in a free-form tour-guide scenario, in an HRI study combining robots with and without conversational AI capabilities. Performance is measured along five dimensions: overall effectiveness, exploration abilities, scrutinization abilities, receptiveness to personification, and adaptability. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Can LLMs Demystify Bug Reports?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06310  
**Abstract:** Bugs are notoriously challenging: they slow down software users and result in time-consuming investigations for developers. These challenges are exacerbated when bugs must be reported in natural language by users. Indeed, we lack reliable tools to automatically address reported bugs (i.e., enabling their analysis, reproduction, and bug fixing). With the recent promises created by LLMs such as ChatGPT for various tasks, including in software engineering, we ask ourselves: What if ChatGPT could understand bug reports and reproduce them? This question will be the main focus of this study. To evaluate whether ChatGPT is capable of catching the semantics of bug reports, we used the popular Defects4J benchmark with its bug reports. Our study has shown that ChatGPT was able to demystify and reproduce 50% of the reported bugs. ChatGPT being able to automatically address half of the reported bugs shows promising potential in the direction of applying machine learning to address bugs with only a human-in-the-loop to report the bug. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Improving Compositional Text-to-image Generation with Large  Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06311  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in text-to-image models, particularly diffusion models, have shown significant promise. However, compositional text-to-image models frequently encounter difficulties in generating high-quality images that accurately align with input texts describing multiple objects, variable attributes, and intricate spatial relationships. To address this limitation, we employ large vision-language models (LVLMs) for multi-dimensional assessment of the alignment between generated images and their corresponding input texts. Utilizing this assessment, we fine-tune the diffusion model to enhance its alignment capabilities. During the inference phase, an initial image is produced using the fine-tuned diffusion model. The LVLM is then employed to pinpoint areas of misalignment in the initial image, which are subsequently corrected using the image editing algorithm until no further misalignments are detected by the LVLM. The resultant image is consequently more closely aligned with the input text. Our experimental results validate that the proposed methodology significantly improves text-image alignment in compositional image generation, particularly with respect to object number, attribute binding, spatial relationships, and aesthetic quality. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Advancing Pose-Guided Image Synthesis with Progressive Conditional  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06313  
**Abstract:** Recent work has showcased the significant potential of diffusion models in pose-guided person image synthesis. However, owing to the inconsistency in pose between the source and target images, synthesizing an image with a distinct pose, relying exclusively on the source image and target pose information, remains a formidable challenge. This paper presents Progressive Conditional Diffusion Models (PCDMs) that incrementally bridge the gap between person images under the target and source poses through three stages. Specifically, in the first stage, we design a simple prior conditional diffusion model that predicts the global features of the target image by mining the global alignment relationship between pose coordinates and image appearance. Then, the second stage establishes a dense correspondence between the source and target images using the global features from the previous stage, and an inpainting conditional diffusion model is proposed to further align and enhance the contextual features, generating a coarse-grained person image. In the third stage, we propose a refining conditional diffusion model to utilize the coarsely generated image from the previous stage as a condition, achieving texture restoration and enhancing fine-detail consistency. The three-stage PCDMs work progressively to generate the final high-quality and high-fidelity synthesized image. Both qualitative and quantitative results demonstrate the consistency and photorealism of our proposed PCDMs under challenging scenarios.The code and model will be available at https://github.com/muzishen/PCDMs. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Automatic Generation of Test Cases based on Bug Reports: a Feasibility  Study with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06320  
**Abstract:** Software testing is a core discipline in software engineering where a large array of research results has been produced, notably in the area of automatic test generation. Because existing approaches produce test cases that either can be qualified as simple (e.g. unit tests) or that require precise specifications, most testing procedures still rely on test cases written by humans to form test suites. Such test suites, however, are incomplete: they only cover parts of the project or they are produced after the bug is fixed. Yet, several research challenges, such as automatic program repair, and practitioner processes, build on the assumption that available test suites are sufficient. There is thus a need to break existing barriers in automatic test case generation. While prior work largely focused on random unit testing inputs, we propose to consider generating test cases that realistically represent complex user execution scenarios, which reveal buggy behaviour. Such scenarios are informally described in bug reports, which should therefore be considered as natural inputs for specifying bug-triggering test cases. In this work, we investigate the feasibility of performing this generation by leveraging large language models (LLMs) and using bug reports as inputs. Our experiments include the use of ChatGPT, as an online service, as well as CodeGPT, a code-related pre-trained LLM that was fine-tuned for our task. Overall, we experimentally show that bug reports associated to up to 50% of Defects4J bugs can prompt ChatGPT to generate an executable test case. We show that even new bug reports can indeed be used as input for generating executable test cases. Finally, we report experimental results which confirm that LLM-generated test cases are immediately useful in software engineering tasks such as fault localization as well as patch validation in automated program repair. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Predicting Three Types of Freezing of Gait Events Using Deep Learning  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06322  
**Abstract:** Freezing of gait is a Parkinson's Disease symptom that episodically inflicts a patient with the inability to step or turn while walking. While medical experts have discovered various triggers and alleviating actions for freezing of gait, the underlying causes and prediction models are still being explored today. Current freezing of gait prediction models that utilize machine learning achieve high sensitivity and specificity in freezing of gait predictions based on time-series data; however, these models lack specifications on the type of freezing of gait events. We develop various deep learning models using the transformer encoder architecture plus Bidirectional LSTM layers and different feature sets to predict the three different types of freezing of gait events. The best performing model achieves a score of 0.427 on testing data, which would rank top 5 in Kaggle's Freezing of Gait prediction competition, hosted by THE MICHAEL J. FOX FOUNDATION. However, we also recognize overfitting in training data that could be potentially improved through pseudo labelling on additional data and model architecture simplification. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Boosting Continuous Control with Consistency Policy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06343  
**Abstract:** Due to its training stability and strong expression, the diffusion model has attracted considerable attention in offline reinforcement learning. However, several challenges have also come with it: 1) The demand for a large number of diffusion steps makes the diffusion-model-based methods time inefficient and limits their applications in real-time control; 2) How to achieve policy improvement with accurate guidance for diffusion model-based policy is still an open problem. Inspired by the consistency model, we propose a novel time-efficiency method named Consistency Policy with Q-Learning (CPQL), which derives action from noise by a single step. By establishing a mapping from the reverse diffusion trajectories to the desired policy, we simultaneously address the issues of time efficiency and inaccurate guidance when updating diffusion model-based policy with the learned Q-function. We demonstrate that CPQL can achieve policy improvement with accurate guidance for offline reinforcement learning, and can be seamlessly extended for online RL tasks. Experimental results indicate that CPQL achieves new state-of-the-art performance on 11 offline and 21 online tasks, significantly improving inference speed by nearly 45 times compared to Diffusion-QL. We will release our code later. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** JointNet: Extending Text-to-Image Diffusion for Dense Distribution  Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06347  
**Abstract:** We introduce JointNet, a novel neural network architecture for modeling the joint distribution of images and an additional dense modality (e.g., depth maps). JointNet is extended from a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model, where a copy of the original network is created for the new dense modality branch and is densely connected with the RGB branch. The RGB branch is locked during network fine-tuning, which enables efficient learning of the new modality distribution while maintaining the strong generalization ability of the large-scale pre-trained diffusion model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of JointNet by using RGBD diffusion as an example and through extensive experiments, showcasing its applicability in a variety of applications, including joint RGBD generation, dense depth prediction, depth-conditioned image generation, and coherent tile-based 3D panorama generation. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Multi-Modal Knowledge Graph Transformer Framework for Multi-Modal Entity  Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06365  
**Abstract:** Multi-Modal Entity Alignment (MMEA) is a critical task that aims to identify equivalent entity pairs across multi-modal knowledge graphs (MMKGs). However, this task faces challenges due to the presence of different types of information, including neighboring entities, multi-modal attributes, and entity types. Directly incorporating the above information (e.g., concatenation or attention) can lead to an unaligned information space. To address these challenges, we propose a novel MMEA transformer, called MoAlign, that hierarchically introduces neighbor features, multi-modal attributes, and entity types to enhance the alignment task. Taking advantage of the transformer's ability to better integrate multiple information, we design a hierarchical modifiable self-attention block in a transformer encoder to preserve the unique semantics of different information. Furthermore, we design two entity-type prefix injection methods to integrate entity-type information using type prefixes, which help to restrict the global information of entities not present in the MMKGs. Our extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate that our approach outperforms strong competitors and achieves excellent entity alignment performance. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Leveraging Diffusion-Based Image Variations for Robust Training on  Poisoned Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06372  
**Abstract:** Backdoor attacks pose a serious security threat for training neural networks as they surreptitiously introduce hidden functionalities into a model. Such backdoors remain silent during inference on clean inputs, evading detection due to inconspicuous behavior. However, once a specific trigger pattern appears in the input data, the backdoor activates, causing the model to execute its concealed function. Detecting such poisoned samples within vast datasets is virtually impossible through manual inspection. To address this challenge, we propose a novel approach that enables model training on potentially poisoned datasets by utilizing the power of recent diffusion models. Specifically, we create synthetic variations of all training samples, leveraging the inherent resilience of diffusion models to potential trigger patterns in the data. By combining this generative approach with knowledge distillation, we produce student models that maintain their general performance on the task while exhibiting robust resistance to backdoor triggers. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** 3DS-SLAM: A 3D Object Detection based Semantic SLAM towards Dynamic  Indoor Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06385  
**Abstract:** The existence of variable factors within the environment can cause a decline in camera localization accuracy, as it violates the fundamental assumption of a static environment in Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithms. Recent semantic SLAM systems towards dynamic environments either rely solely on 2D semantic information, or solely on geometric information, or combine their results in a loosely integrated manner. In this research paper, we introduce 3DS-SLAM, 3D Semantic SLAM, tailored for dynamic scenes with visual 3D object detection. The 3DS-SLAM is a tightly-coupled algorithm resolving both semantic and geometric constraints sequentially. We designed a 3D part-aware hybrid transformer for point cloud-based object detection to identify dynamic objects. Subsequently, we propose a dynamic feature filter based on HDBSCAN clustering to extract objects with significant absolute depth differences. When compared against ORB-SLAM2, 3DS-SLAM exhibits an average improvement of 98.01% across the dynamic sequences of the TUM RGB-D dataset. Furthermore, it surpasses the performance of the other four leading SLAM systems designed for dynamic environments. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Learning Stackable and Skippable LEGO Bricks for Efficient,  Reconfigurable, and Variable-Resolution Diffusion Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06389  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models excel at generating photo-realistic images but come with significant computational costs in both training and sampling. While various techniques address these computational challenges, a less-explored issue is designing an efficient and adaptable network backbone for iterative refinement. Current options like U-Net and Vision Transformer often rely on resource-intensive deep networks and lack the flexibility needed for generating images at variable resolutions or with a smaller network than used in training. This study introduces LEGO bricks, which seamlessly integrate Local-feature Enrichment and Global-content Orchestration. These bricks can be stacked to create a test-time reconfigurable diffusion backbone, allowing selective skipping of bricks to reduce sampling costs and generate higher-resolution images than the training data. LEGO bricks enrich local regions with an MLP and transform them using a Transformer block while maintaining a consistent full-resolution image across all bricks. Experimental results demonstrate that LEGO bricks enhance training efficiency, expedite convergence, and facilitate variable-resolution image generation while maintaining strong generative performance. Moreover, LEGO significantly reduces sampling time compared to other methods, establishing it as a valuable enhancement for diffusion models. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Improved prompting and process for writing user personas with LLMs,  using qualitative interviews: Capturing behaviour and personality traits of  users  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06391  
**Abstract:** This draft paper presents a workflow for creating User Personas with Large Language Models, using the results of a Thematic Analysis of qualitative interviews. The proposed workflow uses improved prompting and a larger pool of Themes, compared to previous work conducted by the author for the same task. This is possible due to the capabilities of a recently released LLM which allows the processing of 16 thousand tokens (GPT3.5-Turbo-16k) and also due to the possibility to offer a refined prompting for the creation of Personas. The paper offers details of performing Phase 2 and 3 of Thematic Analysis, and then discusses the improved workflow for creating Personas. The paper also offers some reflections on the relationship between the proposed process and existing approaches to Personas such as the data-driven and qualitative Personas. Moreover, the paper offers reflections on the capacity of LLMs to capture user behaviours and personality traits, from the underlying dataset of qualitative interviews used for the analysis. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Humans and language models diverge when predicting repeating text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06408  
**Abstract:** Language models that are trained on the next-word prediction task have been shown to accurately model human behavior in word prediction and reading speed. In contrast with these findings, we present a scenario in which the performance of humans and LMs diverges. We collected a dataset of human next-word predictions for five stimuli that are formed by repeating spans of text. Human and GPT-2 LM predictions are strongly aligned in the first presentation of a text span, but their performance quickly diverges when memory (or in-context learning) begins to play a role. We traced the cause of this divergence to specific attention heads in a middle layer. Adding a power-law recency bias to these attention heads yielded a model that performs much more similarly to humans. We hope that this scenario will spur future work in bringing LMs closer to human behavior. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Encoder-Decoder-Based Intra-Frame Block Partitioning Decision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06412  
**Abstract:** The recursive intra-frame block partitioning decision process, a crucial component of the next-generation video coding standards, exerts significant influence over the encoding time. In this paper, we propose an encoder-decoder neural network (NN) to accelerate this process. Specifically, a CNN is utilized to compress the pixel data of the largest coding unit (LCU) into a fixed-length vector. Subsequently, a Transformer decoder is employed to transcribe the fixed-length vector into a variable-length vector, which represents the block partitioning outcomes of the encoding LCU. The vector transcription process adheres to the constraints imposed by the block partitioning algorithm. By fully parallelizing the NN prediction in the intra-mode decision, substantial time savings can be attained during the decision phase. The experimental results obtained from high-definition (HD) sequences coding demonstrate that this framework achieves a remarkable 87.84\% reduction in encoding time, with a relatively small loss (8.09\%) of coding performance compared to AVS3 HPM4.0. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Advective Diffusion Transformers for Topological Generalization in Graph  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06417  
**Abstract:** Graph diffusion equations are intimately related to graph neural networks (GNNs) and have recently attracted attention as a principled framework for analyzing GNN dynamics, formalizing their expressive power, and justifying architectural choices. One key open questions in graph learning is the generalization capabilities of GNNs. A major limitation of current approaches hinges on the assumption that the graph topologies in the training and test sets come from the same distribution. In this paper, we make steps towards understanding the generalization of GNNs by exploring how graph diffusion equations extrapolate and generalize in the presence of varying graph topologies. We first show deficiencies in the generalization capability of existing models built upon local diffusion on graphs, stemming from the exponential sensitivity to topology variation. Our subsequent analysis reveals the promise of non-local diffusion, which advocates for feature propagation over fully-connected latent graphs, under the assumption of a specific data-generating condition. In addition to these findings, we propose a novel graph encoder backbone, Advective Diffusion Transformer (ADiT), inspired by advective graph diffusion equations that have a closed-form solution backed up with theoretical guarantees of desired generalization under topological distribution shifts. The new model, functioning as a versatile graph Transformer, demonstrates superior performance across a wide range of graph learning tasks. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** AnoDODE: Anomaly Detection with Diffusion ODE  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06420  
**Abstract:** Anomaly detection is the process of identifying atypical data samples that significantly deviate from the majority of the dataset. In the realm of clinical screening and diagnosis, detecting abnormalities in medical images holds great importance. Typically, clinical practice provides access to a vast collection of normal images, while abnormal images are relatively scarce. We hypothesize that abnormal images and their associated features tend to manifest in low-density regions of the data distribution. Following this assumption, we turn to diffusion ODEs for unsupervised anomaly detection, given their tractability and superior performance in density estimation tasks. More precisely, we propose a new anomaly detection method based on diffusion ODEs by estimating the density of features extracted from multi-scale medical images. Our anomaly scoring mechanism depends on computing the negative log-likelihood of features extracted from medical images at different scales, quantified in bits per dimension. Furthermore, we propose a reconstruction-based anomaly localization suitable for our method. Our proposed method not only identifie anomalies but also provides interpretability at both the image and pixel levels. Through experiments on the BraTS2021 medical dataset, our proposed method outperforms existing methods. These results confirm the effectiveness and robustness of our method. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Large Language Models for Propaganda Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06422  
**Abstract:** The prevalence of propaganda in our digital society poses a challenge to societal harmony and the dissemination of truth. Detecting propaganda through NLP in text is challenging due to subtle manipulation techniques and contextual dependencies. To address this issue, we investigate the effectiveness of modern Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 and GPT-4 for propaganda detection. We conduct experiments using the SemEval-2020 task 11 dataset, which features news articles labeled with 14 propaganda techniques as a multi-label classification problem. Five variations of GPT-3 and GPT-4 are employed, incorporating various prompt engineering and fine-tuning strategies across the different models. We evaluate the models' performance by assessing metrics such as $F1$ score, $Precision$, and $Recall$, comparing the results with the current state-of-the-art approach using RoBERTa. Our findings demonstrate that GPT-4 achieves comparable results to the current state-of-the-art. Further, this study analyzes the potential and challenges of LLMs in complex tasks like propaganda detection. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Understanding the Effects of RLHF on LLM Generalisation and Diversity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06452  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) fine-tuned with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) have been used in some of the most widely deployed AI models to date, such as OpenAI's ChatGPT, Anthropic's Claude, or Meta's LLaMA-2. While there has been significant work developing these methods, our understanding of the benefits and downsides of each stage in RLHF is still limited. To fill this gap, we present an extensive analysis of how each stage of the process (i.e. supervised fine-tuning (SFT), reward modelling, and RLHF) affects two key properties: out-of-distribution (OOD) generalisation and output diversity. OOD generalisation is crucial given the wide range of real-world scenarios in which these models are being used, while output diversity refers to the model's ability to generate varied outputs and is important for a variety of use cases. We perform our analysis across two base models on both summarisation and instruction following tasks, the latter being highly relevant for current LLM use cases. We find that RLHF generalises better than SFT to new inputs, particularly as the distribution shift between train and test becomes larger. However, RLHF significantly reduces output diversity compared to SFT across a variety of measures, implying a tradeoff in current LLM fine-tuning methods between generalisation and diversity. Our results provide guidance on which fine-tuning method should be used depending on the application, and show that more research is needed to improve the trade-off between generalisation and diversity. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Focus on Local Regions for Query-based Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06470  
**Abstract:** Query-based methods have garnered significant attention in object detection since the advent of DETR, the pioneering end-to-end query-based detector. However, these methods face challenges like slow convergence and suboptimal performance. Notably, self-attention in object detection often hampers convergence due to its global focus. To address these issues, we propose FoLR, a transformer-like architecture with only decoders. We enhance the self-attention mechanism by isolating connections between irrelevant objects that makes it focus on local regions but not global regions. We also design the adaptive sampling method to extract effective features based on queries' local regions from feature maps. Additionally, we employ a look-back strategy for decoders to retain prior information, followed by the Feature Mixer module to fuse features and queries. Experimental results demonstrate FoLR's state-of-the-art performance in query-based detectors, excelling in convergence speed and computational efficiency. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Multilingual Jailbreak Challenges in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06474  
**Abstract:** While large language models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable capabilities across a wide range of tasks, they pose potential safety concerns, such as the ``jailbreak'' problem, wherein malicious instructions can manipulate LLMs to exhibit undesirable behavior. Although several preventive measures have been developed to mitigate the potential risks associated with LLMs, they have primarily focused on English data. In this study, we reveal the presence of multilingual jailbreak challenges within LLMs and consider two potential risk scenarios: unintentional and intentional. The unintentional scenario involves users querying LLMs using non-English prompts and inadvertently bypassing the safety mechanisms, while the intentional scenario concerns malicious users combining malicious instructions with multilingual prompts to deliberately attack LLMs. The experimental results reveal that in the unintentional scenario, the rate of unsafe content increases as the availability of languages decreases. Specifically, low-resource languages exhibit three times the likelihood of encountering harmful content compared to high-resource languages, with both ChatGPT and GPT-4. In the intentional scenario, multilingual prompts can exacerbate the negative impact of malicious instructions, with astonishingly high rates of unsafe output: 80.92\% for ChatGPT and 40.71\% for GPT-4. To handle such a challenge in the multilingual context, we propose a novel \textsc{Self-Defense} framework that automatically generates multilingual training data for safety fine-tuning. Experimental results show that ChatGPT fine-tuned with such data can achieve a substantial reduction in unsafe content generation. Data is available at https://github.com/DAMO-NLP-SG/multilingual-safety-for-LLMs. Warning: This paper contains examples with potentially harmful content. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** SpikeCLIP: A Contrastive Language-Image Pretrained Spiking Neural  Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06488  
**Abstract:** Spiking neural networks (SNNs) have demonstrated the capability to achieve comparable performance to deep neural networks (DNNs) in both visual and linguistic domains while offering the advantages of improved energy efficiency and adherence to biological plausibility. However, the extension of such single-modality SNNs into the realm of multimodal scenarios remains an unexplored territory. Drawing inspiration from the concept of contrastive language-image pre-training (CLIP), we introduce a novel framework, named SpikeCLIP, to address the gap between two modalities within the context of spike-based computing through a two-step recipe involving ``Alignment Pre-training + Dual-Loss Fine-tuning". Extensive experiments demonstrate that SNNs achieve comparable results to their DNN counterparts while significantly reducing energy consumption across a variety of datasets commonly used for multimodal model evaluation. Furthermore, SpikeCLIP maintains robust performance in image classification tasks that involve class labels not predefined within specific categories. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** A New Benchmark and Reverse Validation Method for Passage-level  Hallucination Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06498  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their ability to collaborate effectively with humans in real-world scenarios. However, LLMs are apt to generate hallucinations, i.e., makeup incorrect text and unverified information, which can cause significant damage when deployed for mission-critical tasks. In this paper, we propose a self-check approach based on reverse validation to detect factual errors automatically in a zero-resource fashion. To facilitate future studies and assess different methods, we construct a hallucination detection benchmark, which is generated by ChatGPT and annotated by human annotators. Contrasting previous studies of zero-resource hallucination detection, our method and benchmark concentrate on passage-level detection instead of sentence-level. We empirically evaluate our method and existing zero-resource detection methods on different domains of benchmark to explore the implicit relation between hallucination and training data. Furthermore, we manually analyze some hallucination cases that LLM failed to capture, revealing the shared limitation of zero-resource methods. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** The Limits of ChatGPT in Extracting Aspect-Category-Opinion-Sentiment  Quadruples: A Comparative Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06502  
**Abstract:** Recently, ChatGPT has attracted great attention from both industry and academia due to its surprising abilities in natural language understanding and generation. We are particularly curious about whether it can achieve promising performance on one of the most complex tasks in aspect-based sentiment analysis, i.e., extracting aspect-category-opinion-sentiment quadruples from texts. To this end, in this paper we develop a specialized prompt template that enables ChatGPT to effectively tackle this complex quadruple extraction task. Further, we propose a selection method on few-shot examples to fully exploit the in-context learning ability of ChatGPT and uplift its effectiveness on this complex task. Finally, we provide a comparative evaluation on ChatGPT against existing state-of-the-art quadruple extraction models based on four public datasets and highlight some important findings regarding the capability boundaries of ChatGPT in the quadruple extraction. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Evaluation of ChatGPT Feedback on ELL Writers' Coherence and Cohesion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06505  
**Abstract:** Since its launch in November 2022, ChatGPT has had a transformative effect on education where students are using it to help with homework assignments and teachers are actively employing it in their teaching practices. This includes using ChatGPT as a tool for writing teachers to grade and generate feedback on students' essays. In this study, we evaluated the quality of the feedback generated by ChatGPT regarding the coherence and cohesion of the essays written by English Language Learners (ELLs) students. We selected 50 argumentative essays and generated feedback on coherence and cohesion using the ELLIPSE rubric. During the feedback evaluation, we used a two-step approach: first, each sentence in the feedback was classified into subtypes based on its function (e.g., positive reinforcement, problem statement). Next, we evaluated its accuracy and usability according to these types. Both the analysis of feedback types and the evaluation of accuracy and usability revealed that most feedback sentences were highly abstract and generic, failing to provide concrete suggestions for improvement. The accuracy in detecting major problems, such as repetitive ideas and the inaccurate use of cohesive devices, depended on superficial linguistic features and was often incorrect. In conclusion, ChatGPT, without specific training for the feedback generation task, does not offer effective feedback on ELL students' coherence and cohesion. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Perceptual MAE for Image Manipulation Localization: A High-level Vision  Learner Focusing on Low-level Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06525  
**Abstract:** Nowadays, multimedia forensics faces unprecedented challenges due to the rapid advancement of multimedia generation technology thereby making Image Manipulation Localization (IML) crucial in the pursuit of truth. The key to IML lies in revealing the artifacts or inconsistencies between the tampered and authentic areas, which are evident under pixel-level features. Consequently, existing studies treat IML as a low-level vision task, focusing on allocating tampered masks by crafting pixel-level features such as image RGB noises, edge signals, or high-frequency features. However, in practice, tampering commonly occurs at the object level, and different classes of objects have varying likelihoods of becoming targets of tampering. Therefore, object semantics are also vital in identifying the tampered areas in addition to pixel-level features. This necessitates IML models to carry out a semantic understanding of the entire image. In this paper, we reformulate the IML task as a high-level vision task that greatly benefits from low-level features. Based on such an interpretation, we propose a method to enhance the Masked Autoencoder (MAE) by incorporating high-resolution inputs and a perceptual loss supervision module, which is termed Perceptual MAE (PMAE). While MAE has demonstrated an impressive understanding of object semantics, PMAE can also compensate for low-level semantics with our proposed enhancements. Evidenced by extensive experiments, this paradigm effectively unites the low-level and high-level features of the IML task and outperforms state-of-the-art tampering localization methods on all five publicly available datasets. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** A Novel Contrastive Learning Method for Clickbait Detection on RoCliCo:  A Romanian Clickbait Corpus of News Articles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06540  
**Abstract:** To increase revenue, news websites often resort to using deceptive news titles, luring users into clicking on the title and reading the full news. Clickbait detection is the task that aims to automatically detect this form of false advertisement and avoid wasting the precious time of online users. Despite the importance of the task, to the best of our knowledge, there is no publicly available clickbait corpus for the Romanian language. To this end, we introduce a novel Romanian Clickbait Corpus (RoCliCo) comprising 8,313 news samples which are manually annotated with clickbait and non-clickbait labels. Furthermore, we conduct experiments with four machine learning methods, ranging from handcrafted models to recurrent and transformer-based neural networks, to establish a line-up of competitive baselines. We also carry out experiments with a weighted voting ensemble. Among the considered baselines, we propose a novel BERT-based contrastive learning model that learns to encode news titles and contents into a deep metric space such that titles and contents of non-clickbait news have high cosine similarity, while titles and contents of clickbait news have low cosine similarity. Our data set and code to reproduce the baselines are publicly available for download at https://github.com/dariabroscoteanu/RoCliCo. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Automated clinical coding using off-the-shelf large language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06552  
**Abstract:** The task of assigning diagnostic ICD codes to patient hospital admissions is typically performed by expert human coders. Efforts towards automated ICD coding are dominated by supervised deep learning models. However, difficulties in learning to predict the large number of rare codes remain a barrier to adoption in clinical practice. In this work, we leverage off-the-shelf pre-trained generative large language models (LLMs) to develop a practical solution that is suitable for zero-shot and few-shot code assignment. Unsupervised pre-training alone does not guarantee precise knowledge of the ICD ontology and specialist clinical coding task, therefore we frame the task as information extraction, providing a description of each coded concept and asking the model to retrieve related mentions. For efficiency, rather than iterating over all codes, we leverage the hierarchical nature of the ICD ontology to sparsely search for relevant codes. Then, in a second stage, which we term 'meta-refinement', we utilise GPT-4 to select a subset of the relevant labels as predictions. We validate our method using Llama-2, GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 on the CodiEsp dataset of ICD-coded clinical case documents. Our tree-search method achieves state-of-the-art performance on rarer classes, achieving the best macro-F1 of 0.225, whilst achieving slightly lower micro-F1 of 0.157, compared to 0.216 and 0.219 respectively from PLM-ICD. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first method for automated ICD coding requiring no task-specific learning. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Gender, Age, and Technology Education Influence the Adoption and  Appropriation of LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06556  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have become increasingly integrated into critical activities of daily life, raising concerns about equitable access and utilization across diverse demographics. This study investigates the usage of LLMs among 1,500 representative US citizens. Remarkably, 42% of participants reported utilizing an LLM. Our findings reveal a gender gap in LLM technology adoption (more male users than female users) with complex interaction patterns regarding age. Technology-related education eliminates the gender gap in our sample. Moreover, expert users are more likely than novices to list professional tasks as typical application scenarios, suggesting discrepancies in effective usage at the workplace. These results underscore the importance of providing education in artificial intelligence in our technology-driven society to promote equitable access to and benefits from LLMs. We urge for both international replication beyond the US and longitudinal observation of adoption. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Robustness May be More Brittle than We Think under Different Degrees of  Distribution Shifts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06622  
**Abstract:** Out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization is a complicated problem due to the idiosyncrasies of possible distribution shifts between training and test domains. Most benchmarks employ diverse datasets to address this issue; however, the degree of the distribution shift between the training domains and the test domains of each dataset remains largely fixed. This may lead to biased conclusions that either underestimate or overestimate the actual OOD performance of a model. Our study delves into a more nuanced evaluation setting that covers a broad range of shift degrees. We show that the robustness of models can be quite brittle and inconsistent under different degrees of distribution shifts, and therefore one should be more cautious when drawing conclusions from evaluations under a limited range of degrees. In addition, we observe that large-scale pre-trained models, such as CLIP, are sensitive to even minute distribution shifts of novel downstream tasks. This indicates that while pre-trained representations may help improve downstream in-distribution performance, they could have minimal or even adverse effects on generalization in certain OOD scenarios of the downstream task if not used properly. In light of these findings, we encourage future research to conduct evaluations across a broader range of shift degrees whenever possible. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** iTransformer: Inverted Transformers Are Effective for Time Series  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06625  
**Abstract:** The recent boom of linear forecasting models questions the ongoing passion for architectural modifications of Transformer-based forecasters. These forecasters leverage Transformers to model the global dependencies over temporal tokens of time series, with each token formed by multiple variates of the same timestamp. However, Transformer is challenged in forecasting series with larger lookback windows due to performance degradation and computation explosion. Besides, the unified embedding for each temporal token fuses multiple variates with potentially unaligned timestamps and distinct physical measurements, which may fail in learning variate-centric representations and result in meaningless attention maps. In this work, we reflect on the competent duties of Transformer components and repurpose the Transformer architecture without any adaptation on the basic components. We propose iTransformer that simply inverts the duties of the attention mechanism and the feed-forward network. Specifically, the time points of individual series are embedded into variate tokens which are utilized by the attention mechanism to capture multivariate correlations; meanwhile, the feed-forward network is applied for each variate token to learn nonlinear representations. The iTransformer model achieves consistent state-of-the-art on several real-world datasets, which further empowers the Transformer family with promoted performance, generalization ability across different variates, and better utilization of arbitrary lookback windows, making it a nice alternative as the fundamental backbone of time series forecasting. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** What If the TV Was Off? Examining Counterfactual Reasoning Abilities of  Multi-modal Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06627  
**Abstract:** Counterfactual reasoning ability is one of the core abilities of human intelligence. This reasoning process involves the processing of alternatives to observed states or past events, and this process can improve our ability for planning and decision-making. In this work, we focus on benchmarking the counterfactual reasoning ability of multi-modal large language models. We take the question and answer pairs from the VQAv2 dataset and add one counterfactual presupposition to the questions, with the answer being modified accordingly. After generating counterfactual questions and answers using ChatGPT, we manually examine all generated questions and answers to ensure correctness. Over 2k counterfactual question and answer pairs are collected this way. We evaluate recent vision language models on our newly collected test dataset and found that all models exhibit a large performance drop compared to the results tested on questions without the counterfactual presupposition. This result indicates that there still exists space for developing vision language models. Apart from the vision language models, our proposed dataset can also serves as a benchmark for evaluating the ability of code generation LLMs, results demonstrate a large gap between GPT-4 and current open-source models. Our code and dataset are available at \url{https://github.com/Letian2003/C-VQA}. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** EViT: An Eagle Vision Transformer with Bi-Fovea Self-Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06629  
**Abstract:** Because of the advancement of deep learning technology, vision transformer has demonstrated competitive performance in various computer vision tasks. Unfortunately, vision transformer still faces some challenges such as high computational complexity and absence of desirable inductive bias. To alleviate these problems, this study proposes a novel Bi-Fovea Self-Attention (BFSA) inspired by the physiological structure and characteristics of bi-fovea vision in eagle eyes. This BFSA can simulate the shallow fovea and deep fovea functions of eagle vision, enabling the network to extract feature representations of targets from coarse to fine, facilitating the interaction of multi-scale feature representations. Additionally, this study designs a Bionic Eagle Vision (BEV) block based on BFSA and CNN. It combines CNN and Vision Transformer, to enhance the network's local and global representation ability for targets. Furthermore, this study develops a unified and efficient general pyramid backbone network family, named Eagle Vision Transformers (EViTs) by stacking the BEV blocks. Experimental results on various computer vision tasks including image classification, object detection, instance segmentation and other transfer learning tasks show that the proposed EViTs perform significantly better than the baselines under similar model sizes, which exhibits faster speed on graphics processing unit compared to other models. Code will be released at https://github.com/nkusyl. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Blind Dates: Examining the Expression of Temporality in Historical  Photographs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06633  
**Abstract:** This paper explores the capacity of computer vision models to discern temporal information in visual content, focusing specifically on historical photographs. We investigate the dating of images using OpenCLIP, an open-source implementation of CLIP, a multi-modal language and vision model. Our experiment consists of three steps: zero-shot classification, fine-tuning, and analysis of visual content. We use the \textit{De Boer Scene Detection} dataset, containing 39,866 gray-scale historical press photographs from 1950 to 1999. The results show that zero-shot classification is relatively ineffective for image dating, with a bias towards predicting dates in the past. Fine-tuning OpenCLIP with a logistic classifier improves performance and eliminates the bias. Additionally, our analysis reveals that images featuring buses, cars, cats, dogs, and people are more accurately dated, suggesting the presence of temporal markers. The study highlights the potential of machine learning models like OpenCLIP in dating images and emphasizes the importance of fine-tuning for accurate temporal analysis. Future research should explore the application of these findings to color photographs and diverse datasets. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Forgetful Large Language Models: Lessons Learned from Using LLMs in  Robot Programming  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06646  
**Abstract:** Large language models offer new ways of empowering people to program robot applications-namely, code generation via prompting. However, the code generated by LLMs is susceptible to errors. This work reports a preliminary exploration that empirically characterizes common errors produced by LLMs in robot programming. We categorize these errors into two phases: interpretation and execution. In this work, we focus on errors in execution and observe that they are caused by LLMs being "forgetful" of key information provided in user prompts. Based on this observation, we propose prompt engineering tactics designed to reduce errors in execution. We then demonstrate the effectiveness of these tactics with three language models: ChatGPT, Bard, and LLaMA-2. Finally, we discuss lessons learned from using LLMs in robot programming and call for the benchmarking of LLM-powered end-user development of robot applications. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** A Parallelized, Adam-Based Solver for Reserve and Security Constrained  AC Unit Commitment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06650  
**Abstract:** Power system optimization problems which include the nonlinear AC power flow equations require powerful and robust numerical solution algorithms. Within this sub-field of nonlinear optimization, interior point methods have come to dominate the solver landscape. Over the last decade, however, a number of efficient numerical optimizers have emerged from the field of Machine Learning (ML). One algorithm in particular, Adam, has become the optimizer-of-choice for a massive percentage of ML training problems (including, e.g., the training of GPT-3), solving some of the largest unconstrained optimization problems ever conceived of. Inspired by such progress, this paper designs a parallelized Adam-based numerical solver to overcome one of the most challenging power system optimization problems: security and reserve constrained AC Unit Commitment. The resulting solver, termed quasiGrad, recently competed in the third ARPA-E Grid Optimization (GO3) competition. In the day-ahead market clearing category (with systems ranging from 3 to 23,643 buses over 48 time periods), quasiGrad's aggregated market surplus scores were within 5% of the winningest market surplus scores. The quasiGrad solver is now released as an open-source Julia package: quasiGrad.jl. The internal gradient-based solver (Adam) can easily be substituted for other ML-inspired solvers (e.g., AdaGrad, AdaDelta, RMSProp, etc.). Test results from large experiments are provided. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Tertiary Lymphoid Structures Generation through Graph-based Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06661  
**Abstract:** Graph-based representation approaches have been proven to be successful in the analysis of biomedical data, due to their capability of capturing intricate dependencies between biological entities, such as the spatial organization of different cell types in a tumor tissue. However, to further enhance our understanding of the underlying governing biological mechanisms, it is important to accurately capture the actual distributions of such complex data. Graph-based deep generative models are specifically tailored to accomplish that. In this work, we leverage state-of-the-art graph-based diffusion models to generate biologically meaningful cell-graphs. In particular, we show that the adopted graph diffusion model is able to accurately learn the distribution of cells in terms of their tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) content, a well-established biomarker for evaluating the cancer progression in oncology research. Additionally, we further illustrate the utility of the learned generative models for data augmentation in a TLS classification task. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that leverages the power of graph diffusion models in generating meaningful biological cell structures. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** SC2GAN: Rethinking Entanglement by Self-correcting Correlated GAN Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06667  
**Abstract:** Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) can synthesize realistic images, with the learned latent space shown to encode rich semantic information with various interpretable directions. However, due to the unstructured nature of the learned latent space, it inherits the bias from the training data where specific groups of visual attributes that are not causally related tend to appear together, a phenomenon also known as spurious correlations, e.g., age and eyeglasses or women and lipsticks. Consequently, the learned distribution often lacks the proper modelling of the missing examples. The interpolation following editing directions for one attribute could result in entangled changes with other attributes. To address this problem, previous works typically adjust the learned directions to minimize the changes in other attributes, yet they still fail on strongly correlated features. In this work, we study the entanglement issue in both the training data and the learned latent space for the StyleGAN2-FFHQ model. We propose a novel framework SC$^2$GAN that achieves disentanglement by re-projecting low-density latent code samples in the original latent space and correcting the editing directions based on both the high-density and low-density regions. By leveraging the original meaningful directions and semantic region-specific layers, our framework interpolates the original latent codes to generate images with attribute combination that appears infrequently, then inverts these samples back to the original latent space. We apply our framework to pre-existing methods that learn meaningful latent directions and showcase its strong capability to disentangle the attributes with small amounts of low-density region samples added. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Latent Diffusion Counterfactual Explanations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06668  
**Abstract:** Counterfactual explanations have emerged as a promising method for elucidating the behavior of opaque black-box models. Recently, several works leveraged pixel-space diffusion models for counterfactual generation. To handle noisy, adversarial gradients during counterfactual generation -- causing unrealistic artifacts or mere adversarial perturbations -- they required either auxiliary adversarially robust models or computationally intensive guidance schemes. However, such requirements limit their applicability, e.g., in scenarios with restricted access to the model's training data. To address these limitations, we introduce Latent Diffusion Counterfactual Explanations (LDCE). LDCE harnesses the capabilities of recent class- or text-conditional foundation latent diffusion models to expedite counterfactual generation and focus on the important, semantic parts of the data. Furthermore, we propose a novel consensus guidance mechanism to filter out noisy, adversarial gradients that are misaligned with the diffusion model's implicit classifier. We demonstrate the versatility of LDCE across a wide spectrum of models trained on diverse datasets with different learning paradigms. Finally, we showcase how LDCE can provide insights into model errors, enhancing our understanding of black-box model behavior. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** On the importance of catalyst-adsorbate 3D interactions for relaxed  energy predictions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06682  
**Abstract:** The use of machine learning for material property prediction and discovery has traditionally centered on graph neural networks that incorporate the geometric configuration of all atoms. However, in practice not all this information may be readily available, e.g.~when evaluating the potentially unknown binding of adsorbates to catalyst. In this paper, we investigate whether it is possible to predict a system's relaxed energy in the OC20 dataset while ignoring the relative position of the adsorbate with respect to the electro-catalyst. We consider SchNet, DimeNet++ and FAENet as base architectures and measure the impact of four modifications on model performance: removing edges in the input graph, pooling independent representations, not sharing the backbone weights and using an attention mechanism to propagate non-geometric relative information. We find that while removing binding site information impairs accuracy as expected, modified models are able to predict relaxed energies with remarkably decent MAE. Our work suggests future research directions in accelerated materials discovery where information on reactant configurations can be reduced or altogether omitted. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Joint Coding-Modulation for Digital Semantic Communications via  Variational Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06690  
**Abstract:** Semantic communications have emerged as a new paradigm for improving communication efficiency by transmitting the semantic information of a source message that is most relevant to a desired task at the receiver. Most existing approaches typically utilize neural networks (NNs) to design end-to-end semantic communication systems, where NN-based semantic encoders output continuously distributed signals to be sent directly to the channel in an analog communication fashion. In this work, we propose a joint coding-modulation framework for digital semantic communications by using variational autoencoder (VAE). Our approach learns the transition probability from source data to discrete constellation symbols, thereby avoiding the non-differentiability problem of digital modulation. Meanwhile, by jointly designing the coding and modulation process together, we can match the obtained modulation strategy with the operating channel condition. We also derive a matching loss function with information-theoretic meaning for end-to-end training. Experiments conducted on image semantic communication validate that our proposed joint coding-modulation framework outperforms separate design of semantic coding and modulation under various channel conditions, transmission rates, and modulation orders. Furthermore, its performance gap to analog semantic communication reduces as the modulation order increases while enjoying the hardware implementation convenience. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** HiFi-123: Towards High-fidelity One Image to 3D Content Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06744  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in text-to-image diffusion models have enabled 3D generation from a single image. However, current image-to-3D methods often produce suboptimal results for novel views, with blurred textures and deviations from the reference image, limiting their practical applications. In this paper, we introduce HiFi-123, a method designed for high-fidelity and multi-view consistent 3D generation. Our contributions are twofold: First, we propose a reference-guided novel view enhancement technique that substantially reduces the quality gap between synthesized and reference views. Second, capitalizing on the novel view enhancement, we present a novel reference-guided state distillation loss. When incorporated into the optimization-based image-to-3D pipeline, our method significantly improves 3D generation quality, achieving state-of-the-art performance. Comprehensive evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over existing methods, both qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** SWE-bench: Can Language Models Resolve Real-World GitHub Issues?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06770  
**Abstract:** Language models have outpaced our ability to evaluate them effectively, but for their future development it is essential to study the frontier of their capabilities. We consider real-world software engineering to be a rich, sustainable, and challenging testbed for evaluating the next generation of language models. We therefore introduce SWE-bench, an evaluation framework including $2,294$ software engineering problems drawn from real GitHub issues and corresponding pull requests across $12$ popular Python repositories. Given a codebase along with a description of an issue to be resolved, a language model is tasked with editing the codebase to address the issue. Resolving issues in SWE-bench frequently requires understanding and coordinating changes across multiple functions, classes, and even files simultaneously, calling for models to interact with execution environments, process extremely long contexts and perform complex reasoning that goes far beyond traditional code generation. Our evaluations show that both state-of-the-art proprietary models and our fine-tuned model SWE-Llama can resolve only the simplest issues. Claude 2 and GPT-4 solve a mere $4.8$% and $1.7$% of instances respectively, even when provided with an oracle retriever. Advances on SWE-bench represent steps towards LMs that are more practical, intelligent, and autonomous. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Conceptual Framework for Autonomous Cognitive Entities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06775  
**Abstract:** The rapid development and adoption of Generative AI (GAI) technology in the form of chatbots such as ChatGPT and Claude has greatly increased interest in agentic machines. This paper introduces the Autonomous Cognitive Entity (ACE) model, a novel framework for a cognitive architecture, enabling machines and software agents to operate more independently. Drawing inspiration from the OSI model, the ACE framework presents layers of abstraction to conceptualize artificial cognitive architectures. The model is designed to harness the capabilities of the latest generative AI technologies, including large language models (LLMs) and multimodal generative models (MMMs), to build autonomous, agentic systems. The ACE framework comprises six layers: the Aspirational Layer, Global Strategy, Agent Model, Executive Function, Cognitive Control, and Task Prosecution. Each layer plays a distinct role, ranging from setting the moral compass and strategic thinking to task selection and execution. The ACE framework also incorporates mechanisms for handling failures and adapting actions, thereby enhancing the robustness and flexibility of autonomous agents. This paper introduces the conceptual framework and proposes implementation strategies that have been tested and observed in industry. The goal of this paper is to formalize this framework so as to be more accessible. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Advancing Transformer's Capabilities in Commonsense Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06803  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in general purpose pre-trained language models have shown great potential in commonsense reasoning. However, current works still perform poorly on standard commonsense reasoning benchmarks including the Com2Sense Dataset. We argue that this is due to a disconnect with current cutting-edge machine learning methods. In this work, we aim to bridge the gap by introducing current ML-based methods to improve general purpose pre-trained language models in the task of commonsense reasoning. Specifically, we experiment with and systematically evaluate methods including knowledge transfer, model ensemble, and introducing an additional pairwise contrastive objective. Our best model outperforms the strongest previous works by ~15\% absolute gains in Pairwise Accuracy and ~8.7\% absolute gains in Standard Accuracy. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** What Does Stable Diffusion Know about the 3D Scene?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06836  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in generative models like Stable Diffusion enable the generation of highly photo-realistic images. Our objective in this paper is to probe the diffusion network to determine to what extent it 'understands' different properties of the 3D scene depicted in an image. To this end, we make the following contributions: (i) We introduce a protocol to evaluate whether a network models a number of physical 'properties' of the 3D scene by probing for explicit features that represent these properties. The probes are applied on datasets of real images with annotations for the property. (ii) We apply this protocol to properties covering scene geometry, scene material, support relations, lighting, and view dependent measures. (iii) We find that Stable Diffusion is good at a number of properties including scene geometry, support relations, shadows and depth, but less performant for occlusion. (iv) We also apply the probes to other models trained at large-scale, including DINO and CLIP, and find their performance inferior to that of Stable Diffusion. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Generating and Evaluating Tests for K-12 Students with Language Model  Simulations: A Case Study on Sentence Reading Efficiency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06837  
**Abstract:** Developing an educational test can be expensive and time-consuming, as each item must be written by experts and then evaluated by collecting hundreds of student responses. Moreover, many tests require multiple distinct sets of questions administered throughout the school year to closely monitor students' progress, known as parallel tests. In this study, we focus on tests of silent sentence reading efficiency, used to assess students' reading ability over time. To generate high-quality parallel tests, we propose to fine-tune large language models (LLMs) to simulate how previous students would have responded to unseen items. With these simulated responses, we can estimate each item's difficulty and ambiguity. We first use GPT-4 to generate new test items following a list of expert-developed rules and then apply a fine-tuned LLM to filter the items based on criteria from psychological measurements. We also propose an optimal-transport-inspired technique for generating parallel tests and show the generated tests closely correspond to the original test's difficulty and reliability based on crowdworker responses. Our evaluation of a generated test with 234 students from grades 2 to 8 produces test scores highly correlated (r=0.93) to those of a standard test form written by human experts and evaluated across thousands of K-12 students. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** AutoAD II: The Sequel -- Who, When, and What in Movie Audio Description  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06838  
**Abstract:** Audio Description (AD) is the task of generating descriptions of visual content, at suitable time intervals, for the benefit of visually impaired audiences. For movies, this presents notable challenges -- AD must occur only during existing pauses in dialogue, should refer to characters by name, and ought to aid understanding of the storyline as a whole. To this end, we develop a new model for automatically generating movie AD, given CLIP visual features of the frames, the cast list, and the temporal locations of the speech; addressing all three of the 'who', 'when', and 'what' questions: (i) who -- we introduce a character bank consisting of the character's name, the actor that played the part, and a CLIP feature of their face, for the principal cast of each movie, and demonstrate how this can be used to improve naming in the generated AD; (ii) when -- we investigate several models for determining whether an AD should be generated for a time interval or not, based on the visual content of the interval and its neighbours; and (iii) what -- we implement a new vision-language model for this task, that can ingest the proposals from the character bank, whilst conditioning on the visual features using cross-attention, and demonstrate how this improves over previous architectures for AD text generation in an apples-to-apples comparison. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** LongLLMLingua: Accelerating and Enhancing LLMs in Long Context Scenarios  via Prompt Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06839  
**Abstract:** In long context scenarios, large language models (LLMs) face three main challenges: higher computational/financial cost, longer latency, and inferior performance. Some studies reveal that the performance of LLMs depends on both the density and the position of the key information (question relevant) in the input prompt. Inspired by these findings, we propose LongLLMLingua for prompt compression towards improving LLMs' perception of the key information to simultaneously address the three challenges. We conduct evaluation on a wide range of long context scenarios including single-/multi-document QA, few-shot learning, summarization, synthetic tasks, and code completion. The experimental results show that LongLLMLingua compressed prompt can derive higher performance with much less cost. The latency of the end-to-end system is also reduced. For example, on NaturalQuestions benchmark, LongLLMLingua gains a performance boost of up to 17.1% over the original prompt with ~4x fewer tokens as input to GPT-3.5-Turbo. It can derive cost savings of \$28.5 and \$27.4 per 1,000 samples from the LongBench and ZeroScrolls benchmark, respectively. Additionally, when compressing prompts of ~10k tokens at a compression rate of 2x-10x, LongLLMLingua can speed up the end-to-end latency by 1.4x-3.8x. Our code is available at https://aka.ms/LLMLingua. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** A new economic and financial theory of money  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04986  
**Abstract:** This paper fundamentally reformulates economic and financial theory to include electronic currencies. The valuation of the electronic currencies will be based on macroeconomic theory and the fundamental equation of monetary policy, not the microeconomic theory of discounted cash flows. The view of electronic currency as a transactional equity associated with tangible assets of a sub-economy will be developed, in contrast to the view of stock as an equity associated mostly with intangible assets of a sub-economy. The view will be developed of the electronic currency management firm as an entity responsible for coordinated monetary (electronic currency supply and value stabilization) and fiscal (investment and operational) policies of a substantial (for liquidity of the electronic currency) sub-economy. The risk model used in the valuations and the decision-making will not be the ubiquitous, yet inappropriate, exponential risk model that leads to discount rates, but will be multi time scale models that capture the true risk. The decision-making will be approached from the perspective of true systems control based on a system response function given by the multi scale risk model and system controllers that utilize the Deep Reinforcement Learning, Generative Pretrained Transformers, and other methods of Artificial Intelligence (DRL/GPT/AI). Finally, the sub-economy will be viewed as a nonlinear complex physical system with both stable equilibriums that are associated with short-term exploitation, and unstable equilibriums that need to be stabilized with active nonlinear control based on the multi scale system response functions and DRL/GPT/AI. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Anomalous diffusion and price impact in the fluid-limit of an order book  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06079  
**Abstract:** We extend a Discrete Time Random Walk (DTRW) numerical scheme to simulate the anomalous diffusion of financial market orders in a simulated order book. Here using random walks with Sibuya waiting times to include a time-dependent stochastic forcing function with non-uniformly sampled times between order book events in the setting of fractional diffusion. This models the fluid limit of an order book by modelling the continuous arrival, cancellation and diffusion of orders in the presence of information shocks. We study the impulse response and stylised facts of orders undergoing anomalous diffusion for different forcing functions and model parameters. Concretely, we demonstrate the price impact for flash limit-orders and market orders and show how the numerical method generate kinks in the price impact. We use cubic spline interpolation to generate smoothed price impact curves. The work promotes the use of non-uniform sampling in the presence of diffusive dynamics as the preferred simulation method. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Ito Diffusion Approximation of Universal Ito Chains for Sampling,  Optimization and Boosting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06081  
**Abstract:** This work considers a rather general and broad class of Markov chains, Ito chains that look like Euler-Maryama discretization of some Stochastic Differential Equation. The chain we study is a unified framework for theoretical analysis. It comes with almost arbitrary isotropic and state-dependent noise instead of normal and state-independent one, as in most related papers. Moreover, our chain's drift and diffusion coefficient can be inexact to cover a wide range of applications such as Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics, sampling, Stochastic Gradient Descent, or Stochastic Gradient Boosting. We prove an upper bound for $W_{2}$-distance between laws of the Ito chain and the corresponding Stochastic Differential Equation. These results improve or cover most of the known estimates. Moreover, for some particular cases, our analysis is the first. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** HydraViT: Adaptive Multi-Branch Transformer for Multi-Label Disease  Classification from Chest X-ray Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06143  
**Abstract:** Chest X-ray is an essential diagnostic tool in the identification of chest diseases given its high sensitivity to pathological abnormalities in the lungs. However, image-driven diagnosis is still challenging due to heterogeneity in size and location of pathology, as well as visual similarities and co-occurrence of separate pathology. Since disease-related regions often occupy a relatively small portion of diagnostic images, classification models based on traditional convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are adversely affected given their locality bias. While CNNs were previously augmented with attention maps or spatial masks to guide focus on potentially critical regions, learning localization guidance under heterogeneity in the spatial distribution of pathology is challenging. To improve multi-label classification performance, here we propose a novel method, HydraViT, that synergistically combines a transformer backbone with a multi-branch output module with learned weighting. The transformer backbone enhances sensitivity to long-range context in X-ray images, while using the self-attention mechanism to adaptively focus on task-critical regions. The multi-branch output module dedicates an independent branch to each disease label to attain robust learning across separate disease classes, along with an aggregated branch across labels to maintain sensitivity to co-occurrence relationships among pathology. Experiments demonstrate that, on average, HydraViT outperforms competing attention-guided methods by 1.2%, region-guided methods by 1.4%, and semantic-guided methods by 1.0% in multi-label classification performance. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Data-level hybrid strategy selection for disk fault prediction model  based on multivariate GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06537  
**Abstract:** Data class imbalance is a common problem in classification problems, where minority class samples are often more important and more costly to misclassify in a classification task. Therefore, it is very important to solve the data class imbalance classification problem. The SMART dataset exhibits an evident class imbalance, comprising a substantial quantity of healthy samples and a comparatively limited number of defective samples. This dataset serves as a reliable indicator of the disc's health status. In this paper, we obtain the best balanced disk SMART dataset for a specific classification model by mixing and integrating the data synthesised by multivariate generative adversarial networks (GAN) to balance the disk SMART dataset at the data level; and combine it with genetic algorithms to obtain higher disk fault classification prediction accuracy on a specific classification model. 

