**ID:** 1  
**Title:** BodyFormer: Semantics-guided 3D Body Gesture Synthesis with Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06851  
**Abstract:** Automatic gesture synthesis from speech is a topic that has attracted researchers for applications in remote communication, video games and Metaverse. Learning the mapping between speech and 3D full-body gestures is difficult due to the stochastic nature of the problem and the lack of a rich cross-modal dataset that is needed for training. In this paper, we propose a novel transformer-based framework for automatic 3D body gesture synthesis from speech. To learn the stochastic nature of the body gesture during speech, we propose a variational transformer to effectively model a probabilistic distribution over gestures, which can produce diverse gestures during inference. Furthermore, we introduce a mode positional embedding layer to capture the different motion speeds in different speaking modes. To cope with the scarcity of data, we design an intra-modal pre-training scheme that can learn the complex mapping between the speech and the 3D gesture from a limited amount of data. Our system is trained with either the Trinity speech-gesture dataset or the Talking With Hands 16.2M dataset. The results show that our system can produce more realistic, appropriate, and diverse body gestures compared to existing state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** The Solution for the CVPR2023 NICE Image Captioning Challenge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06879  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present our solution to the New frontiers for Zero-shot Image Captioning Challenge. Different from the traditional image captioning datasets, this challenge includes a larger new variety of visual concepts from many domains (such as COVID-19) as well as various image types (photographs, illustrations, graphics). For the data level, we collect external training data from Laion-5B, a large-scale CLIP-filtered image-text dataset. For the model level, we use OFA, a large-scale visual-language pre-training model based on handcrafted templates, to perform the image captioning task. In addition, we introduce contrastive learning to align image-text pairs to learn new visual concepts in the pre-training stage. Then, we propose a similarity-bucket strategy and incorporate this strategy into the template to force the model to generate higher quality and more matching captions. Finally, by retrieval-augmented strategy, we construct a content-rich template, containing the most relevant top-k captions from other image-text pairs, to guide the model in generating semantic-rich captions. Our method ranks first on the leaderboard, achieving 105.17 and 325.72 Cider-Score in the validation and test phase, respectively. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** A Comparative Study of Transformer-based Neural Text Representation  Techniques on Bug Triaging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06913  
**Abstract:** Often, the first step in managing bug reports is related to triaging a bug to the appropriate developer who is best suited to understand, localize, and fix the target bug. Additionally, assigning a given bug to a particular part of a software project can help to expedite the fixing process. However, despite the importance of these activities, they are quite challenging, where days can be spent on the manual triaging process. Past studies have attempted to leverage the limited textual data of bug reports to train text classification models that automate this process -- to varying degrees of success. However, the textual representations and machine learning models used in prior work are limited by their expressiveness, often failing to capture nuanced textual patterns that might otherwise aid in the triaging process. Recently, large, transformer-based, pre-trained neural text representation techniques such as BERT have achieved greater performance in several natural language processing tasks. However, the potential for using these techniques to improve upon prior approaches for automated bug triaging is not well studied or understood. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Sparse Finetuning for Inference Acceleration of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06927  
**Abstract:** We consider the problem of accurate sparse finetuning of large language models (LLMs), that is, finetuning pretrained LLMs on specialized tasks, while inducing sparsity in their weights. On the accuracy side, we observe that standard loss-based finetuning may fail to recover accuracy, especially at high sparsities. To address this, we perform a detailed study of distillation-type losses, determining an L2-based distillation approach we term SquareHead which enables accurate recovery even at higher sparsities, across all model types. On the practical efficiency side, we show that sparse LLMs can be executed with speedups by taking advantage of sparsity, for both CPU and GPU runtimes. While the standard approach is to leverage sparsity for computational reduction, we observe that in the case of memory-bound LLMs sparsity can also be leveraged for reducing memory bandwidth. We exhibit end-to-end results showing speedups due to sparsity, while recovering accuracy, on T5 (language translation), Whisper (speech translation), and open GPT-type (MPT for text generation). For MPT text generation, we show for the first time that sparse finetuning can reach 75% sparsity without accuracy drops, provide notable end-to-end speedups for both CPU and GPU inference, and highlight that sparsity is also compatible with quantization approaches. Models and software for reproducing our results are provided in Section 6. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Document-Level Supervision for Multi-Aspect Sentiment Analysis Without  Fine-grained Labels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06940  
**Abstract:** Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) is a widely studied topic, most often trained through supervision from human annotations of opinionated texts. These fine-grained annotations include identifying aspects towards which a user expresses their sentiment, and their associated polarities (aspect-based sentiments). Such fine-grained annotations can be expensive and often infeasible to obtain in real-world settings. There is, however, an abundance of scenarios where user-generated text contains an overall sentiment, such as a rating of 1-5 in user reviews or user-generated feedback, which may be leveraged for this task. In this paper, we propose a VAE-based topic modeling approach that performs ABSA using document-level supervision and without requiring fine-grained labels for either aspects or sentiments. Our approach allows for the detection of multiple aspects in a document, thereby allowing for the possibility of reasoning about how sentiment expressed through multiple aspects comes together to form an observable overall document-level sentiment. We demonstrate results on two benchmark datasets from two different domains, significantly outperforming a state-of-the-art baseline. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** A Variational Autoencoder Framework for Robust, Physics-Informed  Cyberattack Recognition in Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06948  
**Abstract:** Cybersecurity of Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems is drawing significant concerns as data communication increasingly leverages wireless networks. A lot of data-driven methods were develope for detecting cyberattacks, but few are focused on distinguishing them from equipment faults. In this paper, we develop a data-driven framework that can be used to detect, diagnose, and localize a type of cyberattack called covert attacks on networked industrial control systems. The framework has a hybrid design that combines a variational autoencoder (VAE), a recurrent neural network (RNN), and a Deep Neural Network (DNN). This data-driven framework considers the temporal behavior of a generic physical system that extracts features from the time series of the sensor measurements that can be used for detecting covert attacks, distinguishing them from equipment faults, as well as localize the attack/fault. We evaluate the performance of the proposed method through a realistic simulation study on a networked power transmission system as a typical example of ICS. We compare the performance of the proposed method with the traditional model-based method to show its applicability and efficacy. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Monsters in the Dark: Sanitizing Hidden Threats with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06951  
**Abstract:** Steganography is the art of hiding information in plain sight. This form of covert communication can be used by bad actors to propagate malware, exfiltrate victim data, and communicate with other bad actors. Current image steganography defenses rely upon steganalysis, or the detection of hidden messages. These methods, however, are non-blind as they require information about known steganography techniques and are easily bypassed. Recent work has instead focused on a defense mechanism known as sanitization, which eliminates hidden information from images. In this work, we introduce a novel blind deep learning steganography sanitization method that utilizes a diffusion model framework to sanitize universal and dependent steganography (DM-SUDS), which both sanitizes and preserves image quality. We evaluate this approach against state-of-the-art deep learning sanitization frameworks and provide further detailed analysis through an ablation study. DM-SUDS outperforms previous sanitization methods and improves image preservation MSE by 71.32%, PSNR by 22.43% and SSIM by 17.30%. This is the first blind deep learning image sanitization framework to meet these image quality results. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** ObjectComposer: Consistent Generation of Multiple Objects Without  Fine-tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06968  
**Abstract:** Recent text-to-image generative models can generate high-fidelity images from text prompts. However, these models struggle to consistently generate the same objects in different contexts with the same appearance. Consistent object generation is important to many downstream tasks like generating comic book illustrations with consistent characters and setting. Numerous approaches attempt to solve this problem by extending the vocabulary of diffusion models through fine-tuning. However, even lightweight fine-tuning approaches can be prohibitively expensive to run at scale and in real-time. We introduce a method called ObjectComposer for generating compositions of multiple objects that resemble user-specified images. Our approach is training-free, leveraging the abilities of preexisting models. We build upon the recent BLIP-Diffusion model, which can generate images of single objects specified by reference images. ObjectComposer enables the consistent generation of compositions containing multiple specific objects simultaneously, all without modifying the weights of the underlying models. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Why bother with geometry? On the relevance of linear decompositions of  Transformer embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06977  
**Abstract:** A recent body of work has demonstrated that Transformer embeddings can be linearly decomposed into well-defined sums of factors, that can in turn be related to specific network inputs or components. There is however still a dearth of work studying whether these mathematical reformulations are empirically meaningful. In the present work, we study representations from machine-translation decoders using two of such embedding decomposition methods. Our results indicate that, while decomposition-derived indicators effectively correlate with model performance, variation across different runs suggests a more nuanced take on this question. The high variability of our measurements indicate that geometry reflects model-specific characteristics more than it does sentence-specific computations, and that similar training conditions do not guarantee similar vector spaces. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Leveraging Neural Radiance Fields for Uncertainty-Aware Visual  Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06984  
**Abstract:** As a promising fashion for visual localization, scene coordinate regression (SCR) has seen tremendous progress in the past decade. Most recent methods usually adopt neural networks to learn the mapping from image pixels to 3D scene coordinates, which requires a vast amount of annotated training data. We propose to leverage Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) to generate training samples for SCR. Despite NeRF's efficiency in rendering, many of the rendered data are polluted by artifacts or only contain minimal information gain, which can hinder the regression accuracy or bring unnecessary computational costs with redundant data. These challenges are addressed in three folds in this paper: (1) A NeRF is designed to separately predict uncertainties for the rendered color and depth images, which reveal data reliability at the pixel level. (2) SCR is formulated as deep evidential learning with epistemic uncertainty, which is used to evaluate information gain and scene coordinate quality. (3) Based on the three arts of uncertainties, a novel view selection policy is formed that significantly improves data efficiency. Experiments on public datasets demonstrate that our method could select the samples that bring the most information gain and promote the performance with the highest efficiency. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** NEWTON: Are Large Language Models Capable of Physical Reasoning?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07018  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), through their contextualized representations, have been empirically proven to encapsulate syntactic, semantic, word sense, and common-sense knowledge. However, there has been limited exploration of their physical reasoning abilities, specifically concerning the crucial attributes for comprehending everyday objects. To address this gap, we introduce NEWTON, a repository and benchmark for evaluating the physics reasoning skills of LLMs. Further, to enable domain-specific adaptation of this benchmark, we present a pipeline to enable researchers to generate a variant of this benchmark that has been customized to the objects and attributes relevant for their application. The NEWTON repository comprises a collection of 2800 object-attribute pairs, providing the foundation for generating infinite-scale assessment templates. The NEWTON benchmark consists of 160K QA questions, curated using the NEWTON repository to investigate the physical reasoning capabilities of several mainstream language models across foundational, explicit, and implicit reasoning tasks. Through extensive empirical analysis, our results highlight the capabilities of LLMs for physical reasoning. We find that LLMs like GPT-4 demonstrate strong reasoning capabilities in scenario-based tasks but exhibit less consistency in object-attribute reasoning compared to humans (50% vs. 84%). Furthermore, the NEWTON platform demonstrates its potential for evaluating and enhancing language models, paving the way for their integration into physically grounded settings, such as robotic manipulation. Project site: https://newtonreasoning.github.io 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Computational Pathology at Health System Scale -- Self-Supervised  Foundation Models from Three Billion Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07033  
**Abstract:** Recent breakthroughs in self-supervised learning have enabled the use of large unlabeled datasets to train visual foundation models that can generalize to a variety of downstream tasks. While this training paradigm is well suited for the medical domain where annotations are scarce, large-scale pre-training in the medical domain, and in particular pathology, has not been extensively studied. Previous work in self-supervised learning in pathology has leveraged smaller datasets for both pre-training and evaluating downstream performance. The aim of this project is to train the largest academic foundation model and benchmark the most prominent self-supervised learning algorithms by pre-training and evaluating downstream performance on large clinical pathology datasets. We collected the largest pathology dataset to date, consisting of over 3 billion images from over 423 thousand microscopy slides. We compared pre-training of visual transformer models using the masked autoencoder (MAE) and DINO algorithms. We evaluated performance on six clinically relevant tasks from three anatomic sites and two institutions: breast cancer detection, inflammatory bowel disease detection, breast cancer estrogen receptor prediction, lung adenocarcinoma EGFR mutation prediction, and lung cancer immunotherapy response prediction. Our results demonstrate that pre-training on pathology data is beneficial for downstream performance compared to pre-training on natural images. Additionally, the DINO algorithm achieved better generalization performance across all tasks tested. The presented results signify a phase change in computational pathology research, paving the way into a new era of more performant models based on large-scale, parallel pre-training at the billion-image scale. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** QualiGPT: GPT as an easy-to-use tool for qualitative coding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07061  
**Abstract:** Qualitative research delves deeply into individual complex perspectives on technology and various phenomena. However, a meticulous analysis of qualitative data often requires a significant amount of time, especially during the crucial coding stage. Although there is software specifically designed for qualitative evaluation, many of these platforms fall short in terms of automatic coding, intuitive usability, and cost-effectiveness. With the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 and its successors, we are at the forefront of a transformative era for enhancing qualitative analysis. In this paper, we introduce QualiGPT, a specialized tool designed after considering challenges associated with ChatGPT and qualitative analysis. It harnesses the capabilities of the Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT) and its API for thematic analysis of qualitative data. By comparing traditional manual coding with QualiGPT's analysis on both simulated and actual datasets, we verify that QualiGPT not only refines the qualitative analysis process but also elevates its transparency, credibility, and accessibility. Notably, compared to existing analytical platforms, QualiGPT stands out with its intuitive design, significantly reducing the learning curve and operational barriers for users. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Crossing the Threshold: Idiomatic Machine Translation through Retrieval  Augmentation and Loss Weighting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07081  
**Abstract:** Idioms are common in everyday language, but often pose a challenge to translators because their meanings do not follow from the meanings of their parts. Despite significant advances, machine translation systems still struggle to translate idiomatic expressions. We provide a simple characterization of idiomatic translation and related issues. This allows us to conduct a synthetic experiment revealing a tipping point at which transformer-based machine translation models correctly default to idiomatic translations. To expand multilingual resources, we compile a dataset of ~4k natural sentences containing idiomatic expressions in French, Finnish, and Japanese. To improve translation of natural idioms, we introduce two straightforward yet effective techniques: the strategic upweighting of training loss on potentially idiomatic sentences, and using retrieval-augmented models. This not only improves the accuracy of a strong pretrained MT model on idiomatic sentences by up to 13% in absolute accuracy, but also holds potential benefits for non-idiomatic sentences. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Investigating the Adversarial Robustness of Density Estimation Using the  Probability Flow ODE  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07084  
**Abstract:** Beyond their impressive sampling capabilities, score-based diffusion models offer a powerful analysis tool in the form of unbiased density estimation of a query sample under the training data distribution. In this work, we investigate the robustness of density estimation using the probability flow (PF) neural ordinary differential equation (ODE) model against gradient-based likelihood maximization attacks and the relation to sample complexity, where the compressed size of a sample is used as a measure of its complexity. We introduce and evaluate six gradient-based log-likelihood maximization attacks, including a novel reverse integration attack. Our experimental evaluations on CIFAR-10 show that density estimation using the PF ODE is robust against high-complexity, high-likelihood attacks, and that in some cases adversarial samples are semantically meaningful, as expected from a robust estimator. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Diversity of Thought Improves Reasoning Abilities of Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07088  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) are documented to struggle in settings that require complex reasoning. Nevertheless, instructing the model to break down the problem into smaller reasoning steps (Wei et al., 2022), or ensembling various generations through modifying decoding steps (Wang et al., 2023) boosts performance. Current methods assume that the input prompt is fixed and expect the decoding strategies to introduce the diversity needed for ensembling. In this work, we relax this assumption and discuss how one can create and leverage variations of the input prompt as a means to diversity of thought to improve model performance. We propose a method that automatically improves prompt diversity by soliciting feedback from the LLM to ideate approaches that fit for the problem. We then ensemble the diverse prompts in our method DIV-SE (DIVerse reasoning path Self-Ensemble) across multiple inference calls. We also propose a cost-effective alternative where diverse prompts are used within a single inference call; we call this IDIV-SE (In-call DIVerse reasoning path Self-Ensemble). Under a fixed generation budget, DIV-SE and IDIV-SE outperform the previously discussed baselines using both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 on several reasoning benchmarks, without modifying the decoding process. Additionally, DIV-SE advances state-of-the-art performance on recent planning benchmarks (Valmeekam et al., 2023), exceeding the highest previously reported accuracy by at least 29.6 percentage points on the most challenging 4/5 Blocksworld task. Our results shed light on how to enforce prompt diversity toward LLM reasoning and thereby improve the pareto frontier of the accuracy-cost trade-off. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Jaeger: A Concatenation-Based Multi-Transformer VQA Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07091  
**Abstract:** Document-based Visual Question Answering poses a challenging task between linguistic sense disambiguation and fine-grained multimodal retrieval. Although there has been encouraging progress in document-based question answering due to the utilization of large language and open-world prior models\cite{1}, several challenges persist, including prolonged response times, extended inference durations, and imprecision in matching. In order to overcome these challenges, we propose Jaegar, a concatenation-based multi-transformer VQA model. To derive question features, we leverage the exceptional capabilities of RoBERTa large\cite{2} and GPT2-xl\cite{3} as feature extractors. Subsequently, we subject the outputs from both models to a concatenation process. This operation allows the model to consider information from diverse sources concurrently, strengthening its representational capability. By leveraging pre-trained models for feature extraction, our approach has the potential to amplify the performance of these models through concatenation. After concatenation, we apply dimensionality reduction to the output features, reducing the model's computational effectiveness and inference time. Empirical results demonstrate that our proposed model achieves competitive performance on Task C of the PDF-VQA Dataset. If the user adds any new data, they should make sure to style it as per the instructions provided in previous sections. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Sparse Universal Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07096  
**Abstract:** The Universal Transformer (UT) is a variant of the Transformer that shares parameters across its layers. Empirical evidence shows that UTs have better compositional generalization than Vanilla Transformers (VTs) in formal language tasks. The parameter-sharing also affords it better parameter efficiency than VTs. Despite its many advantages, scaling UT parameters is much more compute and memory intensive than scaling up a VT. This paper proposes the Sparse Universal Transformer (SUT), which leverages Sparse Mixture of Experts (SMoE) and a new stick-breaking-based dynamic halting mechanism to reduce UT's computation complexity while retaining its parameter efficiency and generalization ability. Experiments show that SUT achieves the same performance as strong baseline models while only using half computation and parameters on WMT'14 and strong generalization results on formal language tasks (Logical inference and CFQ). The new halting mechanism also enables around 50\% reduction in computation during inference with very little performance decrease on formal language tasks. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** The Temporal Structure of Language Processing in the Human Brain  Corresponds to The Layered Hierarchy of Deep Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07106  
**Abstract:** Deep Language Models (DLMs) provide a novel computational paradigm for understanding the mechanisms of natural language processing in the human brain. Unlike traditional psycholinguistic models, DLMs use layered sequences of continuous numerical vectors to represent words and context, allowing a plethora of emerging applications such as human-like text generation. In this paper we show evidence that the layered hierarchy of DLMs may be used to model the temporal dynamics of language comprehension in the brain by demonstrating a strong correlation between DLM layer depth and the time at which layers are most predictive of the human brain. Our ability to temporally resolve individual layers benefits from our use of electrocorticography (ECoG) data, which has a much higher temporal resolution than noninvasive methods like fMRI. Using ECoG, we record neural activity from participants listening to a 30-minute narrative while also feeding the same narrative to a high-performing DLM (GPT2-XL). We then extract contextual embeddings from the different layers of the DLM and use linear encoding models to predict neural activity. We first focus on the Inferior Frontal Gyrus (IFG, or Broca's area) and then extend our model to track the increasing temporal receptive window along the linguistic processing hierarchy from auditory to syntactic and semantic areas. Our results reveal a connection between human language processing and DLMs, with the DLM's layer-by-layer accumulation of contextual information mirroring the timing of neural activity in high-order language areas. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** SparseCoder: Advancing Source Code Analysis with Sparse Attention and  Learned Token Pruning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07109  
**Abstract:** As software projects rapidly evolve, software artifacts become more complex and defects behind get harder to identify. The emerging Transformer-based approaches, though achieving remarkable performance, struggle with long code sequences due to their self-attention mechanism, which scales quadratically with the sequence length. This paper introduces SparseCoder, an innovative approach incorporating sparse attention and learned token pruning (LTP) method (adapted from natural language processing) to address this limitation. Extensive experiments carried out on a large-scale dataset for vulnerability detection demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of SparseCoder, scaling from quadratically to linearly on long code sequence analysis in comparison to CodeBERT and RoBERTa. We further achieve 50% FLOPs reduction with a negligible performance drop of less than 1% comparing to Transformer leveraging sparse attention. Moverover, SparseCoder goes beyond making "black-box" decisions by elucidating the rationale behind those decisions. Code segments that contribute to the final decision can be highlighted with importance scores, offering an interpretable, transparent analysis tool for the software engineering landscape. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** A new mixed finite element method for arbitrary element pair for a  quasi-static nonlinear permeability thermo-poroelasticity model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07112  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we develop a multiphysics finite element method for solving the quasi-static thermo-poroelasticity model with nonlinear permeability. The model involves multiple physical processes such as deformation, pressure, diffusion and heat transfer. To reveal the multi-physical processes of deformation, diffusion and heat transfer, we reformulate the original model into a fluid coupled problem that is general Stokes equation coupled with two reaction-diffusion equations. Then, we prove the existence and uniqueness of weak solution for the original problem by the $B$-operator technique and by sequence approximation for the reformulated problem. As for the reformulated problem we propose a fully discrete finite element method which can use arbitrary finite element pairs to solve the displacement $\bu$ pressure $\tau $ and variable $\varpi,\varsigma$, and the backward Euler method for time discretization. Finally, we give the stability analysis of the above proposed method, also we prove that the fully discrete multiphysics finite element method has an optimal convergence order. Numerical experiments show that the proposed method can achieve good results under different finite element pairs and are consistent with the theoretical analysis. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Denoising Task Routing for Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07138  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models generate highly realistic images through learning a multi-step denoising process, naturally embodying the principles of multi-task learning (MTL). Despite the inherent connection between diffusion models and MTL, there remains an unexplored area in designing neural architectures that explicitly incorporate MTL into the framework of diffusion models. In this paper, we present Denoising Task Routing (DTR), a simple add-on strategy for existing diffusion model architectures to establish distinct information pathways for individual tasks within a single architecture by selectively activating subsets of channels in the model. What makes DTR particularly compelling is its seamless integration of prior knowledge of denoising tasks into the framework: (1) Task Affinity: DTR activates similar channels for tasks at adjacent timesteps and shifts activated channels as sliding windows through timesteps, capitalizing on the inherent strong affinity between tasks at adjacent timesteps. (2) Task Weights: During the early stages (higher timesteps) of the denoising process, DTR assigns a greater number of task-specific channels, leveraging the insight that diffusion models prioritize reconstructing global structure and perceptually rich contents in earlier stages, and focus on simple noise removal in later stages. Our experiments demonstrate that DTR consistently enhances the performance of diffusion models across various evaluation protocols, all without introducing additional parameters. Furthermore, DTR contributes to accelerating convergence during training. Finally, we show the complementarity between our architectural approach and existing MTL optimization techniques, providing a more complete view of MTL within the context of diffusion training. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Imitation Learning from Purified Demonstration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07143  
**Abstract:** Imitation learning has emerged as a promising approach for addressing sequential decision-making problems, with the assumption that expert demonstrations are optimal. However, in real-world scenarios, expert demonstrations are often imperfect, leading to challenges in effectively applying imitation learning. While existing research has focused on optimizing with imperfect demonstrations, the training typically requires a certain proportion of optimal demonstrations to guarantee performance. To tackle these problems, we propose to purify the potential perturbations in imperfect demonstrations and subsequently conduct imitation learning from purified demonstrations. Motivated by the success of diffusion models, we introduce a two-step purification via the diffusion process. In the first step, we apply a forward diffusion process to effectively smooth out the potential perturbations in imperfect demonstrations by introducing additional noise. Subsequently, a reverse generative process is utilized to recover the optimal expert demonstrations from the diffused ones. We provide theoretical evidence supporting our approach, demonstrating that total variance distance between the purified and optimal demonstration distributions can be upper-bounded. The evaluation results on MuJoCo demonstrate the effectiveness of our method from different aspects. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Empowering Psychotherapy with Large Language Models: Cognitive  Distortion Detection through Diagnosis of Thought Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07146  
**Abstract:** Mental illness remains one of the most critical public health issues of our time, due to the severe scarcity and accessibility limit of professionals. Psychotherapy requires high-level expertise to conduct deep, complex reasoning and analysis on the cognition modeling of the patients. In the era of Large Language Models, we believe it is the right time to develop AI assistance for computational psychotherapy. We study the task of cognitive distortion detection and propose the Diagnosis of Thought (DoT) prompting. DoT performs diagnosis on the patient's speech via three stages: subjectivity assessment to separate the facts and the thoughts; contrastive reasoning to elicit the reasoning processes supporting and contradicting the thoughts; and schema analysis to summarize the cognition schemas. The generated diagnosis rationales through the three stages are essential for assisting the professionals. Experiments demonstrate that DoT obtains significant improvements over ChatGPT for cognitive distortion detection, while generating high-quality rationales approved by human experts. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Generalized Neural Sorting Networks with Error-Free Differentiable Swap  Functions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07174  
**Abstract:** Sorting is a fundamental operation of all computer systems, having been a long-standing significant research topic. Beyond the problem formulation of traditional sorting algorithms, we consider sorting problems for more abstract yet expressive inputs, e.g., multi-digit images and image fragments, through a neural sorting network. To learn a mapping from a high-dimensional input to an ordinal variable, the differentiability of sorting networks needs to be guaranteed. In this paper we define a softening error by a differentiable swap function, and develop an error-free swap function that holds non-decreasing and differentiability conditions. Furthermore, a permutation-equivariant Transformer network with multi-head attention is adopted to capture dependency between given inputs and also leverage its model capacity with self-attention. Experiments on diverse sorting benchmarks show that our methods perform better than or comparable to baseline methods. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** NeuroInspect: Interpretable Neuron-based Debugging Framework through  Class-conditional Visualizations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07184  
**Abstract:** Despite deep learning (DL) has achieved remarkable progress in various domains, the DL models are still prone to making mistakes. This issue necessitates effective debugging tools for DL practitioners to interpret the decision-making process within the networks. However, existing debugging methods often demand extra data or adjustments to the decision process, limiting their applicability. To tackle this problem, we present NeuroInspect, an interpretable neuron-based debugging framework with three key stages: counterfactual explanations, feature visualizations, and false correlation mitigation. Our debugging framework first pinpoints neurons responsible for mistakes in the network and then visualizes features embedded in the neurons to be human-interpretable. To provide these explanations, we introduce CLIP-Illusion, a novel feature visualization method that generates images representing features conditioned on classes to examine the connection between neurons and the decision layer. We alleviate convoluted explanations of the conventional visualization approach by employing class information, thereby isolating mixed properties. This process offers more human-interpretable explanations for model errors without altering the trained network or requiring additional data. Furthermore, our framework mitigates false correlations learned from a dataset under a stochastic perspective, modifying decisions for the neurons considered as the main causes. We validate the effectiveness of our framework by addressing false correlations and improving inferences for classes with the worst performance in real-world settings. Moreover, we demonstrate that NeuroInspect helps debug the mistakes of DL models through evaluation for human understanding. The code is openly available at https://github.com/yeongjoonJu/NeuroInspect. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Multiview Transformer: Rethinking Spatial Information in Hyperspectral  Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07186  
**Abstract:** Identifying the land cover category for each pixel in a hyperspectral image (HSI) relies on spectral and spatial information. An HSI cuboid with a specific patch size is utilized to extract spatial-spectral feature representation for the central pixel. In this article, we investigate that scene-specific but not essential correlations may be recorded in an HSI cuboid. This additional information improves the model performance on existing HSI datasets and makes it hard to properly evaluate the ability of a model. We refer to this problem as the spatial overfitting issue and utilize strict experimental settings to avoid it. We further propose a multiview transformer for HSI classification, which consists of multiview principal component analysis (MPCA), spectral encoder-decoder (SED), and spatial-pooling tokenization transformer (SPTT). MPCA performs dimension reduction on an HSI via constructing spectral multiview observations and applying PCA on each view data to extract low-dimensional view representation. The combination of view representations, named multiview representation, is the dimension reduction output of the MPCA. To aggregate the multiview information, a fully-convolutional SED with a U-shape in spectral dimension is introduced to extract a multiview feature map. SPTT transforms the multiview features into tokens using the spatial-pooling tokenization strategy and learns robust and discriminative spatial-spectral features for land cover identification. Classification is conducted with a linear classifier. Experiments on three HSI datasets with rigid settings demonstrate the superiority of the proposed multiview transformer over the state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Adaptive Gating in Mixture-of-Experts based Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07188  
**Abstract:** Large language models, such as OpenAI's ChatGPT, have demonstrated exceptional language understanding capabilities in various NLP tasks. Sparsely activated mixture-of-experts (MoE) has emerged as a promising solution for scaling models while maintaining a constant number of computational operations. Existing MoE model adopts a fixed gating network where each token is computed by the same number of experts. However, this approach contradicts our intuition that the tokens in each sequence vary in terms of their linguistic complexity and, consequently, require different computational costs. Little is discussed in prior research on the trade-off between computation per token and model performance. This paper introduces adaptive gating in MoE, a flexible training strategy that allows tokens to be processed by a variable number of experts based on expert probability distribution. The proposed framework preserves sparsity while improving training efficiency. Additionally, curriculum learning is leveraged to further reduce training time. Extensive experiments on diverse NLP tasks show that adaptive gating reduces at most 22.5% training time while maintaining inference quality. Moreover, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of the routing decisions and present our insights when adaptive gating is used. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** State of the Art on Diffusion Models for Visual Computing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07204  
**Abstract:** The field of visual computing is rapidly advancing due to the emergence of generative artificial intelligence (AI), which unlocks unprecedented capabilities for the generation, editing, and reconstruction of images, videos, and 3D scenes. In these domains, diffusion models are the generative AI architecture of choice. Within the last year alone, the literature on diffusion-based tools and applications has seen exponential growth and relevant papers are published across the computer graphics, computer vision, and AI communities with new works appearing daily on arXiv. This rapid growth of the field makes it difficult to keep up with all recent developments. The goal of this state-of-the-art report (STAR) is to introduce the basic mathematical concepts of diffusion models, implementation details and design choices of the popular Stable Diffusion model, as well as overview important aspects of these generative AI tools, including personalization, conditioning, inversion, among others. Moreover, we give a comprehensive overview of the rapidly growing literature on diffusion-based generation and editing, categorized by the type of generated medium, including 2D images, videos, 3D objects, locomotion, and 4D scenes. Finally, we discuss available datasets, metrics, open challenges, and social implications. This STAR provides an intuitive starting point to explore this exciting topic for researchers, artists, and practitioners alike. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Generative Modeling on Manifolds Through Mixture of Riemannian Diffusion  Processes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07216  
**Abstract:** Learning the distribution of data on Riemannian manifolds is crucial for modeling data from non-Euclidean space, which is required by many applications from diverse scientific fields. Yet, existing generative models on manifolds suffer from expensive divergence computation or rely on approximations of heat kernel. These limitations restrict their applicability to simple geometries and hinder scalability to high dimensions. In this work, we introduce the Riemannian Diffusion Mixture, a principled framework for building a generative process on manifolds as a mixture of endpoint-conditioned diffusion processes instead of relying on the denoising approach of previous diffusion models, for which the generative process is characterized by its drift guiding toward the most probable endpoint with respect to the geometry of the manifold. We further propose a simple yet efficient training objective for learning the mixture process, that is readily applicable to general manifolds. Our method outperforms previous generative models on various manifolds while scaling to high dimensions and requires a dramatically reduced number of in-training simulation steps for general manifolds. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Uni-paint: A Unified Framework for Multimodal Image Inpainting with  Pretrained Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07222  
**Abstract:** Recently, text-to-image denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs) have demonstrated impressive image generation capabilities and have also been successfully applied to image inpainting. However, in practice, users often require more control over the inpainting process beyond textual guidance, especially when they want to composite objects with customized appearance, color, shape, and layout. Unfortunately, existing diffusion-based inpainting methods are limited to single-modal guidance and require task-specific training, hindering their cross-modal scalability. To address these limitations, we propose Uni-paint, a unified framework for multimodal inpainting that offers various modes of guidance, including unconditional, text-driven, stroke-driven, exemplar-driven inpainting, as well as a combination of these modes. Furthermore, our Uni-paint is based on pretrained Stable Diffusion and does not require task-specific training on specific datasets, enabling few-shot generalizability to customized images. We have conducted extensive qualitative and quantitative evaluations that show our approach achieves comparable results to existing single-modal methods while offering multimodal inpainting capabilities not available in other methods. Code will be available at https://github.com/ysy31415/unipaint. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Crowd Counting in Harsh Weather using Image Denoising with Pix2Pix GANs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07245  
**Abstract:** Visual crowd counting estimates the density of the crowd using deep learning models such as convolution neural networks (CNNs). The performance of the model heavily relies on the quality of the training data that constitutes crowd images. In harsh weather such as fog, dust, and low light conditions, the inference performance may severely degrade on the noisy and blur images. In this paper, we propose the use of Pix2Pix generative adversarial network (GAN) to first denoise the crowd images prior to passing them to the counting model. A Pix2Pix network is trained using synthetic noisy images generated from original crowd images and then the pretrained generator is then used in the inference engine to estimate the crowd density in unseen, noisy crowd images. The performance is tested on JHU-Crowd dataset to validate the significance of the proposed method particularly when high reliability and accuracy are required. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Ethical Reasoning over Moral Alignment: A Case and Framework for  In-Context Ethical Policies in LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07251  
**Abstract:** In this position paper, we argue that instead of morally aligning LLMs to specific set of ethical principles, we should infuse generic ethical reasoning capabilities into them so that they can handle value pluralism at a global scale. When provided with an ethical policy, an LLM should be capable of making decisions that are ethically consistent to the policy. We develop a framework that integrates moral dilemmas with moral principles pertaining to different foramlisms of normative ethics, and at different levels of abstractions. Initial experiments with GPT-x models shows that while GPT-4 is a nearly perfect ethical reasoner, the models still have bias towards the moral values of Western and English speaking societies. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Uncovering Hidden Connections: Iterative Tracking and Reasoning for  Video-grounded Dialog  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07259  
**Abstract:** In contrast to conventional visual question answering, video-grounded dialog necessitates a profound understanding of both dialog history and video content for accurate response generation. Despite commendable strides made by existing methodologies, they often grapple with the challenges of incrementally understanding intricate dialog histories and assimilating video information. In response to this gap, we present an iterative tracking and reasoning strategy that amalgamates a textual encoder, a visual encoder, and a generator. At its core, our textual encoder is fortified with a path tracking and aggregation mechanism, adept at gleaning nuances from dialog history that are pivotal to deciphering the posed questions. Concurrently, our visual encoder harnesses an iterative reasoning network, meticulously crafted to distill and emphasize critical visual markers from videos, enhancing the depth of visual comprehension. Culminating this enriched information, we employ the pre-trained GPT-2 model as our response generator, stitching together coherent and contextually apt answers. Our empirical assessments, conducted on two renowned datasets, testify to the prowess and adaptability of our proposed design. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Distilling Efficient Vision Transformers from CNNs for Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07265  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we tackle a new problem: how to transfer knowledge from the pre-trained cumbersome yet well-performed CNN-based model to learn a compact Vision Transformer (ViT)-based model while maintaining its learning capacity? Due to the completely different characteristics of ViT and CNN and the long-existing capacity gap between teacher and student models in Knowledge Distillation (KD), directly transferring the cross-model knowledge is non-trivial. To this end, we subtly leverage the visual and linguistic-compatible feature character of ViT (i.e., student), and its capacity gap with the CNN (i.e., teacher) and propose a novel CNN-to-ViT KD framework, dubbed C2VKD. Importantly, as the teacher's features are heterogeneous to those of the student, we first propose a novel visual-linguistic feature distillation (VLFD) module that explores efficient KD among the aligned visual and linguistic-compatible representations. Moreover, due to the large capacity gap between the teacher and student and the inevitable prediction errors of the teacher, we then propose a pixel-wise decoupled distillation (PDD) module to supervise the student under the combination of labels and teacher's predictions from the decoupled target and non-target classes. Experiments on three semantic segmentation benchmark datasets consistently show that the increment of mIoU of our method is over 200% of the SoTA KD methods 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Score Regularized Policy Optimization through Diffusion Behavior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07297  
**Abstract:** Recent developments in offline reinforcement learning have uncovered the immense potential of diffusion modeling, which excels at representing heterogeneous behavior policies. However, sampling from diffusion policies is considerably slow because it necessitates tens to hundreds of iterative inference steps for one action. To address this issue, we propose to extract an efficient deterministic inference policy from critic models and pretrained diffusion behavior models, leveraging the latter to directly regularize the policy gradient with the behavior distribution's score function during optimization. Our method enjoys powerful generative capabilities of diffusion modeling while completely circumventing the computationally intensive and time-consuming diffusion sampling scheme, both during training and evaluation. Extensive results on D4RL tasks show that our method boosts action sampling speed by more than 25 times compared with various leading diffusion-based methods in locomotion tasks, while still maintaining state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Parrot: Enhancing Multi-Turn Chat Models by Learning to Ask Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07301  
**Abstract:** Impressive progress has been made on chat models based on Large Language Models (LLMs) recently; however, there is a noticeable lag in multi-turn conversations between open-source chat models (e.g., Alpaca and Vicuna) and the leading chat models (e.g., ChatGPT and GPT-4). Through a series of analyses, we attribute the lag to the lack of enough high-quality multi-turn instruction-tuning data. The available instruction-tuning data for the community are either single-turn conversations or multi-turn ones with certain issues, such as non-human-like instructions, less detailed responses, or rare topic shifts. In this paper, we address these challenges by introducing Parrot, a highly scalable solution designed to automatically generate high-quality instruction-tuning data, which are then used to enhance the effectiveness of chat models in multi-turn conversations. Specifically, we start by training the Parrot-Ask model, which is designed to emulate real users in generating instructions. We then utilize Parrot-Ask to engage in multi-turn conversations with ChatGPT across a diverse range of topics, resulting in a collection of 40K high-quality multi-turn dialogues (Parrot-40K). These data are subsequently employed to train a chat model that we have named Parrot-Chat. We demonstrate that the dialogues gathered from Parrot-Ask markedly outperform existing multi-turn instruction-following datasets in critical metrics, including topic diversity, number of turns, and resemblance to human conversation. With only 40K training examples, Parrot-Chat achieves strong performance against other 13B open-source models across a range of instruction-following benchmarks, and particularly excels in evaluations of multi-turn capabilities. We make all codes, datasets, and two versions of the Parrot-Ask model based on LLaMA2-13B and KuaiYii-13B available at https://github.com/kwai/KwaiYii/Parrot. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** WiGenAI: The Symphony of Wireless and Generative AI via Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07312  
**Abstract:** Innovative foundation models, such as GPT-3 and stable diffusion models, have made a paradigm shift in the realm of artificial intelligence (AI) towards generative AI-based systems. In unison, from data communication and networking perspective, AI and machine learning (AI/ML) algorithms are envisioned to be pervasively incorporated into the future generations of wireless communications systems, highlighting the need for novel AI-native solutions for the emergent communication scenarios. In this article, we outline the applications of generative AI in wireless communication systems to lay the foundations for research in this field. Diffusion-based generative models, as the new state-of-the-art paradigm of generative models, are introduced, and their applications in wireless communication systems are discussed. Two case studies are also presented to showcase how diffusion models can be exploited for the development of resilient AI-native communication systems. Specifically, we propose denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM) for a wireless communication scheme with non-ideal transceivers, where 30% improvement is achieved in terms of bit error rate. As the second application, DDPMs are employed at the transmitter to shape the constellation symbols, highlighting a robust out-of-distribution performance. Finally, future directions and open issues for the development of generative AI-based wireless systems are discussed to promote future research endeavors towards wireless generative AI (WiGenAI). 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Multichannel consecutive data cross-extraction with 1DCNN-attention for  diagnosis of power transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07323  
**Abstract:** Power transformer plays a critical role in grid infrastructure, and its diagnosis is paramount for maintaining stable operation. However, the current methods for transformer diagnosis focus on discrete dissolved gas analysis, neglecting deep feature extraction of multichannel consecutive data. The unutilized sequential data contains the significant temporal information reflecting the transformer condition. In light of this, the structure of multichannel consecutive data cross-extraction (MCDC) is proposed in this article in order to comprehensively exploit the intrinsic characteristic and evaluate the states of transformer. Moreover, for the better accommodation in scenario of transformer diagnosis, one dimensional convolution neural network attention (1DCNN-attention) mechanism is introduced and offers a more efficient solution given the simplified spatial complexity. Finally, the effectiveness of MCDC and the superior generalization ability, compared with other algorithms, are validated in experiments conducted on a dataset collected from real operation cases of power transformer. Additionally, the better stability of 1DCNN-attention has also been certified. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** An Adversarial Example for Direct Logit Attribution: Memory Management  in gelu-4l  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07325  
**Abstract:** We provide concrete evidence for memory management in a 4-layer transformer. Specifically, we identify clean-up behavior, in which model components consistently remove the output of preceeding components during a forward pass. Our findings suggest that the interpretability technique Direct Logit Attribution provides misleading results. We show explicit examples where this technique is inaccurate, as it does not account for clean-up behavior. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** An Empirical Study of Instruction-tuning Large Language Models in  Chinese  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07328  
**Abstract:** The success of ChatGPT validates the potential of large language models (LLMs) in artificial general intelligence (AGI). Subsequently, the release of LLMs has sparked the open-source community's interest in instruction-tuning, which is deemed to accelerate ChatGPT's replication process. However, research on instruction-tuning LLMs in Chinese, the world's most spoken language, is still in its early stages. Therefore, this paper makes an in-depth empirical study of instruction-tuning LLMs in Chinese, which can serve as a cookbook that provides valuable findings for effectively customizing LLMs that can better respond to Chinese instructions. Specifically, we systematically explore the impact of LLM bases, parameter-efficient methods, instruction data types, which are the three most important elements for instruction-tuning. Besides, we also conduct experiment to study the impact of other factors, e.g., chain-of-thought data and human-value alignment. We hope that this empirical study can make a modest contribution to the open Chinese version of ChatGPT. This paper will release a powerful Chinese LLMs that is comparable to ChatGLM. The code and data are available at https://github.com/PhoebusSi/Alpaca-CoT. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Towards Foundation Models for Learning on Tabular Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07338  
**Abstract:** Learning on tabular data underpins numerous real-world applications. Despite considerable efforts in developing effective learning models for tabular data, current transferable tabular models remain in their infancy, limited by either the lack of support for direct instruction following in new tasks or the neglect of acquiring foundational knowledge and capabilities from diverse tabular datasets. In this paper, we propose Tabular Foundation Models (TabFMs) to overcome these limitations. TabFMs harness the potential of generative tabular learning, employing a pre-trained large language model (LLM) as the base model and fine-tuning it using purpose-designed objectives on an extensive range of tabular datasets. This approach endows TabFMs with a profound understanding and universal capabilities essential for learning on tabular data. Our evaluations underscore TabFM's effectiveness: not only does it significantly excel in instruction-following tasks like zero-shot and in-context inference, but it also showcases performance that approaches, and in instances, even transcends, the renowned yet mysterious closed-source LLMs like GPT-4. Furthermore, when fine-tuning with scarce data, our model achieves remarkable efficiency and maintains competitive performance with abundant training data. Finally, while our results are promising, we also delve into TabFM's limitations and potential opportunities, aiming to stimulate and expedite future research on developing more potent TabFMs. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Atom-Motif Contrastive Transformer for Molecular Property Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07351  
**Abstract:** Recently, Graph Transformer (GT) models have been widely used in the task of Molecular Property Prediction (MPP) due to their high reliability in characterizing the latent relationship among graph nodes (i.e., the atoms in a molecule). However, most existing GT-based methods usually explore the basic interactions between pairwise atoms, and thus they fail to consider the important interactions among critical motifs (e.g., functional groups consisted of several atoms) of molecules. As motifs in a molecule are significant patterns that are of great importance for determining molecular properties (e.g., toxicity and solubility), overlooking motif interactions inevitably hinders the effectiveness of MPP. To address this issue, we propose a novel Atom-Motif Contrastive Transformer (AMCT), which not only explores the atom-level interactions but also considers the motif-level interactions. Since the representations of atoms and motifs for a given molecule are actually two different views of the same instance, they are naturally aligned to generate the self-supervisory signals for model training. Meanwhile, the same motif can exist in different molecules, and hence we also employ the contrastive loss to maximize the representation agreement of identical motifs across different molecules. Finally, in order to clearly identify the motifs that are critical in deciding the properties of each molecule, we further construct a property-aware attention mechanism into our learning framework. Our proposed AMCT is extensively evaluated on seven popular benchmark datasets, and both quantitative and qualitative results firmly demonstrate its effectiveness when compared with the state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Adaptive Distributionally Robust Planning for Renewable-Powered Fast  Charging Stations Under Decision-Dependent EV Diffusion Uncertainty  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07352  
**Abstract:** When deploying fast charging stations (FCSs) to support long-distance trips of electric vehicles (EVs), there exist indirect network effects: while the gradual diffusion of EVs directly influences the timing and capacities of FCS allocation, the decisions for FCS allocations, in turn, impact the drivers' willingness to adopt EVs. This interplay, if neglected, can result in uncovered EVs and security issues on the grid side and even hinder the effective diffusion of EVs. In this paper, we explicitly incorporate this interdependence by quantifying EV adoption rates as decision-dependent uncertainties (DDUs) using decision-dependent ambiguity sets (DDASs). Then, a two-stage decision-dependent distributionally robust FCS planning (D$^3$R-FCSP) model is developed for adaptively deploying FCSs with on-site sources and expanding the coupled distribution network. A multi-period capacitated arc cover-path cover (MCACPC) model is incorporated to capture the EVs' recharging patterns to ensure the feasibility of FCS locations and capacities. To resolve the nonlinearity and nonconvexity, the D$^3$R-FCSP model is equivalently reformulated into a single-level mixed-integer linear programming by exploiting its strong duality and applying the McCormick envelope. Finally, case studies highlight the superior out-of-sample performances of our model in terms of security and cost-efficiency. Furthermore, the byproduct of accelerated EV adoption through an implicit positive feedback loop is highlighted. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** New analytical solution for time fractional Burgers-Huxley equation  describing the interaction between reaction mechanisms and diffusion  transport  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07375  
**Abstract:** This manuscript studies the numerical solution of the time-fractional Burgers-Huxley equation in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. The analytical solution of the equation is obtained in terms of a convergent series with easily computable components. It is observed that the approximate solution uniformly converges to the exact solution for the aforementioned equation. Also, the convergence of the proposed method is investigated. Numerical examples are given to demonstrate the validity and applicability of the presented method. The numerical results indicate that the proposed method is powerful and effective with a small computational overhead. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** CLIP for Lightweight Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07394  
**Abstract:** The large-scale pretrained model CLIP, trained on 400 million image-text pairs, offers a promising paradigm for tackling vision tasks, albeit at the image level. Later works, such as DenseCLIP and LSeg, extend this paradigm to dense prediction, including semantic segmentation, and have achieved excellent results. However, the above methods either rely on CLIP-pretrained visual backbones or use none-pretrained but heavy backbones such as Swin, while falling ineffective when applied to lightweight backbones. The reason for this is that the lightweitht networks, feature extraction ability of which are relatively limited, meet difficulty embedding the image feature aligned with text embeddings perfectly. In this work, we present a new feature fusion module which tackles this problem and enables language-guided paradigm to be applied to lightweight networks. Specifically, the module is a parallel design of CNN and transformer with a two-way bridge in between, where CNN extracts spatial information and visual context of the feature map from the image encoder, and the transformer propagates text embeddings from the text encoder forward. The core of the module is the bidirectional fusion of visual and text feature across the bridge which prompts their proximity and alignment in embedding space. The module is model-agnostic, which can not only make language-guided lightweight semantic segmentation practical, but also fully exploit the pretrained knowledge of language priors and achieve better performance than previous SOTA work, such as DenseCLIP, whatever the vision backbone is. Extensive experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the superiority of our method. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** NuTime: Numerically Multi-Scaled Embedding for Large-Scale Time Series  Pretraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07402  
**Abstract:** Recent research on time-series self-supervised models shows great promise in learning semantic representations. However, it has been limited to small-scale datasets, e.g., thousands of temporal sequences. In this work, we make key technical contributions that are tailored to the numerical properties of time-series data and allow the model to scale to large datasets, e.g., millions of temporal sequences. We adopt the Transformer architecture by first partitioning the input into non-overlapping windows. Each window is then characterized by its normalized shape and two scalar values denoting the mean and standard deviation within each window. To embed scalar values that may possess arbitrary numerical scales to high-dimensional vectors, we propose a numerically multi-scaled embedding module enumerating all possible scales for the scalar values. The model undergoes pretraining using the proposed numerically multi-scaled embedding with a simple contrastive objective on a large-scale dataset containing over a million sequences. We study its transfer performance on a number of univariate and multivariate classification benchmarks. Our method exhibits remarkable improvement against previous representation learning approaches and establishes the new state of the art, even compared with domain-specific non-learning-based methods. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** DASpeech: Directed Acyclic Transformer for Fast and High-quality  Speech-to-Speech Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07403  
**Abstract:** Direct speech-to-speech translation (S2ST) translates speech from one language into another using a single model. However, due to the presence of linguistic and acoustic diversity, the target speech follows a complex multimodal distribution, posing challenges to achieving both high-quality translations and fast decoding speeds for S2ST models. In this paper, we propose DASpeech, a non-autoregressive direct S2ST model which realizes both fast and high-quality S2ST. To better capture the complex distribution of the target speech, DASpeech adopts the two-pass architecture to decompose the generation process into two steps, where a linguistic decoder first generates the target text, and an acoustic decoder then generates the target speech based on the hidden states of the linguistic decoder. Specifically, we use the decoder of DA-Transformer as the linguistic decoder, and use FastSpeech 2 as the acoustic decoder. DA-Transformer models translations with a directed acyclic graph (DAG). To consider all potential paths in the DAG during training, we calculate the expected hidden states for each target token via dynamic programming, and feed them into the acoustic decoder to predict the target mel-spectrogram. During inference, we select the most probable path and take hidden states on that path as input to the acoustic decoder. Experiments on the CVSS Fr-En benchmark demonstrate that DASpeech can achieve comparable or even better performance than the state-of-the-art S2ST model Translatotron 2, while preserving up to 18.53x speedup compared to the autoregressive baseline. Compared with the previous non-autoregressive S2ST model, DASpeech does not rely on knowledge distillation and iterative decoding, achieving significant improvements in both translation quality and decoding speed. Furthermore, DASpeech shows the ability to preserve the speaker's voice of the source speech during translation. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Multi-Concept T2I-Zero: Tweaking Only The Text Embeddings and Nothing  Else  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07419  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in text-to-image diffusion models have enabled the photorealistic generation of images from text prompts. Despite the great progress, existing models still struggle to generate compositional multi-concept images naturally, limiting their ability to visualize human imagination. While several recent works have attempted to address this issue, they either introduce additional training or adopt guidance at inference time. In this work, we consider a more ambitious goal: natural multi-concept generation using a pre-trained diffusion model, and with almost no extra cost. To achieve this goal, we identify the limitations in the text embeddings used for the pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models. Specifically, we observe concept dominance and non-localized contribution that severely degrade multi-concept generation performance. We further design a minimal low-cost solution that overcomes the above issues by tweaking (not re-training) the text embeddings for more realistic multi-concept text-to-image generation. Our Correction by Similarities method tweaks the embedding of concepts by collecting semantic features from most similar tokens to localize the contribution. To avoid mixing features of concepts, we also apply Cross-Token Non-Maximum Suppression, which excludes the overlap of contributions from different concepts. Experiments show that our approach outperforms previous methods in text-to-image, image manipulation, and personalization tasks, despite not introducing additional training or inference costs to the diffusion steps. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Quantum-Enhanced Forecasting: Leveraging Quantum Gramian Angular Field  and CNNs for Stock Return Predictions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07427  
**Abstract:** We propose a time series forecasting method named Quantum Gramian Angular Field (QGAF). This approach merges the advantages of quantum computing technology with deep learning, aiming to enhance the precision of time series classification and forecasting. We successfully transformed stock return time series data into two-dimensional images suitable for Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) training by designing specific quantum circuits. Distinct from the classical Gramian Angular Field (GAF) approach, QGAF's uniqueness lies in eliminating the need for data normalization and inverse cosine calculations, simplifying the transformation process from time series data to two-dimensional images. To validate the effectiveness of this method, we conducted experiments on datasets from three major stock markets: the China A-share market, the Hong Kong stock market, and the US stock market. Experimental results revealed that compared to the classical GAF method, the QGAF approach significantly improved time series prediction accuracy, reducing prediction errors by an average of 25\% for Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and 48\% for Mean Squared Error (MSE). This research confirms the potential and promising prospects of integrating quantum computing with deep learning techniques in financial time series forecasting. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Distance-based Weighted Transformer Network for Image Completion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07440  
**Abstract:** The challenge of image generation has been effectively modeled as a problem of structure priors or transformation. However, existing models have unsatisfactory performance in understanding the global input image structures because of particular inherent features (for example, local inductive prior). Recent studies have shown that self-attention is an efficient modeling technique for image completion problems. In this paper, we propose a new architecture that relies on Distance-based Weighted Transformer (DWT) to better understand the relationships between an image's components. In our model, we leverage the strengths of both Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and DWT blocks to enhance the image completion process. Specifically, CNNs are used to augment the local texture information of coarse priors and DWT blocks are used to recover certain coarse textures and coherent visual structures. Unlike current approaches that generally use CNNs to create feature maps, we use the DWT to encode global dependencies and compute distance-based weighted feature maps, which substantially minimizes the problem of visual ambiguities. Meanwhile, to better produce repeated textures, we introduce Residual Fast Fourier Convolution (Res-FFC) blocks to combine the encoder's skip features with the coarse features provided by our generator. Furthermore, a simple yet effective technique is proposed to normalize the non-zero values of convolutions, and fine-tune the network layers for regularization of the gradient norms to provide an efficient training stabiliser. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments on three challenging datasets demonstrate the superiority of our proposed model compared to existing approaches. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** PoRF: Pose Residual Field for Accurate Neural Surface Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07449  
**Abstract:** Neural surface reconstruction is sensitive to the camera pose noise, even if state-of-the-art pose estimators like COLMAP or ARKit are used. More importantly, existing Pose-NeRF joint optimisation methods have struggled to improve pose accuracy in challenging real-world scenarios. To overcome the challenges, we introduce the pose residual field (\textbf{PoRF}), a novel implicit representation that uses an MLP for regressing pose updates. This is more robust than the conventional pose parameter optimisation due to parameter sharing that leverages global information over the entire sequence. Furthermore, we propose an epipolar geometry loss to enhance the supervision that leverages the correspondences exported from COLMAP results without the extra computational overhead. Our method yields promising results. On the DTU dataset, we reduce the rotation error by 78\% for COLMAP poses, leading to the decreased reconstruction Chamfer distance from 3.48mm to 0.85mm. On the MobileBrick dataset that contains casually captured unbounded 360-degree videos, our method refines ARKit poses and improves the reconstruction F1 score from 69.18 to 75.67, outperforming that with the dataset provided ground-truth pose (75.14). These achievements demonstrate the efficacy of our approach in refining camera poses and improving the accuracy of neural surface reconstruction in real-world scenarios. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Cognate Transformer for Automated Phonological Reconstruction and  Cognate Reflex Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07487  
**Abstract:** Phonological reconstruction is one of the central problems in historical linguistics where a proto-word of an ancestral language is determined from the observed cognate words of daughter languages. Computational approaches to historical linguistics attempt to automate the task by learning models on available linguistic data. Several ideas and techniques drawn from computational biology have been successfully applied in the area of computational historical linguistics. Following these lines, we adapt MSA Transformer, a protein language model, to the problem of automated phonological reconstruction. MSA Transformer trains on multiple sequence alignments as input and is, thus, apt for application on aligned cognate words. We, hence, name our model as Cognate Transformer. We also apply the model on another associated task, namely, cognate reflex prediction, where a reflex word in a daughter language is predicted based on cognate words from other daughter languages. We show that our model outperforms the existing models on both tasks, especially when it is pre-trained on masked word prediction task. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Boosting Black-box Attack to Deep Neural Networks with Conditional  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07492  
**Abstract:** Existing black-box attacks have demonstrated promising potential in creating adversarial examples (AE) to deceive deep learning models. Most of these attacks need to handle a vast optimization space and require a large number of queries, hence exhibiting limited practical impacts in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel black-box attack strategy, Conditional Diffusion Model Attack (CDMA), to improve the query efficiency of generating AEs under query-limited situations. The key insight of CDMA is to formulate the task of AE synthesis as a distribution transformation problem, i.e., benign examples and their corresponding AEs can be regarded as coming from two distinctive distributions and can transform from each other with a particular converter. Unlike the conventional \textit{query-and-optimization} approach, we generate eligible AEs with direct conditional transform using the aforementioned data converter, which can significantly reduce the number of queries needed. CDMA adopts the conditional Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model as the converter, which can learn the transformation from clean samples to AEs, and ensure the smooth development of perturbed noise resistant to various defense strategies. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of CDMA by comparing it with nine state-of-the-art black-box attacks across three benchmark datasets. On average, CDMA can reduce the query count to a handful of times; in most cases, the query count is only ONE. We also show that CDMA can obtain $>99\%$ attack success rate for untarget attacks over all datasets and targeted attack over CIFAR-10 with the noise budget of $\epsilon=16$. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** ViT-A*: Legged Robot Path Planning using Vision Transformer A*  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07525  
**Abstract:** Legged robots, particularly quadrupeds, offer promising navigation capabilities, especially in scenarios requiring traversal over diverse terrains and obstacle avoidance. This paper addresses the challenge of enabling legged robots to navigate complex environments effectively through the integration of data-driven path-planning methods. We propose an approach that utilizes differentiable planners, allowing the learning of end-to-end global plans via a neural network for commanding quadruped robots. The approach leverages 2D maps and obstacle specifications as inputs to generate a global path. To enhance the functionality of the developed neural network-based path planner, we use Vision Transformers (ViT) for map pre-processing, to enable the effective handling of larger maps. Experimental evaluations on two real robotic quadrupeds (Boston Dynamics Spot and Unitree Go1) demonstrate the effectiveness and versatility of the proposed approach in generating reliable path plans. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Third order tensor-oriented directional splitting for exponential  integrators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07551  
**Abstract:** Suitable discretizations through tensor product formulas of popular multidimensional operators (diffusion--advection, for instance) lead to matrices with $d$-dimensional Kronecker sum structure. For evolutionary PDEs containing such operators and integrated in time with exponential integrators, it is of paramount importance to efficiently approximate actions of $\varphi$-functions of this kind of matrices. In this work, we show how to produce directional split approximations of third order with respect to the time step size. They conveniently employ tensor-matrix products (realized with highly performance level 3 BLAS) and that allow for the effective usage in practice of exponential integrators up to order three. The approach has been successfully tested against state-of-the-art techniques on two well-known physical models, namely FitzHugh--Nagumo and Schnakenberg. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** ProtoHPE: Prototype-guided High-frequency Patch Enhancement for  Visible-Infrared Person Re-identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07552  
**Abstract:** Visible-infrared person re-identification is challenging due to the large modality gap. To bridge the gap, most studies heavily rely on the correlation of visible-infrared holistic person images, which may perform poorly under severe distribution shifts. In contrast, we find that some cross-modal correlated high-frequency components contain discriminative visual patterns and are less affected by variations such as wavelength, pose, and background clutter than holistic images. Therefore, we are motivated to bridge the modality gap based on such high-frequency components, and propose \textbf{Proto}type-guided \textbf{H}igh-frequency \textbf{P}atch \textbf{E}nhancement (ProtoHPE) with two core designs. \textbf{First}, to enhance the representation ability of cross-modal correlated high-frequency components, we split patches with such components by Wavelet Transform and exponential moving average Vision Transformer (ViT), then empower ViT to take the split patches as auxiliary input. \textbf{Second}, to obtain semantically compact and discriminative high-frequency representations of the same identity, we propose Multimodal Prototypical Contrast. To be specific, it hierarchically captures the comprehensive semantics of different modal instances, facilitating the aggregation of high-frequency representations belonging to the same identity. With it, ViT can capture key high-frequency components during inference without relying on ProtoHPE, thus bringing no extra complexity. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of ProtoHPE. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Relational Prior Knowledge Graphs for Detection and Instance  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07573  
**Abstract:** Humans have a remarkable ability to perceive and reason about the world around them by understanding the relationships between objects. In this paper, we investigate the effectiveness of using such relationships for object detection and instance segmentation. To this end, we propose a Relational Prior-based Feature Enhancement Model (RP-FEM), a graph transformer that enhances object proposal features using relational priors. The proposed architecture operates on top of scene graphs obtained from initial proposals and aims to concurrently learn relational context modeling for object detection and instance segmentation. Experimental evaluations on COCO show that the utilization of scene graphs, augmented with relational priors, offer benefits for object detection and instance segmentation. RP-FEM demonstrates its capacity to suppress improbable class predictions within the image while also preventing the model from generating duplicate predictions, leading to improvements over the baseline model on which it is built. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Linear Latent World Models in Simple Transformers: A Case Study on  Othello-GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07582  
**Abstract:** Foundation models exhibit significant capabilities in decision-making and logical deductions. Nonetheless, a continuing discourse persists regarding their genuine understanding of the world as opposed to mere stochastic mimicry. This paper meticulously examines a simple transformer trained for Othello, extending prior research to enhance comprehension of the emergent world model of Othello-GPT. The investigation reveals that Othello-GPT encapsulates a linear representation of opposing pieces, a factor that causally steers its decision-making process. This paper further elucidates the interplay between the linear world representation and causal decision-making, and their dependence on layer depth and model complexity. We have made the code public. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Transformers for Green Semantic Communication: Less Energy, More  Semantics  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07592  
**Abstract:** Semantic communication aims to transmit meaningful and effective information rather than focusing on individual symbols or bits, resulting in benefits like reduced latency, bandwidth usage, and higher throughput compared to traditional communication. However, semantic communication poses significant challenges due to the need for universal metrics for benchmarking the joint effects of semantic information loss and practical energy consumption. This research presents a novel multi-objective loss function named "Energy-Optimized Semantic Loss" (EOSL), addressing the challenge of balancing semantic information loss and energy consumption. Through comprehensive experiments on transformer models, including CPU and GPU energy usage, it is demonstrated that EOSL-based encoder model selection can save up to 90\% of energy while achieving a 44\% improvement in semantic similarity performance during inference in this experiment. This work paves the way for energy-efficient neural network selection and the development of greener semantic communication architectures. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Democratizing LLMs: An Exploration of Cost-Performance Trade-offs in  Self-Refined Open-Source Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07611  
**Abstract:** The dominance of proprietary LLMs has led to restricted access and raised information privacy concerns. High-performing open-source alternatives are crucial for information-sensitive and high-volume applications but often lag behind in performance. To address this gap, we propose (1) A untargeted variant of iterative self-critique and self-refinement devoid of external influence. (2) A novel ranking metric - Performance, Refinement, and Inference Cost Score (PeRFICS) - to find the optimal model for a given task considering refined performance and cost. Our experiments show that SoTA open source models of varying sizes from 7B - 65B, on average, improve 8.2% from their baseline performance. Strikingly, even models with extremely small memory footprints, such as Vicuna-7B, show a 11.74% improvement overall and up to a 25.39% improvement in high-creativity, open ended tasks on the Vicuna benchmark. Vicuna-13B takes it a step further and outperforms ChatGPT post-refinement. This work has profound implications for resource-constrained and information-sensitive environments seeking to leverage LLMs without incurring prohibitive costs, compromising on performance and privacy. The domain-agnostic self-refinement process coupled with our novel ranking metric facilitates informed decision-making in model selection, thereby reducing costs and democratizing access to high-performing language models, as evidenced by case studies. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** PHYDI: Initializing Parameterized Hypercomplex Neural Networks as  Identity Functions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07612  
**Abstract:** Neural models based on hypercomplex algebra systems are growing and prolificating for a plethora of applications, ranging from computer vision to natural language processing. Hand in hand with their adoption, parameterized hypercomplex neural networks (PHNNs) are growing in size and no techniques have been adopted so far to control their convergence at a large scale. In this paper, we study PHNNs convergence and propose parameterized hypercomplex identity initialization (PHYDI), a method to improve their convergence at different scales, leading to more robust performance when the number of layers scales up, while also reaching the same performance with fewer iterations. We show the effectiveness of this approach in different benchmarks and with common PHNNs with ResNets- and Transformer-based architecture. The code is available at https://github.com/ispamm/PHYDI. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Graph Transformer Network for Flood Forecasting with Heterogeneous  Covariates  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07631  
**Abstract:** Floods can be very destructive causing heavy damage to life, property, and livelihoods. Global climate change and the consequent sea-level rise have increased the occurrence of extreme weather events, resulting in elevated and frequent flood risk. Therefore, accurate and timely flood forecasting in coastal river systems is critical to facilitate good flood management. However, the computational tools currently used are either slow or inaccurate. In this paper, we propose a Flood prediction tool using Graph Transformer Network (FloodGTN) for river systems. More specifically, FloodGTN learns the spatio-temporal dependencies of water levels at different monitoring stations using Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) and an LSTM. It is currently implemented to consider external covariates such as rainfall, tide, and the settings of hydraulic structures (e.g., outflows of dams, gates, pumps, etc.) along the river. We use a Transformer to learn the attention given to external covariates in computing water levels. We apply the FloodGTN tool to data from the South Florida Water Management District, which manages a coastal area prone to frequent storms and hurricanes. Experimental results show that FloodGTN outperforms the physics-based model (HEC-RAS) by achieving higher accuracy with 70% improvement while speeding up run times by at least 500x. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** OpsEval: A Comprehensive Task-Oriented AIOps Benchmark for Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07637  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable capabilities in NLP-related tasks such as translation, summarizing, and generation. The application of LLMs in specific areas, notably AIOps (Artificial Intelligence for IT Operations), holds great potential due to their advanced abilities in information summarizing, report analyzing, and ability of API calling. Nevertheless, the performance of current LLMs in AIOps tasks is yet to be determined. Furthermore, a comprehensive benchmark is required to steer the optimization of LLMs tailored for AIOps. Compared with existing benchmarks that focus on evaluating specific fields like network configuration, in this paper, we present \textbf{OpsEval}, a comprehensive task-oriented AIOps benchmark designed for LLMs. For the first time, OpsEval assesses LLMs' proficiency in three crucial scenarios (Wired Network Operation, 5G Communication Operation, and Database Operation) at various ability levels (knowledge recall, analytical thinking, and practical application). The benchmark includes 7,200 questions in both multiple-choice and question-answer (QA) formats, available in English and Chinese. With quantitative and qualitative results, we show how various LLM tricks can affect the performance of AIOps, including zero-shot, chain-of-thought, and few-shot in-context learning. We find that GPT4-score is more consistent with experts than widely used Bleu and Rouge, which can be used to replace automatic metrics for large-scale qualitative evaluations. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Rethinking the BERT-like Pretraining for DNA Sequences  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07644  
**Abstract:** With the success of large-scale pretraining in NLP, there is an increasing trend of applying it to the domain of life sciences. In particular, pretraining methods based on DNA sequences have garnered growing attention due to their potential to capture generic information about genes. However, existing pretraining methods for DNA sequences largely rely on direct adoptions of BERT pretraining from NLP, lacking a comprehensive understanding and a specifically tailored approach. To address this research gap, we first conducted a series of exploratory experiments and gained several insightful observations: 1) In the fine-tuning phase of downstream tasks, when using K-mer overlapping tokenization instead of K-mer non-overlapping tokenization, both overlapping and non-overlapping pretraining weights show consistent performance improvement.2) During the pre-training process, using K-mer overlapping tokenization quickly produces clear K-mer embeddings and reduces the loss to a very low level, while using K-mer non-overlapping tokenization results in less distinct embeddings and continuously decreases the loss. 3) Using overlapping tokenization causes the self-attention in the intermediate layers of pre-trained models to tend to overly focus on certain tokens, reflecting that these layers are not adequately optimized. In summary, overlapping tokenization can benefit the fine-tuning of downstream tasks but leads to inadequate pretraining with fast convergence. To unleash the pretraining potential, we introduce a novel approach called RandomMask, which gradually increases the task difficulty of BERT-like pretraining by continuously expanding its mask boundary, forcing the model to learn more knowledge. RandomMask is simple but effective, achieving top-tier performance across 26 datasets of 28 datasets spanning 7 downstream tasks. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** LLM4Vis: Explainable Visualization Recommendation using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07652  
**Abstract:** Data visualization is a powerful tool for exploring and communicating insights in various domains. To automate visualization choice for datasets, a task known as visualization recommendation has been proposed. Various machine-learning-based approaches have been developed for this purpose, but they often require a large corpus of dataset-visualization pairs for training and lack natural explanations for their results. To address this research gap, we propose LLM4Vis, a novel ChatGPT-based prompting approach to perform visualization recommendation and return human-like explanations using very few demonstration examples. Our approach involves feature description, demonstration example selection, explanation generation, demonstration example construction, and inference steps. To obtain demonstration examples with high-quality explanations, we propose a new explanation generation bootstrapping to iteratively refine generated explanations by considering the previous generation and template-based hint. Evaluations on the VizML dataset show that LLM4Vis outperforms or performs similarly to supervised learning models like Random Forest, Decision Tree, and MLP in both few-shot and zero-shot settings. The qualitative evaluation also shows the effectiveness of explanations generated by LLM4Vis. We make our code publicly available at \href{https://github.com/demoleiwang/LLM4Vis}{https://github.com/demoleiwang/LLM4Vis}. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Mini-DALLE3: Interactive Text to Image by Prompting Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07653  
**Abstract:** The revolution of artificial intelligence content generation has been rapidly accelerated with the booming text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models. Within just two years of development, it was unprecedentedly of high-quality, diversity, and creativity that the state-of-the-art models could generate. However, a prevalent limitation persists in the effective communication with these popular T2I models, such as Stable Diffusion, using natural language descriptions. This typically makes an engaging image hard to obtain without expertise in prompt engineering with complex word compositions, magic tags, and annotations. Inspired by the recently released DALLE3 - a T2I model directly built-in ChatGPT that talks human language, we revisit the existing T2I systems endeavoring to align human intent and introduce a new task - interactive text to image (iT2I), where people can interact with LLM for interleaved high-quality image generation/edit/refinement and question answering with stronger images and text correspondences using natural language. In addressing the iT2I problem, we present a simple approach that augments LLMs for iT2I with prompting techniques and off-the-shelf T2I models. We evaluate our approach for iT2I in a variety of common-used scenarios under different LLMs, e.g., ChatGPT, LLAMA, Baichuan, and InternLM. We demonstrate that our approach could be a convenient and low-cost way to introduce the iT2I ability for any existing LLMs and any text-to-image models without any training while bringing little degradation on LLMs' inherent capabilities in, e.g., question answering and code generation. We hope this work could draw broader attention and provide inspiration for boosting user experience in human-machine interactions alongside the image quality of the next-generation T2I systems. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Well Begun is Half Done: Generator-agnostic Knowledge Pre-Selection for  Knowledge-Grounded Dialogue  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07659  
**Abstract:** Accurate knowledge selection is critical in knowledge-grounded dialogue systems. Towards a closer look at it, we offer a novel perspective to organize existing literature, i.e., knowledge selection coupled with, after, and before generation. We focus on the third under-explored category of study, which can not only select knowledge accurately in advance, but has the advantage to reduce the learning, adjustment, and interpretation burden of subsequent response generation models, especially LLMs. We propose GATE, a generator-agnostic knowledge selection method, to prepare knowledge for subsequent response generation models by selecting context-related knowledge among different knowledge structures and variable knowledge requirements. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of GATE, and indicate that knowledge selection before generation is a lightweight yet effective way to facilitate LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT) to generate more informative responses. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Global Minima, Recoverability Thresholds, and Higher-Order Structure in  GNNS  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07667  
**Abstract:** We analyze the performance of graph neural network (GNN) architectures from the perspective of random graph theory. Our approach promises to complement existing lenses on GNN analysis, such as combinatorial expressive power and worst-case adversarial analysis, by connecting the performance of GNNs to typical-case properties of the training data. First, we theoretically characterize the nodewise accuracy of one- and two-layer GCNs relative to the contextual stochastic block model (cSBM) and related models. We additionally prove that GCNs cannot beat linear models under certain circumstances. Second, we numerically map the recoverability thresholds, in terms of accuracy, of four diverse GNN architectures (GCN, GAT, SAGE, and Graph Transformer) under a variety of assumptions about the data. Sample results of this second analysis include: heavy-tailed degree distributions enhance GNN performance, GNNs can work well on strongly heterophilous graphs, and SAGE and Graph Transformer can perform well on arbitrarily noisy edge data, but no architecture handled sufficiently noisy feature data well. Finally, we show how both specific higher-order structures in synthetic data and the mix of empirical structures in real data have dramatic effects (usually negative) on GNN performance. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Controllable Data Generation Via Iterative Data-Property Mutual Mappings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07683  
**Abstract:** Deep generative models have been widely used for their ability to generate realistic data samples in various areas, such as images, molecules, text, and speech. One major goal of data generation is controllability, namely to generate new data with desired properties. Despite growing interest in the area of controllable generation, significant challenges still remain, including 1) disentangling desired properties with unrelated latent variables, 2) out-of-distribution property control, and 3) objective optimization for out-of-distribution property control. To address these challenges, in this paper, we propose a general framework to enhance VAE-based data generators with property controllability and ensure disentanglement. Our proposed objective can be optimized on both data seen and unseen in the training set. We propose a training procedure to train the objective in a semi-supervised manner by iteratively conducting mutual mappings between the data and properties. The proposed framework is implemented on four VAE-based controllable generators to evaluate its performance on property error, disentanglement, generation quality, and training time. The results indicate that our proposed framework enables more precise control over the properties of generated samples in a short training time, ensuring the disentanglement and keeping the validity of the generated samples. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** ConditionVideo: Training-Free Condition-Guided Text-to-Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07697  
**Abstract:** Recent works have successfully extended large-scale text-to-image models to the video domain, producing promising results but at a high computational cost and requiring a large amount of video data. In this work, we introduce ConditionVideo, a training-free approach to text-to-video generation based on the provided condition, video, and input text, by leveraging the power of off-the-shelf text-to-image generation methods (e.g., Stable Diffusion). ConditionVideo generates realistic dynamic videos from random noise or given scene videos. Our method explicitly disentangles the motion representation into condition-guided and scenery motion components. To this end, the ConditionVideo model is designed with a UNet branch and a control branch. To improve temporal coherence, we introduce sparse bi-directional spatial-temporal attention (sBiST-Attn). The 3D control network extends the conventional 2D controlnet model, aiming to strengthen conditional generation accuracy by additionally leveraging the bi-directional frames in the temporal domain. Our method exhibits superior performance in terms of frame consistency, clip score, and conditional accuracy, outperforming other compared methods. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** From Scarcity to Efficiency: Improving CLIP Training via Visual-enriched  Captions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07699  
**Abstract:** Web-crawled datasets are pivotal to the success of pre-training vision-language models, exemplified by CLIP. However, web-crawled AltTexts can be noisy and potentially irrelevant to images, thereby undermining the crucial image-text alignment. Existing methods for rewriting captions using large language models (LLMs) have shown promise on small, curated datasets like CC3M and CC12M. Nevertheless, their efficacy on massive web-captured captions is constrained by the inherent noise and randomness in such data. In this study, we address this limitation by focusing on two key aspects: data quality and data variety. Unlike recent LLM rewriting techniques, we emphasize exploiting visual concepts and their integration into the captions to improve data quality. For data variety, we propose a novel mixed training scheme that optimally leverages AltTexts alongside newly generated Visual-enriched Captions (VeC). We use CLIP as one example and adapt the method for CLIP training on large-scale web-crawled datasets, named VeCLIP. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation of VeCLIP across small, medium, and large scales of raw data. Our results show significant advantages in image-text alignment and overall model performance, underscoring the effectiveness of VeCLIP in improving CLIP training. For example, VeCLIP achieves a remarkable over 20% improvement in COCO and Flickr30k retrieval tasks under the 12M setting. For data efficiency, we also achieve a notable over 3% improvement while using only 14% of the data employed in the vanilla CLIP and 11% in ALIGN. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** ScaleCrafter: Tuning-free Higher-Resolution Visual Generation with  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07702  
**Abstract:** In this work, we investigate the capability of generating images from pre-trained diffusion models at much higher resolutions than the training image sizes. In addition, the generated images should have arbitrary image aspect ratios. When generating images directly at a higher resolution, 1024 x 1024, with the pre-trained Stable Diffusion using training images of resolution 512 x 512, we observe persistent problems of object repetition and unreasonable object structures. Existing works for higher-resolution generation, such as attention-based and joint-diffusion approaches, cannot well address these issues. As a new perspective, we examine the structural components of the U-Net in diffusion models and identify the crucial cause as the limited perception field of convolutional kernels. Based on this key observation, we propose a simple yet effective re-dilation that can dynamically adjust the convolutional perception field during inference. We further propose the dispersed convolution and noise-damped classifier-free guidance, which can enable ultra-high-resolution image generation (e.g., 4096 x 4096). Notably, our approach does not require any training or optimization. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach can address the repetition issue well and achieve state-of-the-art performance on higher-resolution image synthesis, especially in texture details. Our work also suggests that a pre-trained diffusion model trained on low-resolution images can be directly used for high-resolution visual generation without further tuning, which may provide insights for future research on ultra-high-resolution image and video synthesis. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Pixel State Value Network for Combined Prediction and Planning in  Interactive Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07706  
**Abstract:** Automated vehicles operating in urban environments have to reliably interact with other traffic participants. Planning algorithms often utilize separate prediction modules forecasting probabilistic, multi-modal, and interactive behaviors of objects. Designing prediction and planning as two separate modules introduces significant challenges, particularly due to the interdependence of these modules. This work proposes a deep learning methodology to combine prediction and planning. A conditional GAN with the U-Net architecture is trained to predict two high-resolution image sequences. The sequences represent explicit motion predictions, mainly used to train context understanding, and pixel state values suitable for planning encoding kinematic reachability, object dynamics, safety, and driving comfort. The model can be trained offline on target images rendered by a sampling-based model-predictive planner, leveraging real-world driving data. Our results demonstrate intuitive behavior in complex situations, such as lane changes amidst conflicting objectives. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** MatFormer: Nested Transformer for Elastic Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07707  
**Abstract:** Transformer models are deployed in a wide range of settings, from multi-accelerator clusters to standalone mobile phones. The diverse inference constraints in these scenarios necessitate practitioners to train foundation models such as PaLM 2, Llama, & ViTs as a series of models of varying sizes. Due to significant training costs, only a select few model sizes are trained and supported, limiting more fine-grained control over relevant tradeoffs, including latency, cost, and accuracy. This work introduces MatFormer, a nested Transformer architecture designed to offer elasticity in a variety of deployment constraints. Each Feed Forward Network (FFN) block of a MatFormer model is jointly optimized with a few nested smaller FFN blocks. This training procedure allows for the Mix'n'Match of model granularities across layers -- i.e., a trained universal MatFormer model enables extraction of hundreds of accurate smaller models, which were never explicitly optimized. We empirically demonstrate MatFormer's effectiveness across different model classes (decoders & encoders), modalities (language & vision), and scales (up to 2.6B parameters). We find that a 2.6B decoder-only MatFormer language model (MatLM) allows us to extract smaller models spanning from 1.5B to 2.6B, each exhibiting comparable validation loss and one-shot downstream evaluations to their independently trained counterparts. Furthermore, we observe that smaller encoders extracted from a universal MatFormer-based ViT (MatViT) encoder preserve the metric-space structure for adaptive large-scale retrieval. Finally, we showcase that speculative decoding with the accurate and consistent submodels extracted from MatFormer can further reduce inference latency. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Found in the Middle: Permutation Self-Consistency Improves Listwise  Ranking in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07712  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) exhibit positional bias in how they use context, which especially complicates listwise ranking. To address this, we propose permutation self-consistency, a form of self-consistency over ranking list outputs of black-box LLMs. Our key idea is to marginalize out different list orders in the prompt to produce an order-independent ranking with less positional bias. First, given some input prompt, we repeatedly shuffle the list in the prompt and pass it through the LLM while holding the instructions the same. Next, we aggregate the resulting sample of rankings by computing the central ranking closest in distance to all of them, marginalizing out prompt order biases in the process. Theoretically, we prove the robustness of our method, showing convergence to the true ranking in the presence of random perturbations. Empirically, on five list-ranking datasets in sorting and passage reranking, our approach improves scores from conventional inference by up to 7-18% for GPT-3.5 and 8-16% for LLaMA v2 (70B), surpassing the previous state of the art in passage reranking. Our code is at https://github.com/castorini/perm-sc. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** InstructRetro: Instruction Tuning post Retrieval-Augmented Pretraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07713  
**Abstract:** Pretraining auto-regressive large language models (LLMs) with retrieval demonstrates better perplexity and factual accuracy by leveraging external databases. However, the size of existing pretrained retrieval-augmented LLM is still limited (e.g., Retro has 7.5B parameters), which limits the effectiveness of instruction tuning and zero-shot generalization. In this work, we introduce Retro 48B, the largest LLM pretrained with retrieval before instruction tuning. Specifically, we continue to pretrain the 43B GPT model on additional 100 billion tokens using the Retro augmentation method by retrieving from 1.2 trillion tokens. The obtained foundation model, Retro 48B, largely outperforms the original 43B GPT in terms of perplexity. After instruction tuning on Retro, InstructRetro demonstrates significant improvement over the instruction tuned GPT on zero-shot question answering (QA) tasks. Specifically, the average improvement of InstructRetro is 7% over its GPT counterpart across 8 short-form QA tasks, and 10% over GPT across 4 challenging long-form QA tasks. Surprisingly, we find that one can ablate the encoder from InstructRetro architecture and directly use its decoder backbone, while achieving comparable results. We hypothesize that pretraining with retrieval makes its decoder good at incorporating context for QA. Our results highlights the promising direction to obtain a better GPT decoder for QA through continued pretraining with retrieval before instruction tuning. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** Stochastic Super-resolution of Cosmological Simulations with Denoising  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06929  
**Abstract:** In recent years, deep learning models have been successfully employed for augmenting low-resolution cosmological simulations with small-scale information, a task known as "super-resolution". So far, these cosmological super-resolution models have relied on generative adversarial networks (GANs), which can achieve highly realistic results, but suffer from various shortcomings (e.g. low sample diversity). We introduce denoising diffusion models as a powerful generative model for super-resolving cosmic large-scale structure predictions (as a first proof-of-concept in two dimensions). To obtain accurate results down to small scales, we develop a new "filter-boosted" training approach that redistributes the importance of different scales in the pixel-wise training objective. We demonstrate that our model not only produces convincing super-resolution images and power spectra consistent at the percent level, but is also able to reproduce the diversity of small-scale features consistent with a given low-resolution simulation. This enables uncertainty quantification for the generated small-scale features, which is critical for the usefulness of such super-resolution models as a viable surrogate model for cosmic structure formation. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Diffusion Prior Regularized Iterative Reconstruction for Low-dose CT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.06949  
**Abstract:** Computed tomography (CT) involves a patient's exposure to ionizing radiation. To reduce the radiation dose, we can either lower the X-ray photon count or down-sample projection views. However, either of the ways often compromises image quality. To address this challenge, here we introduce an iterative reconstruction algorithm regularized by a diffusion prior. Drawing on the exceptional imaging prowess of the denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM), we merge it with a reconstruction procedure that prioritizes data fidelity. This fusion capitalizes on the merits of both techniques, delivering exceptional reconstruction results in an unsupervised framework. To further enhance the efficiency of the reconstruction process, we incorporate the Nesterov momentum acceleration technique. This enhancement facilitates superior diffusion sampling in fewer steps. As demonstrated in our experiments, our method offers a potential pathway to high-definition CT image reconstruction with minimized radiation. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** BeSt-LeS: Benchmarking Stroke Lesion Segmentation using Deep Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07060  
**Abstract:** Brain stroke has become a significant burden on global health and thus we need remedies and prevention strategies to overcome this challenge. For this, the immediate identification of stroke and risk stratification is the primary task for clinicians. To aid expert clinicians, automated segmentation models are crucial. In this work, we consider the publicly available dataset ATLAS $v2.0$ to benchmark various end-to-end supervised U-Net style models. Specifically, we have benchmarked models on both 2D and 3D brain images and evaluated them using standard metrics. We have achieved the highest Dice score of 0.583 on the 2D transformer-based model and 0.504 on the 3D residual U-Net respectively. We have conducted the Wilcoxon test for 3D models to correlate the relationship between predicted and actual stroke volume. For reproducibility, the code and model weights are made publicly available: https://github.com/prantik-pdeb/BeSt-LeS. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Echocardiography video synthesis from end diastolic semantic map via  diffusion model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07131  
**Abstract:** Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) have demonstrated significant achievements in various image and video generation tasks, including the domain of medical imaging. However, generating echocardiography videos based on semantic anatomical information remains an unexplored area of research. This is mostly due to the constraints imposed by the currently available datasets, which lack sufficient scale and comprehensive frame-wise annotations for every cardiac cycle. This paper aims to tackle the aforementioned challenges by expanding upon existing video diffusion models for the purpose of cardiac video synthesis. More specifically, our focus lies in generating video using semantic maps of the initial frame during the cardiac cycle, commonly referred to as end diastole. To further improve the synthesis process, we integrate spatial adaptive normalization into multiscale feature maps. This enables the inclusion of semantic guidance during synthesis, resulting in enhanced realism and coherence of the resultant video sequences. Experiments are conducted on the CAMUS dataset, which is a highly used dataset in the field of echocardiography. Our model exhibits better performance compared to the standard diffusion technique in terms of multiple metrics, including FID, FVD, and SSMI. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Synthesizing Missing MRI Sequences from Available Modalities using  Generative Adversarial Networks in BraTS Dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07250  
**Abstract:** Glioblastoma is a highly aggressive and lethal form of brain cancer. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) plays a significant role in the diagnosis, treatment planning, and follow-up of glioblastoma patients due to its non-invasive and radiation-free nature. The International Brain Tumor Segmentation (BraTS) challenge has contributed to generating numerous AI algorithms to accurately and efficiently segment glioblastoma sub-compartments using four structural (T1, T1Gd, T2, T2-FLAIR) MRI scans. However, these four MRI sequences may not always be available. To address this issue, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) can be used to synthesize the missing MRI sequences. In this paper, we implement and utilize an open-source GAN approach that takes any three MRI sequences as input to generate the missing fourth structural sequence. Our proposed approach is contributed to the community-driven generally nuanced deep learning framework (GaNDLF) and demonstrates promising results in synthesizing high-quality and realistic MRI sequences, enabling clinicians to improve their diagnostic capabilities and support the application of AI methods to brain tumor MRI quantification. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Diagnosing Bipolar Disorder from 3-D Structural Magnetic Resonance  Images Using a Hybrid GAN-CNN Method  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07359  
**Abstract:** Bipolar Disorder (BD) is a psychiatric condition diagnosed by repetitive cycles of hypomania and depression. Since diagnosing BD relies on subjective behavioral assessments over a long period, a solid diagnosis based on objective criteria is not straightforward. The current study responded to the described obstacle by proposing a hybrid GAN-CNN model to diagnose BD from 3-D structural MRI Images (sMRI). The novelty of this study stems from diagnosing BD from sMRI samples rather than conventional datasets such as functional MRI (fMRI), electroencephalography (EEG), and behavioral symptoms while removing the data insufficiency usually encountered when dealing with sMRI samples. The impact of various augmentation ratios is also tested using 5-fold cross-validation. Based on the results, this study obtains an accuracy rate of 75.8%, a sensitivity of 60.3%, and a specificity of 82.5%, which are 3-5% higher than prior work while utilizing less than 6% sample counts. Next, it is demonstrated that a 2- D layer-based GAN generator can effectively reproduce complex 3D brain samples, a more straightforward technique than manual image processing. Lastly, the optimum augmentation threshold for the current study using 172 sMRI samples is 50%, showing the applicability of the described method for larger sMRI datasets. In conclusion, it is established that data augmentation using GAN improves the accuracy of the CNN classifier using sMRI samples, thus developing more reliable decision support systems to assist practitioners in identifying BD patients more reliably and in a shorter period 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** PtychoDV: Vision Transformer-Based Deep Unrolling Network for  Ptychographic Image Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07504  
**Abstract:** Ptychography is an imaging technique that captures multiple overlapping snapshots of a sample, illuminated coherently by a moving localized probe. The image recovery from ptychographic data is generally achieved via an iterative algorithm that solves a nonlinear phase-field problem derived from measured diffraction patterns. However, these approaches have high computational cost. In this paper, we introduce PtychoDV, a novel deep model-based network designed for efficient, high-quality ptychographic image reconstruction. PtychoDV comprises a vision transformer that generates an initial image from the set of raw measurements, taking into consideration their mutual correlations. This is followed by a deep unrolling network that refines the initial image using learnable convolutional priors and the ptychography measurement model. Experimental results on simulated data demonstrate that PtychoDV is capable of outperforming existing deep learning methods for this problem, and significantly reduces computational cost compared to iterative methodologies, while maintaining competitive performance. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** ChatGPT for Computational Topology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.07570  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT represents a significant milestone in the field of artificial intelligence (AI), finding widespread applications across diverse domains. However, its effectiveness in mathematical contexts has been somewhat constrained by its susceptibility to conceptual errors. Concurrently, topological data analysis (TDA), a relatively new discipline, has garnered substantial interest in recent years. Nonetheless, the advancement of TDA is impeded by the limited understanding of computational algorithms and coding proficiency among theoreticians. This work endeavors to bridge the gap between theoretical topological concepts and their practical implementation in computational topology through the utilization of ChatGPT. We showcase how a pure theoretician, devoid of computational experience and coding skills, can effectively transform mathematical formulations and concepts into functional code for computational topology with the assistance of ChatGPT. Our strategy outlines a productive process wherein a mathematician trains ChatGPT on pure mathematical concepts, steers ChatGPT towards generating computational topology code, and subsequently validates the generated code using established examples. Our specific case studies encompass the computation of Betti numbers, Laplacian matrices, and Dirac matrices for simplicial complexes, as well as the persistence of various homologies and Laplacians. Furthermore, we explore the application of ChatGPT in computing recently developed topological theories for hypergraphs and digraphs. This work serves as an initial step towards effectively transforming pure mathematical theories into practical computational tools, with the ultimate goal of enabling real applications across diverse fields. 

