**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Inappropriate Benefits and Identification of ChatGPT Misuse in  Programming Tests: A Controlled Experiment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16697  
**Abstract:** While ChatGPT may help students to learn to program, it can be misused to do plagiarism, a breach of academic integrity. Students can ask ChatGPT to complete a programming task, generating a solution from other people's work without proper acknowledgment of the source(s). To help address this new kind of plagiarism, we performed a controlled experiment measuring the inappropriate benefits of using ChatGPT in terms of completion time and programming performance. We also reported how to manually identify programs aided with ChatGPT (via student behavior while using ChatGPT) and student perspective of ChatGPT (via a survey). Seventeen students participated in the experiment. They were asked to complete two programming tests. They were divided into two groups per the test: one group should complete the test without help while the other group should complete it with ChatGPT. Our study shows that students with ChatGPT complete programming tests two times faster than those without ChatGPT, though their programming performance is comparable. The generated code is highly efficient and uses complex data structures like lists and dictionaries. Based on the survey results, ChatGPT is recommended to be used as an assistant to complete programming tasks and other general assignments. ChatGPT will be beneficial as a reference as other search engines do. Logical and critical thinking are needed to validate the result presented by ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Decoding Imagery: Unleashing Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16705  
**Abstract:** In a challenge-response study, we subjected Google Bard to 64 visual challenges designed to probe multimodal Large Language Models (LLMs). The challenges spanned diverse categories, including "Visual Situational Reasoning," "Visual Text Reasoning," and "Next Scene Prediction," among others, to discern Bard's competence in melding visual and linguistic analyses. Our findings indicate that Bard tends to rely on making educated guesses about visuals, especially when determining cues from images. Unlike other models like GPT4, Bard does not appear to rely on optical character recognition libraries like Tesseract but recognizes text in complex images like deep learning models such as Google Lens and Visual API. Significantly Bard can solve CAPTCHAs visually that ChatGPT fails to understand, recommending Tesseract solutions. Moreover, while the Bard model proposes solutions based on visual input, it cannot recreate or modify the original visual objects to support its conclusions. Bard fails to redraw ASCII art that the text can describe or capture a simple Tic Tac Toe grid it claims to analyze for the next moves. This study provides experimental insights into the current capacities and areas for improvement in multimodal LLMs. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** GPT-Lab: Next Generation Of Optimal Chemistry Discovery By GPT Driven  Robotic Lab  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16721  
**Abstract:** The integration of robots in chemical experiments has enhanced experimental efficiency, but lacking the human intelligence to comprehend literature, they seldom provide assistance in experimental design. Therefore, achieving full-process autonomy from experiment design to validation in self-driven laboratories (SDL) remains a challenge. The introduction of Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT), particularly GPT-4, into robotic experimentation offers a solution. We introduce GPT-Lab, a paradigm that employs GPT models to give robots human-like intelligence. With our robotic experimentation platform, GPT-Lab mines literature for materials and methods and validates findings through high-throughput synthesis. As a demonstration, GPT-Lab analyzed 500 articles, identified 18 potential reagents, and successfully produced an accurate humidity colorimetric sensor with a root mean square error (RMSE) of 2.68%. This showcases the rapid materials discovery and validation potential of our system. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Memory in Plain Sight: A Survey of the Uncanny Resemblances between  Diffusion Models and Associative Memories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16750  
**Abstract:** Diffusion Models (DMs) have recently set state-of-the-art on many generation benchmarks. However, there are myriad ways to describe them mathematically, which makes it difficult to develop a simple understanding of how they work. In this survey, we provide a concise overview of DMs from the perspective of dynamical systems and Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) which exposes a mathematical connection to the highly related yet often overlooked class of energy-based models, called Associative Memories (AMs). Energy-based AMs are a theoretical framework that behave much like denoising DMs, but they enable us to directly compute a Lyapunov energy function on which we can perform gradient descent to denoise data. We then summarize the 40 year history of energy-based AMs, beginning with the original Hopfield Network, and discuss new research directions for AMs and DMs that are revealed by characterizing the extent of their similarities and differences 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** How many words does ChatGPT know? The answer is ChatWords  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16777  
**Abstract:** The introduction of ChatGPT has put Artificial Intelligence (AI) Natural Language Processing (NLP) in the spotlight. ChatGPT adoption has been exponential with millions of users experimenting with it in a myriad of tasks and application domains with impressive results. However, ChatGPT has limitations and suffers hallucinations, for example producing answers that look plausible but they are completely wrong. Evaluating the performance of ChatGPT and similar AI tools is a complex issue that is being explored from different perspectives. In this work, we contribute to those efforts with ChatWords, an automated test system, to evaluate ChatGPT knowledge of an arbitrary set of words. ChatWords is designed to be extensible, easy to use, and adaptable to evaluate also other NLP AI tools. ChatWords is publicly available and its main goal is to facilitate research on the lexical knowledge of AI tools. The benefits of ChatWords are illustrated with two case studies: evaluating the knowledge that ChatGPT has of the Spanish lexicon (taken from the official dictionary of the "Real Academia Espa\~nola") and of the words that appear in the Quixote, the well-known novel written by Miguel de Cervantes. The results show that ChatGPT is only able to recognize approximately 80% of the words in the dictionary and 90% of the words in the Quixote, in some cases with an incorrect meaning. The implications of the lexical knowledge of NLP AI tools and potential applications of ChatWords are also discussed providing directions for further work on the study of the lexical knowledge of AI tools. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Curriculum-Driven Edubot: A Framework for Developing Language Learning  Chatbots Through Synthesizing Conversational Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16804  
**Abstract:** Chatbots have become popular in educational settings, revolutionizing how students interact with material and how teachers teach. We present Curriculum-Driven EduBot, a framework for developing a chatbot that combines the interactive features of chatbots with the systematic material of English textbooks to assist students in enhancing their conversational skills. We begin by extracting pertinent topics from textbooks and then using large language models to generate dialogues related to these topics. We then fine-tune an open-source LLM using our generated conversational data to create our curriculum-driven chatbot. User studies demonstrate that our chatbot outperforms ChatGPT in leading curriculum-based dialogues and adapting its dialogue to match the user's English proficiency level. By combining traditional textbook methodologies with conversational AI, our approach offers learners an interactive tool that aligns with their curriculum and provides user-tailored conversation practice. This facilitates meaningful student-bot dialogues and enriches the overall learning experience within the curriculum's pedagogical framework. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** SatDM: Synthesizing Realistic Satellite Image with Semantic Layout  Conditioning using Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16812  
**Abstract:** Deep learning models in the Earth Observation domain heavily rely on the availability of large-scale accurately labeled satellite imagery. However, obtaining and labeling satellite imagery is a resource-intensive endeavor. While generative models offer a promising solution to address data scarcity, their potential remains underexplored. Recently, Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) have demonstrated significant promise in synthesizing realistic images from semantic layouts. In this paper, a conditional DDPM model capable of taking a semantic map and generating high-quality, diverse, and correspondingly accurate satellite images is implemented. Additionally, a comprehensive illustration of the optimization dynamics is provided. The proposed methodology integrates cutting-edge techniques such as variance learning, classifier-free guidance, and improved noise scheduling. The denoising network architecture is further complemented by the incorporation of adaptive normalization and self-attention mechanisms, enhancing the model's capabilities. The effectiveness of our proposed model is validated using a meticulously labeled dataset introduced within the context of this study. Validation encompasses both algorithmic methods such as Frechet Inception Distance (FID) and Intersection over Union (IoU), as well as a human opinion study. Our findings indicate that the generated samples exhibit minimal deviation from real ones, opening doors for practical applications such as data augmentation. We look forward to further explorations of DDPMs in a wider variety of settings and data modalities. An open-source reference implementation of the algorithm and a link to the benchmarked dataset are provided at https://github.com/obaghirli/syn10-diffusion. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** PROSE: Predicting Operators and Symbolic Expressions using Multimodal  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16816  
**Abstract:** Approximating nonlinear differential equations using a neural network provides a robust and efficient tool for various scientific computing tasks, including real-time predictions, inverse problems, optimal controls, and surrogate modeling. Previous works have focused on embedding dynamical systems into networks through two approaches: learning a single solution operator (i.e., the mapping from input parametrized functions to solutions) or learning the governing system of equations (i.e., the constitutive model relative to the state variables). Both of these approaches yield different representations for the same underlying data or function. Additionally, observing that families of differential equations often share key characteristics, we seek one network representation across a wide range of equations. Our method, called Predicting Operators and Symbolic Expressions (PROSE), learns maps from multimodal inputs to multimodal outputs, capable of generating both numerical predictions and mathematical equations. By using a transformer structure and a feature fusion approach, our network can simultaneously embed sets of solution operators for various parametric differential equations using a single trained network. Detailed experiments demonstrate that the network benefits from its multimodal nature, resulting in improved prediction accuracy and better generalization. The network is shown to be able to handle noise in the data and errors in the symbolic representation, including noisy numerical values, model misspecification, and erroneous addition or deletion of terms. PROSE provides a new neural network framework for differential equations which allows for more flexibility and generality in learning operators and governing equations from data. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Sketch2CADScript: 3D Scene Reconstruction from 2D Sketch using Visual  Transformer and Rhino Grasshopper  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16850  
**Abstract:** Existing 3D model reconstruction methods typically produce outputs in the form of voxels, point clouds, or meshes. However, each of these approaches has its limitations and may not be suitable for every scenario. For instance, the resulting model may exhibit a rough surface and distorted structure, making manual editing and post-processing challenging for humans. In this paper, we introduce a novel 3D reconstruction method designed to address these issues. We trained a visual transformer to predict a "scene descriptor" from a single wire-frame image. This descriptor encompasses crucial information, including object types and parameters such as position, rotation, and size. With the predicted parameters, a 3D scene can be reconstructed using 3D modeling software like Blender or Rhino Grasshopper which provides a programmable interface, resulting in finely and easily editable 3D models. To evaluate the proposed model, we created two datasets: one featuring simple scenes and another with complex scenes. The test results demonstrate the model's ability to accurately reconstruct simple scenes but reveal its challenges with more complex ones. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Preface: A Data-driven Volumetric Prior for Few-shot Ultra  High-resolution Face Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16859  
**Abstract:** NeRFs have enabled highly realistic synthesis of human faces including complex appearance and reflectance effects of hair and skin. These methods typically require a large number of multi-view input images, making the process hardware intensive and cumbersome, limiting applicability to unconstrained settings. We propose a novel volumetric human face prior that enables the synthesis of ultra high-resolution novel views of subjects that are not part of the prior's training distribution. This prior model consists of an identity-conditioned NeRF, trained on a dataset of low-resolution multi-view images of diverse humans with known camera calibration. A simple sparse landmark-based 3D alignment of the training dataset allows our model to learn a smooth latent space of geometry and appearance despite a limited number of training identities. A high-quality volumetric representation of a novel subject can be obtained by model fitting to 2 or 3 camera views of arbitrary resolution. Importantly, our method requires as few as two views of casually captured images as input at inference time. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Sourcing Investment Targets for Venture and Growth Capital Using  Multivariate Time Series Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16888  
**Abstract:** This paper addresses the growing application of data-driven approaches within the Private Equity (PE) industry, particularly in sourcing investment targets (i.e., companies) for Venture Capital (VC) and Growth Capital (GC). We present a comprehensive review of the relevant approaches and propose a novel approach leveraging a Transformer-based Multivariate Time Series Classifier (TMTSC) for predicting the success likelihood of any candidate company. The objective of our research is to optimize sourcing performance for VC and GC investments by formally defining the sourcing problem as a multivariate time series classification task. We consecutively introduce the key components of our implementation which collectively contribute to the successful application of TMTSC in VC/GC sourcing: input features, model architecture, optimization target, and investor-centric data augmentation and split. Our extensive experiments on four datasets, benchmarked towards three popular baselines, demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in improving decision making within the VC and GC industry. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Superpixel Transformers for Efficient Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16889  
**Abstract:** Semantic segmentation, which aims to classify every pixel in an image, is a key task in machine perception, with many applications across robotics and autonomous driving. Due to the high dimensionality of this task, most existing approaches use local operations, such as convolutions, to generate per-pixel features. However, these methods are typically unable to effectively leverage global context information due to the high computational costs of operating on a dense image. In this work, we propose a solution to this issue by leveraging the idea of superpixels, an over-segmentation of the image, and applying them with a modern transformer framework. In particular, our model learns to decompose the pixel space into a spatially low dimensional superpixel space via a series of local cross-attentions. We then apply multi-head self-attention to the superpixels to enrich the superpixel features with global context and then directly produce a class prediction for each superpixel. Finally, we directly project the superpixel class predictions back into the pixel space using the associations between the superpixels and the image pixel features. Reasoning in the superpixel space allows our method to be substantially more computationally efficient compared to convolution-based decoder methods. Yet, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in semantic segmentation due to the rich superpixel features generated by the global self-attention mechanism. Our experiments on Cityscapes and ADE20K demonstrate that our method matches the state of the art in terms of accuracy, while outperforming in terms of model parameters and latency. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** A Sign Language Recognition System with Pepper, Lightweight-Transformer,  and LLM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16898  
**Abstract:** This research explores using lightweight deep neural network architectures to enable the humanoid robot Pepper to understand American Sign Language (ASL) and facilitate non-verbal human-robot interaction. First, we introduce a lightweight and efficient model for ASL understanding optimized for embedded systems, ensuring rapid sign recognition while conserving computational resources. Building upon this, we employ large language models (LLMs) for intelligent robot interactions. Through intricate prompt engineering, we tailor interactions to allow the Pepper Robot to generate natural Co-Speech Gesture responses, laying the foundation for more organic and intuitive humanoid-robot dialogues. Finally, we present an integrated software pipeline, embodying advancements in a socially aware AI interaction model. Leveraging the Pepper Robot's capabilities, we demonstrate the practicality and effectiveness of our approach in real-world scenarios. The results highlight a profound potential for enhancing human-robot interaction through non-verbal interactions, bridging communication gaps, and making technology more accessible and understandable. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** TranDRL: A Transformer-Driven Deep Reinforcement Learning Enabled  Prescriptive Maintenance Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16935  
**Abstract:** Industrial systems demand reliable predictive maintenance strategies to enhance operational efficiency and reduce downtime. This paper introduces a novel, integrated framework that leverages the power of transformer neural networks and deep reinforcement learning (DRL) algorithms to optimize maintenance actions. Our approach employs the transformer model to effectively capture complex temporal patterns in sensor data, thereby accurately predicting the Remaining Useful Life (RUL) of equipment. Simultaneously, the DRL component of our framework provides cost-effective and timely maintenance recommendations. We validate the efficacy of our framework on the NASA C-MPASS dataset, where it demonstrates significant advancements in both RUL prediction accuracy and the optimization of maintenance actions. Consequently, our pioneering approach provides an innovative data-driven methodology for prescriptive maintenance, addressing key challenges in industrial operations and leading the way to more efficient, cost-effective, and reliable systems. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Denoising Diffusion Bridge Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16948  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are powerful generative models that map noise to data using stochastic processes. However, for many applications such as image editing, the model input comes from a distribution that is not random noise. As such, diffusion models must rely on cumbersome methods like guidance or projected sampling to incorporate this information in the generative process. In our work, we propose Denoising Diffusion Bridge Models (DDBMs), a natural alternative to this paradigm based on diffusion bridges, a family of processes that interpolate between two paired distributions given as endpoints. Our method learns the score of the diffusion bridge from data and maps from one endpoint distribution to the other by solving a (stochastic) differential equation based on the learned score. Our method naturally unifies several classes of generative models, such as score-based diffusion models and OT-Flow-Matching, allowing us to adapt existing design and architectural choices to our more general problem. Empirically, we apply DDBMs to challenging image datasets in both pixel and latent space. On standard image translation problems, DDBMs achieve significant improvement over baseline methods, and, when we reduce the problem to image generation by setting the source distribution to random noise, DDBMs achieve comparable FID scores to state-of-the-art methods despite being built for a more general task. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Leveraging Optimization for Adaptive Attacks on Image Watermarks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16952  
**Abstract:** Untrustworthy users can misuse image generators to synthesize high-quality deepfakes and engage in online spam or disinformation campaigns. Watermarking deters misuse by marking generated content with a hidden message, enabling its detection using a secret watermarking key. A core security property of watermarking is robustness, which states that an attacker can only evade detection by substantially degrading image quality. Assessing robustness requires designing an adaptive attack for the specific watermarking algorithm. A challenge when evaluating watermarking algorithms and their (adaptive) attacks is to determine whether an adaptive attack is optimal, i.e., it is the best possible attack. We solve this problem by defining an objective function and then approach adaptive attacks as an optimization problem. The core idea of our adaptive attacks is to replicate secret watermarking keys locally by creating surrogate keys that are differentiable and can be used to optimize the attack's parameters. We demonstrate for Stable Diffusion models that such an attacker can break all five surveyed watermarking methods at negligible degradation in image quality. These findings emphasize the need for more rigorous robustness testing against adaptive, learnable attackers. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Synthetic Data Generation and Deep Learning for the Topological Analysis  of 3D Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16968  
**Abstract:** This research uses deep learning to estimate the topology of manifolds represented by sparse, unordered point cloud scenes in 3D. A new labelled dataset was synthesised to train neural networks and evaluate their ability to estimate the genus of these manifolds. This data used random homeomorphic deformations to provoke the learning of visual topological features. We demonstrate that deep learning models could extract these features and discuss some advantages over existing topological data analysis tools that are based on persistent homology. Semantic segmentation was used to provide additional geometric information in conjunction with topological labels. Common point cloud multi-layer perceptron and transformer networks were both used to compare the viability of these methods. The experimental results of this pilot study support the hypothesis that, with the aid of sophisticated synthetic data generation, neural networks can perform segmentation-based topological data analysis. While our study focused on simulated data, the accuracy achieved suggests a potential for future applications using real data. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Benchmarking and In-depth Performance Study of Large Language Models on  Habana Gaudi Processors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16976  
**Abstract:** Transformer models have achieved remarkable success in various machine learning tasks but suffer from high computational complexity and resource requirements. The quadratic complexity of the self-attention mechanism further exacerbates these challenges when dealing with long sequences and large datasets. Specialized AI hardware accelerators, such as the Habana GAUDI architecture, offer a promising solution to tackle these issues. GAUDI features a Matrix Multiplication Engine (MME) and a cluster of fully programmable Tensor Processing Cores (TPC). This paper explores the untapped potential of using GAUDI processors to accelerate Transformer-based models, addressing key challenges in the process. Firstly, we provide a comprehensive performance comparison between the MME and TPC components, illuminating their relative strengths and weaknesses. Secondly, we explore strategies to optimize MME and TPC utilization, offering practical insights to enhance computational efficiency. Thirdly, we evaluate the performance of Transformers on GAUDI, particularly in handling long sequences and uncovering performance bottlenecks. Lastly, we evaluate the end-to-end performance of two Transformer-based large language models (LLM) on GAUDI. The contributions of this work encompass practical insights for practitioners and researchers alike. We delve into GAUDI's capabilities for Transformers through systematic profiling, analysis, and optimization exploration. Our study bridges a research gap and offers a roadmap for optimizing Transformer-based model training on the GAUDI architecture. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Consistency Models as a Rich and Efficient Policy Class for  Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16984  
**Abstract:** Score-based generative models like the diffusion model have been testified to be effective in modeling multi-modal data from image generation to reinforcement learning (RL). However, the inference process of diffusion model can be slow, which hinders its usage in RL with iterative sampling. We propose to apply the consistency model as an efficient yet expressive policy representation, namely consistency policy, with an actor-critic style algorithm for three typical RL settings: offline, offline-to-online and online. For offline RL, we demonstrate the expressiveness of generative models as policies from multi-modal data. For offline-to-online RL, the consistency policy is shown to be more computational efficient than diffusion policy, with a comparable performance. For online RL, the consistency policy demonstrates significant speedup and even higher average performances than the diffusion policy. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Scalable Multi-Temporal Remote Sensing Change Data Generation via  Simulating Stochastic Change Process  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17031  
**Abstract:** Understanding the temporal dynamics of Earth's surface is a mission of multi-temporal remote sensing image analysis, significantly promoted by deep vision models with its fuel -- labeled multi-temporal images. However, collecting, preprocessing, and annotating multi-temporal remote sensing images at scale is non-trivial since it is expensive and knowledge-intensive. In this paper, we present a scalable multi-temporal remote sensing change data generator via generative modeling, which is cheap and automatic, alleviating these problems. Our main idea is to simulate a stochastic change process over time. We consider the stochastic change process as a probabilistic semantic state transition, namely generative probabilistic change model (GPCM), which decouples the complex simulation problem into two more trackable sub-problems, \ie, change event simulation and semantic change synthesis. To solve these two problems, we present the change generator (Changen), a GAN-based GPCM, enabling controllable object change data generation, including customizable object property, and change event. The extensive experiments suggest that our Changen has superior generation capability, and the change detectors with Changen pre-training exhibit excellent transferability to real-world change datasets. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Beyond Co-occurrence: Multi-modal Session-based Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17037  
**Abstract:** Session-based recommendation is devoted to characterizing preferences of anonymous users based on short sessions. Existing methods mostly focus on mining limited item co-occurrence patterns exposed by item ID within sessions, while ignoring what attracts users to engage with certain items is rich multi-modal information displayed on pages. Generally, the multi-modal information can be classified into two categories: descriptive information (e.g., item images and description text) and numerical information (e.g., price). In this paper, we aim to improve session-based recommendation by modeling the above multi-modal information holistically. There are mainly three issues to reveal user intent from multi-modal information: (1) How to extract relevant semantics from heterogeneous descriptive information with different noise? (2) How to fuse these heterogeneous descriptive information to comprehensively infer user interests? (3) How to handle probabilistic influence of numerical information on user behaviors? To solve above issues, we propose a novel multi-modal session-based recommendation (MMSBR) that models both descriptive and numerical information under a unified framework. Specifically, a pseudo-modality contrastive learning is devised to enhance the representation learning of descriptive information. Afterwards, a hierarchical pivot transformer is presented to fuse heterogeneous descriptive information. Moreover, we represent numerical information with Gaussian distribution and design a Wasserstein self-attention to handle the probabilistic influence mode. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed MMSBR. Further analysis also proves that our MMSBR can alleviate the cold-start problem in SBR effectively. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** ReFlow-TTS: A Rectified Flow Model for High-fidelity Text-to-Speech  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17056  
**Abstract:** The diffusion models including Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) and score-based generative models have demonstrated excellent performance in speech synthesis tasks. However, its effectiveness comes at the cost of numerous sampling steps, resulting in prolonged sampling time required to synthesize high-quality speech. This drawback hinders its practical applicability in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we introduce ReFlow-TTS, a novel rectified flow based method for speech synthesis with high-fidelity. Specifically, our ReFlow-TTS is simply an Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE) model that transports Gaussian distribution to the ground-truth Mel-spectrogram distribution by straight line paths as much as possible. Furthermore, our proposed approach enables high-quality speech synthesis with a single sampling step and eliminates the need for training a teacher model. Our experiments on LJSpeech Dataset show that our ReFlow-TTS method achieves the best performance compared with other diffusion based models. And the ReFlow-TTS with one step sampling achieves competitive performance compared with existing one-step TTS models. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** GSDC Transformer: An Efficient and Effective Cue Fusion for Monocular  Multi-Frame Depth Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17059  
**Abstract:** Depth estimation provides an alternative approach for perceiving 3D information in autonomous driving. Monocular depth estimation, whether with single-frame or multi-frame inputs, has achieved significant success by learning various types of cues and specializing in either static or dynamic scenes. Recently, these cues fusion becomes an attractive topic, aiming to enable the combined cues to perform well in both types of scenes. However, adaptive cue fusion relies on attention mechanisms, where the quadratic complexity limits the granularity of cue representation. Additionally, explicit cue fusion depends on precise segmentation, which imposes a heavy burden on mask prediction. To address these issues, we propose the GSDC Transformer, an efficient and effective component for cue fusion in monocular multi-frame depth estimation. We utilize deformable attention to learn cue relationships at a fine scale, while sparse attention reduces computational requirements when granularity increases. To compensate for the precision drop in dynamic scenes, we represent scene attributes in the form of super tokens without relying on precise shapes. Within each super token attributed to dynamic scenes, we gather its relevant cues and learn local dense relationships to enhance cue fusion. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the KITTI dataset with efficient fusion speed. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** SCALE: Synergized Collaboration of Asymmetric Language Translation  Engines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17061  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce SCALE, a collaborative framework that connects compact Specialized Translation Models (STMs) and general-purpose Large Language Models (LLMs) as one unified translation engine. By introducing translation from STM into the triplet in-context demonstrations, SCALE unlocks refinement and pivoting ability of LLM, thus mitigating language bias of LLM and parallel data bias of STM, enhancing LLM speciality without sacrificing generality, and facilitating continual learning without expensive LLM fine-tuning. Our comprehensive experiments show that SCALE significantly outperforms both few-shot LLMs (GPT-4) and specialized models (NLLB) in challenging low-resource settings. Moreover, in Xhosa to English translation, SCALE experiences consistent improvement by a 4 BLEURT score without tuning LLM and surpasses few-shot GPT-4 by 2.5 COMET score and 3.8 BLEURT score when equipped with a compact model consisting of merely 600M parameters. SCALE could also effectively exploit the existing language bias of LLMs by using an English-centric STM as a pivot for translation between any language pairs, outperforming few-shot GPT-4 by an average of 6 COMET points across eight translation directions. Furthermore we provide an in-depth analysis of SCALE's robustness, translation characteristics, and latency costs, providing solid foundation for future studies exploring the potential synergy between LLMs and more specialized, task-specific models. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** DeeDiff: Dynamic Uncertainty-Aware Early Exiting for Accelerating  Diffusion Model Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17074  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models achieve great success in generating diverse and high-fidelity images. The performance improvements come with low generation speed per image, which hinders the application diffusion models in real-time scenarios. While some certain predictions benefit from the full computation of the model in each sample iteration, not every iteration requires the same amount of computation, potentially leading to computation waste. In this work, we propose DeeDiff, an early exiting framework that adaptively allocates computation resources in each sampling step to improve the generation efficiency of diffusion models. Specifically, we introduce a timestep-aware uncertainty estimation module (UEM) for diffusion models which is attached to each intermediate layer to estimate the prediction uncertainty of each layer. The uncertainty is regarded as the signal to decide if the inference terminates. Moreover, we propose uncertainty-aware layer-wise loss to fill the performance gap between full models and early-exited models. With such loss strategy, our model is able to obtain comparable results as full-layer models. Extensive experiments of class-conditional, unconditional, and text-guided generation on several datasets show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance and efficiency trade-off compared with existing early exiting methods on diffusion models. More importantly, our method even brings extra benefits to baseline models and obtains better performance on CIFAR-10 and Celeb-A datasets. Full code and model are released for reproduction. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Sheaf Hypergraph Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17116  
**Abstract:** Higher-order relations are widespread in nature, with numerous phenomena involving complex interactions that extend beyond simple pairwise connections. As a result, advancements in higher-order processing can accelerate the growth of various fields requiring structured data. Current approaches typically represent these interactions using hypergraphs. We enhance this representation by introducing cellular sheaves for hypergraphs, a mathematical construction that adds extra structure to the conventional hypergraph while maintaining their local, higherorder connectivity. Drawing inspiration from existing Laplacians in the literature, we develop two unique formulations of sheaf hypergraph Laplacians: linear and non-linear. Our theoretical analysis demonstrates that incorporating sheaves into the hypergraph Laplacian provides a more expressive inductive bias than standard hypergraph diffusion, creating a powerful instrument for effectively modelling complex data structures. We employ these sheaf hypergraph Laplacians to design two categories of models: Sheaf Hypergraph Neural Networks and Sheaf Hypergraph Convolutional Networks. These models generalize classical Hypergraph Networks often found in the literature. Through extensive experimentation, we show that this generalization significantly improves performance, achieving top results on multiple benchmark datasets for hypergraph node classification. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Benchmarking the Abilities of Large Language Models for RDF Knowledge  Graph Creation and Comprehension: How Well Do LLMs Speak Turtle?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17122  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) are advancing at a rapid pace, with significant improvements at natural language processing and coding tasks. Yet, their ability to work with formal languages representing data, specifically within the realm of knowledge graph engineering, remains under-investigated. To evaluate the proficiency of various LLMs, we created a set of five tasks that probe their ability to parse, understand, analyze, and create knowledge graphs serialized in Turtle syntax. These tasks, each embodying distinct degrees of complexity and being able to scale with the size of the problem, have been integrated into our automated evaluation system, the LLM-KG-Bench. The evaluation encompassed four commercially available LLMs - GPT-3.5, GPT-4, Claude 1.3, and Claude 2.0, as well as two freely accessible offline models, GPT4All Vicuna and GPT4All Falcon 13B. This analysis offers an in-depth understanding of the strengths and shortcomings of LLMs in relation to their application within RDF knowledge graph engineering workflows utilizing Turtle representation. While our findings show that the latest commercial models outperform their forerunners in terms of proficiency with the Turtle language, they also reveal an apparent weakness. These models fall short when it comes to adhering strictly to the output formatting constraints, a crucial requirement in this context. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Reconstruction of Patient-Specific Confounders in AI-based Radiologic  Image Interpretation using Generative Pretraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17123  
**Abstract:** Detecting misleading patterns in automated diagnostic assistance systems, such as those powered by Artificial Intelligence, is critical to ensuring their reliability, particularly in healthcare. Current techniques for evaluating deep learning models cannot visualize confounding factors at a diagnostic level. Here, we propose a self-conditioned diffusion model termed DiffChest and train it on a dataset of 515,704 chest radiographs from 194,956 patients from multiple healthcare centers in the United States and Europe. DiffChest explains classifications on a patient-specific level and visualizes the confounding factors that may mislead the model. We found high inter-reader agreement when evaluating DiffChest's capability to identify treatment-related confounders, with Fleiss' Kappa values of 0.8 or higher across most imaging findings. Confounders were accurately captured with 11.1% to 100% prevalence rates. Furthermore, our pretraining process optimized the model to capture the most relevant information from the input radiographs. DiffChest achieved excellent diagnostic accuracy when diagnosing 11 chest conditions, such as pleural effusion and cardiac insufficiency, and at least sufficient diagnostic accuracy for the remaining conditions. Our findings highlight the potential of pretraining based on diffusion models in medical image classification, specifically in providing insights into confounding factors and model robustness. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** HAvatar: High-fidelity Head Avatar via Facial Model Conditioned Neural  Radiance Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17128  
**Abstract:** The problem of modeling an animatable 3D human head avatar under light-weight setups is of significant importance but has not been well solved. Existing 3D representations either perform well in the realism of portrait images synthesis or the accuracy of expression control, but not both. To address the problem, we introduce a novel hybrid explicit-implicit 3D representation, Facial Model Conditioned Neural Radiance Field, which integrates the expressiveness of NeRF and the prior information from the parametric template. At the core of our representation, a synthetic-renderings-based condition method is proposed to fuse the prior information from the parametric model into the implicit field without constraining its topological flexibility. Besides, based on the hybrid representation, we properly overcome the inconsistent shape issue presented in existing methods and improve the animation stability. Moreover, by adopting an overall GAN-based architecture using an image-to-image translation network, we achieve high-resolution, realistic and view-consistent synthesis of dynamic head appearance. Experiments demonstrate that our method can achieve state-of-the-art performance for 3D head avatar animation compared with previous methods. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Advances in Kidney Biopsy Structural Assessment through Dense Instance  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17166  
**Abstract:** The kidney biopsy is the gold standard for the diagnosis of kidney diseases. Lesion scores made by expert renal pathologists are semi-quantitative and suffer from high inter-observer variability. Automatically obtaining statistics per segmented anatomical object, therefore, can bring significant benefits in reducing labor and this inter-observer variability. Instance segmentation for a biopsy, however, has been a challenging problem due to (a) the on average large number (around 300 to 1000) of densely touching anatomical structures, (b) with multiple classes (at least 3) and (c) in different sizes and shapes. The currently used instance segmentation models cannot simultaneously deal with these challenges in an efficient yet generic manner. In this paper, we propose the first anchor-free instance segmentation model that combines diffusion models, transformer modules, and RCNNs (regional convolution neural networks). Our model is trained on just one NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090 GPU, but can efficiently recognize more than 500 objects with 3 common anatomical object classes in renal biopsies, i.e., glomeruli, tubuli, and arteries. Our data set consisted of 303 patches extracted from 148 Jones' silver-stained renal whole slide images (WSIs), where 249 patches were used for training and 54 patches for evaluation. In addition, without adjustment or retraining, the model can directly transfer its domain to generate decent instance segmentation results from PAS-stained WSIs. Importantly, it outperforms other baseline models and reaches an AP 51.7% in detection as the new state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** DyVal: Graph-informed Dynamic Evaluation of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17167  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable performance in various evaluation benchmarks. However, concerns about their performance are raised on potential data contamination in their considerable volume of training corpus. Moreover, the static nature and fixed complexity of current benchmarks may inadequately gauge the advancing capabilities of LLMs. In this paper, we introduce DyVal, a novel, general, and flexible evaluation protocol for dynamic evaluation of LLMs. Based on our proposed dynamic evaluation framework, we build graph-informed DyVal by leveraging the structural advantage of directed acyclic graphs to dynamically generate evaluation samples with controllable complexities. DyVal generates challenging evaluation sets on reasoning tasks including mathematics, logical reasoning, and algorithm problems. We evaluate various LLMs ranging from Flan-T5-large to ChatGPT and GPT4. Experiments demonstrate that LLMs perform worse in DyVal-generated evaluation samples with different complexities, emphasizing the significance of dynamic evaluation. We also analyze the failure cases and results of different prompting methods. Moreover, DyVal-generated samples are not only evaluation sets, but also helpful data for fine-tuning to improve the performance of LLMs on existing benchmarks. We hope that DyVal can shed light on the future evaluation research of LLMs. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** An evaluation of GPT models for phenotype concept recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17169  
**Abstract:** Objective: Clinical deep phenotyping plays a critical role in both the diagnosis of patients with rare disorders as well as in building care coordination plans. The process relies on modelling and curating patient profiles using ontology concepts, usually from the Human Phenotype Ontology. Machine learning methods have been widely adopted to support this phenotype concept recognition task. With the significant shift in the use of large language models (LLMs) for most NLP tasks, herewithin, we examine the performance of the latest Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) models underpinning ChatGPT in clinical deep phenotyping. Materials and Methods: The experimental setup of the study included seven prompts of various levels of specificity, two GPT models (gpt-3.5 and gpt-4.0) and an established gold standard for phenotype recognition. Results: Our results show that, currently, these models have not yet achieved state of the art performance. The best run, using few-shots learning, achieved 0.41 F1 score, compared to a 0.62 F1 score achieved by the current best in class tool. Conclusion: The non-deterministic nature of the outcomes and the lack of concordance between different runs using the same prompt and input makes the use of these LLMs in clinical settings problematic. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** ResBit: Residual Bit Vector for Categorical Values  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17196  
**Abstract:** The one-hot vector has long been widely used in machine learning as a simple and generic method for representing discrete data. However, this method increases the number of dimensions linearly with the categorical data to be represented, which is problematic from the viewpoint of spatial computational complexity in deep learning, which requires a large amount of data. Recently, Analog Bits, a method for representing discrete data as a sequence of bits, was proposed on the basis of the high expressiveness of diffusion models. However, since the number of category types to be represented in a generation task is not necessarily at a power of two, there is a discrepancy between the range that Analog Bits can represent and the range represented as category data. If such a value is generated, the problem is that the original category value cannot be restored. To address this issue, we propose Residual Bit Vector (ResBit), which is a hierarchical bit representation. Although it is a general-purpose representation method, in this paper, we treat it as numerical data and show that it can be used as an extension of Analog Bits using Table Residual Bit Diffusion (TRBD), which is incorporated into TabDDPM, a tabular data generation method. We experimentally confirmed that TRBD can generate diverse and high-quality data from small-scale table data to table data containing diverse category values faster than TabDDPM. Furthermore, we show that ResBit can also serve as an alternative to the one-hot vector by utilizing ResBit for conditioning in GANs and as a label expression in image classification. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Memory Gym: Partially Observable Challenges to Memory-Based Agents in  Endless Episodes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17207  
**Abstract:** Memory Gym introduces a unique benchmark designed to test Deep Reinforcement Learning agents, specifically comparing Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) against Transformer-XL (TrXL), on their ability to memorize long sequences, withstand noise, and generalize. It features partially observable 2D environments with discrete controls, namely Mortar Mayhem, Mystery Path, and Searing Spotlights. These originally finite environments are extrapolated to novel endless tasks that act as an automatic curriculum, drawing inspiration from the car game ``I packed my bag". These endless tasks are not only beneficial for evaluating efficiency but also intriguingly valuable for assessing the effectiveness of approaches in memory-based agents. Given the scarcity of publicly available memory baselines, we contribute an implementation driven by TrXL and Proximal Policy Optimization. This implementation leverages TrXL as episodic memory using a sliding window approach. In our experiments on the finite environments, TrXL demonstrates superior sample efficiency in Mystery Path and outperforms in Mortar Mayhem. However, GRU is more efficient on Searing Spotlights. Most notably, in all endless tasks, GRU makes a remarkable resurgence, consistently outperforming TrXL by significant margins. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Robots That Can See: Leveraging Human Pose for Trajectory Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17209  
**Abstract:** Anticipating the motion of all humans in dynamic environments such as homes and offices is critical to enable safe and effective robot navigation. Such spaces remain challenging as humans do not follow strict rules of motion and there are often multiple occluded entry points such as corners and doors that create opportunities for sudden encounters. In this work, we present a Transformer based architecture to predict human future trajectories in human-centric environments from input features including human positions, head orientations, and 3D skeletal keypoints from onboard in-the-wild sensory information. The resulting model captures the inherent uncertainty for future human trajectory prediction and achieves state-of-the-art performance on common prediction benchmarks and a human tracking dataset captured from a mobile robot adapted for the prediction task. Furthermore, we identify new agents with limited historical data as a major contributor to error and demonstrate the complementary nature of 3D skeletal poses in reducing prediction error in such challenging scenarios. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** When Epipolar Constraint Meets Non-local Operators in Multi-View Stereo  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17218  
**Abstract:** Learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) method heavily relies on feature matching, which requires distinctive and descriptive representations. An effective solution is to apply non-local feature aggregation, e.g., Transformer. Albeit useful, these techniques introduce heavy computation overheads for MVS. Each pixel densely attends to the whole image. In contrast, we propose to constrain non-local feature augmentation within a pair of lines: each point only attends the corresponding pair of epipolar lines. Our idea takes inspiration from the classic epipolar geometry, which shows that one point with different depth hypotheses will be projected to the epipolar line on the other view. This constraint reduces the 2D search space into the epipolar line in stereo matching. Similarly, this suggests that the matching of MVS is to distinguish a series of points lying on the same line. Inspired by this point-to-line search, we devise a line-to-point non-local augmentation strategy. We first devise an optimized searching algorithm to split the 2D feature maps into epipolar line pairs. Then, an Epipolar Transformer (ET) performs non-local feature augmentation among epipolar line pairs. We incorporate the ET into a learning-based MVS baseline, named ET-MVSNet. ET-MVSNet achieves state-of-the-art reconstruction performance on both the DTU and Tanks-and-Temples benchmark with high efficiency. Code is available at https://github.com/TQTQliu/ET-MVSNet. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Training and inference of large language models using 8-bit floating  point  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17224  
**Abstract:** FP8 formats are gaining popularity to boost the computational efficiency for training and inference of large deep learning models. Their main challenge is that a careful choice of scaling is needed to prevent degradation due to the reduced dynamic range compared to higher-precision formats. Although there exists ample literature about selecting such scalings for INT formats, this critical aspect has yet to be addressed for FP8. This paper presents a methodology to select the scalings for FP8 linear layers, based on dynamically updating per-tensor scales for the weights, gradients and activations. We apply this methodology to train and validate large language models of the type of GPT and Llama 2 using FP8, for model sizes ranging from 111M to 70B. To facilitate the understanding of the FP8 dynamics, our results are accompanied by plots of the per-tensor scale distribution for weights, activations and gradients during both training and inference. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** LLM-Deliberation: Evaluating LLMs with Interactive Multi-Agent  Negotiation Games  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17234  
**Abstract:** There is a growing interest in using Large Language Models (LLMs) as agents to tackle real-world tasks that may require assessing complex situations. Yet, we have a limited understanding of LLMs' reasoning and decision-making capabilities, partly stemming from a lack of dedicated evaluation benchmarks. As negotiating and compromising are key aspects of our everyday communication and collaboration, we propose using scorable negotiation games as a new evaluation framework for LLMs. We create a testbed of diverse text-based, multi-agent, multi-issue, semantically rich negotiation games, with easily tunable difficulty. To solve the challenge, agents need to have strong arithmetic, inference, exploration, and planning capabilities, while seamlessly integrating them. Via a systematic zero-shot Chain-of-Thought prompting (CoT), we show that agents can negotiate and consistently reach successful deals. We quantify the performance with multiple metrics and observe a large gap between GPT-4 and earlier models. Importantly, we test the generalization to new games and setups. Finally, we show that these games can help evaluate other critical aspects, such as the interaction dynamics between agents in the presence of greedy and adversarial players. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Batch Calibration: Rethinking Calibration for In-Context Learning and  Prompt Engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17249  
**Abstract:** Prompting and in-context learning (ICL) have become efficient learning paradigms for large language models (LLMs). However, LLMs suffer from prompt brittleness and various bias factors in the prompt, including but not limited to the formatting, the choice verbalizers, and the ICL examples. To address this problem that results in unexpected performance degradation, calibration methods have been developed to mitigate the effects of these biases while recovering LLM performance. In this work, we first conduct a systematic analysis of the existing calibration methods, where we both provide a unified view and reveal the failure cases. Inspired by these analyses, we propose Batch Calibration (BC), a simple yet intuitive method that controls the contextual bias from the batched input, unifies various prior approaches, and effectively addresses the aforementioned issues. BC is zero-shot, inference-only, and incurs negligible additional costs. In the few-shot setup, we further extend BC to allow it to learn the contextual bias from labeled data. We validate the effectiveness of BC with PaLM 2-(S, M, L) and CLIP models and demonstrate state-of-the-art performance over previous calibration baselines across more than 10 natural language understanding and image classification tasks. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Consistent123: One Image to Highly Consistent 3D Asset Using Case-Aware  Diffusion Priors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17261  
**Abstract:** Reconstructing 3D objects from a single image guided by pretrained diffusion models has demonstrated promising outcomes. However, due to utilizing the case-agnostic rigid strategy, their generalization ability to arbitrary cases and the 3D consistency of reconstruction are still poor. In this work, we propose Consistent123, a case-aware two-stage method for highly consistent 3D asset reconstruction from one image with both 2D and 3D diffusion priors. In the first stage, Consistent123 utilizes only 3D structural priors for sufficient geometry exploitation, with a CLIP-based case-aware adaptive detection mechanism embedded within this process. In the second stage, 2D texture priors are introduced and progressively take on a dominant guiding role, delicately sculpting the details of the 3D model. Consistent123 aligns more closely with the evolving trends in guidance requirements, adaptively providing adequate 3D geometric initialization and suitable 2D texture refinement for different objects. Consistent123 can obtain highly 3D-consistent reconstruction and exhibits strong generalization ability across various objects. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art image-to-3D methods. See https://Consistent123.github.io for a more comprehensive exploration of our generated 3D assets. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Enhancing Large Language Models in Coding Through Multi-Perspective  Self-Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17272  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable ability in textual generation. However, in complex reasoning tasks such as code generation, generating the correct answer in a single attempt remains a formidable challenge for LLMs. Previous research has explored solutions by aggregating multiple outputs, leveraging the consistency among them. However, none of them have comprehensively captured this consistency from different perspectives. In this paper, we propose the Multi-Perspective Self-Consistency (MPSC) framework, a novel decoding strategy for LLM that incorporates both inter-consistency across outputs from multiple perspectives and intra-consistency within a single perspective. Specifically, we ask LLMs to sample multiple diverse outputs from various perspectives for a given query and then construct a multipartite graph based on them. With two predefined measures of consistency, we embed both inter- and intra-consistency information into the graph. The optimal choice is then determined based on consistency analysis in the graph. We conduct comprehensive evaluation on the code generation task by introducing solution, specification and test case as three perspectives. We leverage a code interpreter to quantitatively measure the inter-consistency and propose several intra-consistency measure functions. Our MPSC framework significantly boosts the performance on various popular benchmarks, including HumanEval (+17.60%), HumanEval Plus (+17.61%), MBPP (+6.50%) and CodeContests (+11.82%) in Pass@1, when compared to original outputs generated from ChatGPT, and even surpassing GPT-4. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Suspicion-Agent: Playing Imperfect Information Games with Theory of Mind  Aware GPT4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17277  
**Abstract:** Unlike perfect information games, where all elements are known to every player, imperfect information games emulate the real-world complexities of decision-making under uncertain or incomplete information. GPT-4, the recent breakthrough in large language models (LLMs) trained on massive passive data, is notable for its knowledge retrieval and reasoning abilities. This paper delves into the applicability of GPT-4's learned knowledge for imperfect information games. To achieve this, we introduce \textbf{Suspicion-Agent}, an innovative agent that leverages GPT-4's capabilities for performing in imperfect information games. With proper prompt engineering to achieve different functions, Suspicion-Agent based on GPT-4 demonstrates remarkable adaptability across a range of imperfect information card games. Importantly, GPT-4 displays a strong high-order theory of mind (ToM) capacity, meaning it can understand others and intentionally impact others' behavior. Leveraging this, we design a planning strategy that enables GPT-4 to competently play against different opponents, adapting its gameplay style as needed, while requiring only the game rules and descriptions of observations as input. In the experiments, we qualitatively showcase the capabilities of Suspicion-Agent across three different imperfect information games and then quantitatively evaluate it in Leduc Hold'em. The results show that Suspicion-Agent can potentially outperform traditional algorithms designed for imperfect information games, without any specialized training or examples. In order to encourage and foster deeper insights within the community, we make our game-related data publicly available. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Information Flow in Self-Supervised Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17281  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we provide a comprehensive toolbox for understanding and enhancing self-supervised learning (SSL) methods through the lens of matrix information theory. Specifically, by leveraging the principles of matrix mutual information and joint entropy, we offer a unified analysis for both contrastive and feature decorrelation based methods. Furthermore, we propose the matrix variational masked auto-encoder (M-MAE) method, grounded in matrix information theory, as an enhancement to masked image modeling. The empirical evaluations underscore the effectiveness of M-MAE compared with the state-of-the-art methods, including a 3.9% improvement in linear probing ViT-Base, and a 1% improvement in fine-tuning ViT-Large, both on ImageNet. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Navigating the Design Space of Equivariant Diffusion-Based Generative  Models for De Novo 3D Molecule Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17296  
**Abstract:** Deep generative diffusion models are a promising avenue for de novo 3D molecular design in material science and drug discovery. However, their utility is still constrained by suboptimal performance with large molecular structures and limited training data. Addressing this gap, we explore the design space of E(3) equivariant diffusion models, focusing on previously blank spots. Our extensive comparative analysis evaluates the interplay between continuous and discrete state spaces. Out of this investigation, we introduce the EQGAT-diff model, which consistently surpasses the performance of established models on the QM9 and GEOM-Drugs datasets by a large margin. Distinctively, EQGAT-diff takes continuous atomic positions while chemical elements and bond types are categorical and employ a time-dependent loss weighting that significantly increases training convergence and the quality of generated samples. To further strengthen the applicability of diffusion models to limited training data, we examine the transferability of EQGAT-diff trained on the large PubChem3D dataset with implicit hydrogens to target distributions with explicit hydrogens. Fine-tuning EQGAT-diff for a couple of iterations further pushes state-of-the-art performance across datasets. We envision that our findings will find applications in structure-based drug design, where the accuracy of generative models for small datasets of complex molecules is critical. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Scaling Experiments in Self-Supervised Cross-Table Representation  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17339  
**Abstract:** To analyze the scaling potential of deep tabular representation learning models, we introduce a novel Transformer-based architecture specifically tailored to tabular data and cross-table representation learning by utilizing table-specific tokenizers and a shared Transformer backbone. Our training approach encompasses both single-table and cross-table models, trained via missing value imputation through a self-supervised masked cell recovery objective. To understand the scaling behavior of our method, we train models of varying sizes, ranging from approximately $10^4$ to $10^7$ parameters. These models are trained on a carefully curated pretraining dataset, consisting of 135M training tokens sourced from 76 diverse datasets. We assess the scaling of our architecture in both single-table and cross-table pretraining setups by evaluating the pretrained models using linear probing on a curated set of benchmark datasets and comparing the results with conventional baselines. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Improving Audio Captioning Models with Fine-grained Audio Features, Text  Embedding Supervision, and LLM Mix-up Augmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17352  
**Abstract:** Automated audio captioning (AAC) aims to generate informative descriptions for various sounds from nature and/or human activities. In recent years, AAC has quickly attracted research interest, with state-of-the-art systems now relying on a sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) backbone powered by strong models such as Transformers. Following the macro-trend of applied machine learning research, in this work, we strive to improve the performance of seq2seq AAC models by extensively leveraging pretrained models and large language models (LLMs). Specifically, we utilize BEATs to extract fine-grained audio features. Then, we employ Instructor LLM to fetch text embeddings of captions, and infuse their language-modality knowledge into BEATs audio features via an auxiliary InfoNCE loss function. Moreover, we propose a novel data augmentation method that uses ChatGPT to produce caption mix-ups (i.e., grammatical and compact combinations of two captions) which, together with the corresponding audio mixtures, increase not only the amount but also the complexity and diversity of training data. During inference, we propose to employ nucleus sampling and a hybrid reranking algorithm, which has not been explored in AAC research. Combining our efforts, our model achieves a new state-of-the-art 32.6 SPIDEr-FL score on the Clotho evaluation split, and wins the 2023 DCASE AAC challenge. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Forward Flow for Novel View Synthesis of Dynamic Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17390  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a neural radiance field (NeRF) approach for novel view synthesis of dynamic scenes using forward warping. Existing methods often adopt a static NeRF to represent the canonical space, and render dynamic images at other time steps by mapping the sampled 3D points back to the canonical space with the learned backward flow field. However, this backward flow field is non-smooth and discontinuous, which is difficult to be fitted by commonly used smooth motion models. To address this problem, we propose to estimate the forward flow field and directly warp the canonical radiance field to other time steps. Such forward flow field is smooth and continuous within the object region, which benefits the motion model learning. To achieve this goal, we represent the canonical radiance field with voxel grids to enable efficient forward warping, and propose a differentiable warping process, including an average splatting operation and an inpaint network, to resolve the many-to-one and one-to-many mapping issues. Thorough experiments show that our method outperforms existing methods in both novel view rendering and motion modeling, demonstrating the effectiveness of our forward flow motion modeling. Project page: https://npucvr.github.io/ForwardFlowDNeRF 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Analytic and Gevrey class regularity for parametric semilinear  reaction-diffusion problems and applications in uncertainty quantification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17397  
**Abstract:** We investigate a class of parametric elliptic semilinear partial differential equations of second order with homogeneous essential boundary conditions, where the coefficients and the right-hand side (and hence the solution) may depend on a parameter. This model can be seen as a reaction-diffusion problem with a polynomial nonlinearity in the reaction term. The efficiency of various numerical approximations across the entire parameter space is closely related to the regularity of the solution with respect to the parameter. We show that if the coefficients and the right-hand side are analytic or Gevrey class regular with respect to the parameter, the same type of parametric regularity is valid for the solution. The key ingredient of the proof is the combination of the alternative-to-factorial technique from our previous work [1] with a novel argument for the treatment of the power-type nonlinearity in the reaction term. As an application of this abstract result, we obtain rigorous convergence estimates for numerical integration of semilinear reaction-diffusion problems with random coefficients using Gaussian and Quasi-Monte Carlo quadrature. Our theoretical findings are confirmed in numerical experiments. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** IFAST: Weakly Supervised Interpretable Face Anti-spoofing from  Single-shot Binocular NIR Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17399  
**Abstract:** Single-shot face anti-spoofing (FAS) is a key technique for securing face recognition systems, and it requires only static images as input. However, single-shot FAS remains a challenging and under-explored problem due to two main reasons: 1) on the data side, learning FAS from RGB images is largely context-dependent, and single-shot images without additional annotations contain limited semantic information. 2) on the model side, existing single-shot FAS models are infeasible to provide proper evidence for their decisions, and FAS methods based on depth estimation require expensive per-pixel annotations. To address these issues, a large binocular NIR image dataset (BNI-FAS) is constructed and published, which contains more than 300,000 real face and plane attack images, and an Interpretable FAS Transformer (IFAST) is proposed that requires only weak supervision to produce interpretable predictions. Our IFAST can produce pixel-wise disparity maps by the proposed disparity estimation Transformer with Dynamic Matching Attention (DMA) block. Besides, a well-designed confidence map generator is adopted to cooperate with the proposed dual-teacher distillation module to obtain the final discriminant results. The comprehensive experiments show that our IFAST can achieve state-of-the-art results on BNI-FAS, proving the effectiveness of the single-shot FAS based on binocular NIR images. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Directly Fine-Tuning Diffusion Models on Differentiable Rewards  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17400  
**Abstract:** We present Direct Reward Fine-Tuning (DRaFT), a simple and effective method for fine-tuning diffusion models to maximize differentiable reward functions, such as scores from human preference models. We first show that it is possible to backpropagate the reward function gradient through the full sampling procedure, and that doing so achieves strong performance on a variety of rewards, outperforming reinforcement learning-based approaches. We then propose more efficient variants of DRaFT: DRaFT-K, which truncates backpropagation to only the last K steps of sampling, and DRaFT-LV, which obtains lower-variance gradient estimates for the case when K=1. We show that our methods work well for a variety of reward functions and can be used to substantially improve the aesthetic quality of images generated by Stable Diffusion 1.4. Finally, we draw connections between our approach and prior work, providing a unifying perspective on the design space of gradient-based fine-tuning algorithms. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Can Sensitive Information Be Deleted From LLMs? Objectives for Defending  Against Extraction Attacks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17410  
**Abstract:** Pretrained language models sometimes possess knowledge that we do not wish them to, including memorized personal information and knowledge that could be used to harm people. They can also output toxic or harmful text. To mitigate these safety and informational issues, we propose an attack-and-defense framework for studying the task of deleting sensitive information directly from model weights. We study direct edits to model weights because (1) this approach should guarantee that particular deleted information is never extracted by future prompt attacks, and (2) it should protect against whitebox attacks, which is necessary for making claims about safety/privacy in a setting where publicly available model weights could be used to elicit sensitive information. Our threat model assumes that an attack succeeds if the answer to a sensitive question is located among a set of B generated candidates, based on scenarios where the information would be insecure if the answer is among B candidates. Experimentally, we show that even state-of-the-art model editing methods such as ROME struggle to truly delete factual information from models like GPT-J, as our whitebox and blackbox attacks can recover "deleted" information from an edited model 38% of the time. These attacks leverage two key observations: (1) that traces of deleted information can be found in intermediate model hidden states, and (2) that applying an editing method for one question may not delete information across rephrased versions of the question. Finally, we provide new defense methods that protect against some extraction attacks, but we do not find a single universally effective defense method. Our results suggest that truly deleting sensitive information is a tractable but difficult problem, since even relatively low attack success rates have potentially severe societal implications for real-world deployment of language models. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** The Dawn of LMMs: Preliminary Explorations with GPT-4V(ision)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17421  
**Abstract:** Large multimodal models (LMMs) extend large language models (LLMs) with multi-sensory skills, such as visual understanding, to achieve stronger generic intelligence. In this paper, we analyze the latest model, GPT-4V(ision), to deepen the understanding of LMMs. The analysis focuses on the intriguing tasks that GPT-4V can perform, containing test samples to probe the quality and genericity of GPT-4V's capabilities, its supported inputs and working modes, and the effective ways to prompt the model. In our approach to exploring GPT-4V, we curate and organize a collection of carefully designed qualitative samples spanning a variety of domains and tasks. Observations from these samples demonstrate that GPT-4V's unprecedented ability in processing arbitrarily interleaved multimodal inputs and the genericity of its capabilities together make GPT-4V a powerful multimodal generalist system. Furthermore, GPT-4V's unique capability of understanding visual markers drawn on input images can give rise to new human-computer interaction methods such as visual referring prompting. We conclude the report with in-depth discussions on the emerging application scenarios and the future research directions for GPT-4V-based systems. We hope that this preliminary exploration will inspire future research on the next-generation multimodal task formulation, new ways to exploit and enhance LMMs to solve real-world problems, and gaining better understanding of multimodal foundation models. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** CRAFT: Customizing LLMs by Creating and Retrieving from Specialized  Toolsets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17428  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) are often augmented with tools to solve complex tasks. By generating code snippets and executing them through task-specific Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), they can offload certain functions to dedicated external modules, such as image encoding and performing calculations. However, most existing approaches to augment LLMs with tools are constrained by general-purpose APIs and lack the flexibility for tailoring them to specific tasks. In this work, we present CRAFT, a general tool creation and retrieval framework for LLMs. It creates toolsets specifically curated for the tasks and equips LLMs with a component that retrieves tools from these sets to enhance their capability to solve complex tasks. For each task, we collect specific code solutions by prompting GPT-4 to solve the training examples. Following a validation step ensuring the correctness, these solutions are abstracted into code snippets to enhance reusability, and deduplicated for higher quality. At inference time, the language model retrieves snippets from the toolsets and then executes them or generates the output conditioning on the retrieved snippets. Our method is designed to be flexible and offers a plug-and-play approach to adapt off-the-shelf LLMs to unseen domains and modalities, without any finetuning. Experiments on vision-language, tabular processing, and mathematical reasoning tasks show that our approach achieves substantial improvements compared to strong baselines. In addition, our in-depth analysis reveals that: (1) consistent performance improvement can be achieved by scaling up the number of tools and the capability of the backbone models; (2) each component of our approach contributes to the performance gains; (3) the created tools are well-structured and reliable with low complexity and atomicity. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/lifan-yuan/CRAFT}. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** LLM-grounded Video Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17444  
**Abstract:** Text-conditioned diffusion models have emerged as a promising tool for neural video generation. However, current models still struggle with intricate spatiotemporal prompts and often generate restricted or incorrect motion (e.g., even lacking the ability to be prompted for objects moving from left to right). To address these limitations, we introduce LLM-grounded Video Diffusion (LVD). Instead of directly generating videos from the text inputs, LVD first leverages a large language model (LLM) to generate dynamic scene layouts based on the text inputs and subsequently uses the generated layouts to guide a diffusion model for video generation. We show that LLMs are able to understand complex spatiotemporal dynamics from text alone and generate layouts that align closely with both the prompts and the object motion patterns typically observed in the real world. We then propose to guide video diffusion models with these layouts by adjusting the attention maps. Our approach is training-free and can be integrated into any video diffusion model that admits classifier guidance. Our results demonstrate that LVD significantly outperforms its base video diffusion model and several strong baseline methods in faithfully generating videos with the desired attributes and motion patterns. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** A Large Language Model Approach to Educational Survey Feedback Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17447  
**Abstract:** This paper assesses the potential for the large language models (LLMs) GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 to aid in deriving insight from education feedback surveys. Exploration of LLM use cases in education has focused on teaching and learning, with less exploration of capabilities in education feedback analysis. Survey analysis in education involves goals such as finding gaps in curricula or evaluating teachers, often requiring time-consuming manual processing of textual responses. LLMs have the potential to provide a flexible means of achieving these goals without specialized machine learning models or fine-tuning. We demonstrate a versatile approach to such goals by treating them as sequences of natural language processing (NLP) tasks including classification (multi-label, multi-class, and binary), extraction, thematic analysis, and sentiment analysis, each performed by LLM. We apply these workflows to a real-world dataset of 2500 end-of-course survey comments from biomedical science courses, and evaluate a zero-shot approach (i.e., requiring no examples or labeled training data) across all tasks, reflecting education settings, where labeled data is often scarce. By applying effective prompting practices, we achieve human-level performance on multiple tasks with GPT-4, enabling workflows necessary to achieve typical goals. We also show the potential of inspecting LLMs' chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning for providing insight that may foster confidence in practice. Moreover, this study features development of a versatile set of classification categories, suitable for various course types (online, hybrid, or in-person) and amenable to customization. Our results suggest that LLMs can be used to derive a range of insights from survey text. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Multi-task View Synthesis with Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17450  
**Abstract:** Multi-task visual learning is a critical aspect of computer vision. Current research, however, predominantly concentrates on the multi-task dense prediction setting, which overlooks the intrinsic 3D world and its multi-view consistent structures, and lacks the capability for versatile imagination. In response to these limitations, we present a novel problem setting -- multi-task view synthesis (MTVS), which reinterprets multi-task prediction as a set of novel-view synthesis tasks for multiple scene properties, including RGB. To tackle the MTVS problem, we propose MuvieNeRF, a framework that incorporates both multi-task and cross-view knowledge to simultaneously synthesize multiple scene properties. MuvieNeRF integrates two key modules, the Cross-Task Attention (CTA) and Cross-View Attention (CVA) modules, enabling the efficient use of information across multiple views and tasks. Extensive evaluation on both synthetic and realistic benchmarks demonstrates that MuvieNeRF is capable of simultaneously synthesizing different scene properties with promising visual quality, even outperforming conventional discriminative models in various settings. Notably, we show that MuvieNeRF exhibits universal applicability across a range of NeRF backbones. Our code is available at https://github.com/zsh2000/MuvieNeRF. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** ToRA: A Tool-Integrated Reasoning Agent for Mathematical Problem Solving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17452  
**Abstract:** Large language models have made significant progress in various language tasks, yet they still struggle with complex mathematics. In this paper, we propose ToRA a series of Tool-integrated Reasoning Agents designed to solve challenging mathematical problems by seamlessly integrating natural language reasoning with the utilization of external tools (e.g., computation libraries and symbolic solvers), thereby amalgamating the analytical prowess of language and the computational efficiency of tools. To train ToRA, we curate interactive tool-use trajectories on mathematical datasets, apply imitation learning on the annotations, and propose output space shaping to further refine models' reasoning behavior. As a result, ToRA models significantly outperform open-source models on 10 mathematical reasoning datasets across all scales with 13%-19% absolute improvements on average. Notably, ToRA-7B reaches 44.6% on the competition-level dataset MATH, surpassing the best open-source model WizardMath-70B by 22% absolute. ToRA-34B is also the first open-source model that achieves an accuracy exceeding 50% on MATH, which significantly outperforms GPT-4's CoT result, and is competitive with GPT-4 solving problems with programs. Additionally, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of the benefits and remaining challenges of tool interaction for mathematical reasoning, providing valuable insights for future research. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Leveraging Side Information for Ligand Conformation Generation using  Diffusion-Based Approaches  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.16684  
**Abstract:** Ligand molecule conformation generation is a critical challenge in drug discovery. Deep learning models have been developed to tackle this problem, particularly through the use of generative models in recent years. However, these models often generate conformations that lack meaningful structure and randomness due to the absence of essential side information. Examples of such side information include the chemical and geometric features of the target protein, ligand-target compound interactions, and ligand chemical properties. Without these constraints, the generated conformations may not be suitable for further selection and design of new drugs. To address this limitation, we propose a novel method for generating ligand conformations that leverage side information and incorporate flexible constraints into standard diffusion models. Drawing inspiration from the concept of message passing, we introduce ligand-target massage passing block, a mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between target nodes and ligand nodes, thereby incorporating target node features. To capture non-covalent interactions, we introduce ligand-target compound inter and intra edges. To further improve the biological relevance of the generated conformations, we train energy models using scalar chemical features. These models guide the progress of the standard Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models, resulting in more biologically meaningful conformations. We evaluate the performance of SIDEGEN using the PDBBind-2020 dataset, comparing it against other methods. The results demonstrate improvements in both Aligned RMSD and Ligand RMSD evaluations. Specifically, our model outperforms GeoDiff (trained on PDBBind-2020) by 20% in terms of the median aligned RMSD metric. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Diffusion Models as Stochastic Quantization in Lattice Field Theory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17082  
**Abstract:** In this work, we establish a direct connection between generative diffusion models (DMs) and stochastic quantization (SQ). The DM is realized by approximating the reversal of a stochastic process dictated by the Langevin equation, generating samples from a prior distribution to effectively mimic the target distribution. Using numerical simulations, we demonstrate that the DM can serve as a global sampler for generating quantum lattice field configurations in two-dimensional $\phi^4$ theory. We demonstrate that DMs can notably reduce autocorrelation times in the Markov chain, especially in the critical region where standard Markov Chain Monte-Carlo (MCMC) algorithms experience critical slowing down. The findings can potentially inspire further advancements in lattice field theory simulations, in particular in cases where it is expensive to generate large ensembles. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Unpaired Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography Image Super-Resolution  via Frequency-Aware Inverse-Consistency GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17269  
**Abstract:** For optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) images, a limited scanning rate leads to a trade-off between field-of-view (FOV) and imaging resolution. Although larger FOV images may reveal more parafoveal vascular lesions, their application is greatly hampered due to lower resolution. To increase the resolution, previous works only achieved satisfactory performance by using paired data for training, but real-world applications are limited by the challenge of collecting large-scale paired images. Thus, an unpaired approach is highly demanded. Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) has been commonly used in the unpaired setting, but it may struggle to accurately preserve fine-grained capillary details, which are critical biomarkers for OCTA. In this paper, our approach aspires to preserve these details by leveraging the frequency information, which represents details as high-frequencies ($\textbf{hf}$) and coarse-grained backgrounds as low-frequencies ($\textbf{lf}$). In general, we propose a GAN-based unpaired super-resolution method for OCTA images and exceptionally emphasize $\textbf{hf}$ fine capillaries through a dual-path generator. To facilitate a precise spectrum of the reconstructed image, we also propose a frequency-aware adversarial loss for the discriminator and introduce a frequency-aware focal consistency loss for end-to-end optimization. Experiments show that our method outperforms other state-of-the-art unpaired methods both quantitatively and visually. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** In search of dispersed memories: Generative diffusion models are  associative memory networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17290  
**Abstract:** Hopfield networks are widely used in neuroscience as simplified theoretical models of biological associative memory. The original Hopfield networks store memories by encoding patterns of binary associations, which result in a synaptic learning mechanism known as Hebbian learning rule. Modern Hopfield networks can achieve exponential capacity scaling by using highly non-linear energy functions. However, the energy function of these newer models cannot be straightforwardly compressed into binary synaptic couplings and it does not directly provide new synaptic learning rules. In this work we show that generative diffusion models can be interpreted as energy-based models and that, when trained on discrete patterns, their energy function is equivalent to that of modern Hopfield networks. This equivalence allows us to interpret the supervised training of diffusion models as a synaptic learning process that encodes the associative dynamics of a modern Hopfield network in the weight structure of a deep neural network. Accordingly, in our experiments we show that the storage capacity of a continuous modern Hopfield network is identical to the capacity of a diffusion model. Our results establish a strong link between generative modeling and the theoretical neuroscience of memory, which provide a powerful computational foundation for the reconstructive theory of memory, where creative generation and memory recall can be seen as parts of a unified continuum. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Assessing Look-Ahead Bias in Stock Return Predictions Generated By GPT  Sentiment Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17322  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), including ChatGPT, can extract profitable trading signals from the sentiment in news text. However, backtesting such strategies poses a challenge because LLMs are trained on many years of data, and backtesting produces biased results if the training and backtesting periods overlap. This bias can take two forms: a look-ahead bias, in which the LLM may have specific knowledge of the stock returns that followed a news article, and a distraction effect, in which general knowledge of the companies named interferes with the measurement of a text's sentiment. We investigate these sources of bias through trading strategies driven by the sentiment of financial news headlines. We compare trading performance based on the original headlines with de-biased strategies in which we remove the relevant company's identifiers from the text. In-sample (within the LLM training window), we find, surprisingly, that the anonymized headlines outperform, indicating that the distraction effect has a greater impact than look-ahead bias. This tendency is particularly strong for larger companies--companies about which we expect an LLM to have greater general knowledge. Out-of-sample, look-ahead bias is not a concern but distraction remains possible. Our proposed anonymization procedure is therefore potentially useful in out-of-sample implementation, as well as for de-biased backtesting. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Multi-Depth Branches Network for Efficient Image Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.17334  
**Abstract:** Significant progress has been made in the field of super-resolution (SR), yet many convolutional neural networks (CNNs) based SR models primarily focus on restoring high-frequency details, often overlooking crucial low-frequency contour information. Transformer-based SR methods, while incorporating global structural details, frequently come with an abundance of parameters, leading to high computational overhead. In this paper, we address these challenges by introducing a Multi-Depth Branches Network (MDBN). This framework extends the ResNet architecture by integrating an additional branch that captures vital structural characteristics of images. Our proposed multi-depth branches module (MDBM) involves the stacking of convolutional kernels of identical size at varying depths within distinct branches. By conducting a comprehensive analysis of the feature maps, we observe that branches with differing depths can extract contour and detail information respectively. By integrating these branches, the overall architecture can preserve essential low-frequency semantic structural information during the restoration of high-frequency visual elements, which is more closely with human visual cognition. Compared to GoogLeNet-like models, our basic multi-depth branches structure has fewer parameters, higher computational efficiency, and improved performance. Our model outperforms state-of-the-art (SOTA) lightweight SR methods with less inference time. Our code is available at https://github.com/thy960112/MDBN 

