**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Consistency Trajectory Models: Learning Probability Flow ODE Trajectory  of Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02279  
**Abstract:** Consistency Models (CM) (Song et al., 2023) accelerate score-based diffusion model sampling at the cost of sample quality but lack a natural way to trade-off quality for speed. To address this limitation, we propose Consistency Trajectory Model (CTM), a generalization encompassing CM and score-based models as special cases. CTM trains a single neural network that can -- in a single forward pass -- output scores (i.e., gradients of log-density) and enables unrestricted traversal between any initial and final time along the Probability Flow Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE) in a diffusion process. CTM enables the efficient combination of adversarial training and denoising score matching loss to enhance performance and achieves new state-of-the-art FIDs for single-step diffusion model sampling on CIFAR-10 (FID 1.73) and ImageNet at 64X64 resolution (FID 2.06). CTM also enables a new family of sampling schemes, both deterministic and stochastic, involving long jumps along the ODE solution trajectories. It consistently improves sample quality as computational budgets increase, avoiding the degradation seen in CM. Furthermore, CTM's access to the score accommodates all diffusion model inference techniques, including exact likelihood computation. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** CLIP Is Also a Good Teacher: A New Learning Framework for Inductive  Zero-shot Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02296  
**Abstract:** Existing Generalized Zero-shot Semantic Segmentation (GZLSS) methods apply either finetuning the CLIP paradigm or formulating it as a mask classification task, benefiting from the Vision-Language Models (VLMs). However, the fine-tuning methods are restricted with fixed backbone models which are not flexible for segmentation, and mask classification methods heavily rely on additional explicit mask proposers. Meanwhile, prevalent methods utilize only seen categories which is a great waste, i.e., neglecting the area exists but not annotated. To this end, we propose CLIPTeacher, a new learning framework that can be applied to various per-pixel classification segmentation models without introducing any explicit mask proposer or changing the structure of CLIP, and utilize both seen and ignoring areas. Specifically, CLIPTeacher consists of two key modules: Global Learning Module (GLM) and Pixel Learning Module (PLM). Specifically, GLM aligns the dense features from an image encoder with the CLS token, i.e., the only token trained in CLIP, which is a simple but effective way to probe global information from the CLIP models. In contrast, PLM only leverages dense tokens from CLIP to produce high-level pseudo annotations for ignoring areas without introducing any extra mask proposer. Meanwhile, PLM can fully take advantage of the whole image based on the pseudo annotations. Experimental results on three benchmark datasets: PASCAL VOC 2012, COCO-Stuff 164k, and PASCAL Context show large performance gains, i.e., 2.2%, 1.3%, and 8.8% 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Self-Taught Optimizer (STOP): Recursively Self-Improving Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02304  
**Abstract:** Several recent advances in AI systems (e.g., Tree-of-Thoughts and Program-Aided Language Models) solve problems by providing a "scaffolding" program that structures multiple calls to language models to generate better outputs. A scaffolding program is written in a programming language such as Python. In this work, we use a language-model-infused scaffolding program to improve itself. We start with a seed "improver" that improves an input program according to a given utility function by querying a language model several times and returning the best solution. We then run this seed improver to improve itself. Across a small set of downstream tasks, the resulting improved improver generates programs with significantly better performance than its seed improver. Afterward, we analyze the variety of self-improvement strategies proposed by the language model, including beam search, genetic algorithms, and simulated annealing. Since the language models themselves are not altered, this is not full recursive self-improvement. Nonetheless, it demonstrates that a modern language model, GPT-4 in our proof-of-concept experiments, is capable of writing code that can call itself to improve itself. We critically consider concerns around the development of self-improving technologies and evaluate the frequency with which the generated code bypasses a sandbox. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Stochastic force inference via density estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02366  
**Abstract:** Inferring dynamical models from low-resolution temporal data continues to be a significant challenge in biophysics, especially within transcriptomics, where separating molecular programs from noise remains an important open problem. We explore a common scenario in which we have access to an adequate amount of cross-sectional samples at a few time-points, and assume that our samples are generated from a latent diffusion process. We propose an approach that relies on the probability flow associated with an underlying diffusion process to infer an autonomous, nonlinear force field interpolating between the distributions. Given a prior on the noise model, we employ score-matching to differentiate the force field from the intrinsic noise. Using relevant biophysical examples, we demonstrate that our approach can extract non-conservative forces from non-stationary data, that it learns equilibrium dynamics when applied to steady-state data, and that it can do so with both additive and multiplicative noise models. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Reinforcement Learning from Automatic Feedback for High-Quality Unit  Test Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02368  
**Abstract:** Software testing is a crucial aspect of software development, and the creation of high-quality tests that adhere to best practices is essential for effective maintenance. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained popularity for code generation, including the automated creation of test cases. However, these LLMs are often trained on vast amounts of publicly available code, which may include test cases that do not adhere to best practices and may even contain test smells (anti-patterns). To address this issue, we propose a novel technique called Reinforcement Learning from Static Quality Metrics (RLSQM). To begin, we analyze the anti-patterns generated by the LLM and show that LLMs can generate undesirable test smells. Thus, we train specific reward models for each static quality metric, then utilize Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) to train models for optimizing a single quality metric at a time. Furthermore, we amalgamate these rewards into a unified reward model aimed at capturing different best practices and quality aspects of tests. By comparing RL-trained models with those trained using supervised learning, we provide insights into how reliably utilize RL to improve test generation quality and into the effects of various training strategies. Our experimental results demonstrate that the RL-optimized model consistently generated high-quality test cases compared to the base LLM, improving the model by up to 21%, and successfully generates nearly 100% syntactically correct code. RLSQM also outperformed GPT-4 on four out of seven metrics. This represents a significant step towards enhancing the overall efficiency and reliability of software testing through Reinforcement Learning and static quality metrics. Our data are available at this link: https://figshare.com/s/ded476c8d4c221222849. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** ProtoNER: Few shot Incremental Learning for Named Entity Recognition  using Prototypical Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02372  
**Abstract:** Key value pair (KVP) extraction or Named Entity Recognition(NER) from visually rich documents has been an active area of research in document understanding and data extraction domain. Several transformer based models such as LayoutLMv2, LayoutLMv3, and LiLT have emerged achieving state of the art results. However, addition of even a single new class to the existing model requires (a) re-annotation of entire training dataset to include this new class and (b) retraining the model again. Both of these issues really slow down the deployment of updated model. \\ We present \textbf{ProtoNER}: Prototypical Network based end-to-end KVP extraction model that allows addition of new classes to an existing model while requiring minimal number of newly annotated training samples. The key contributions of our model are: (1) No dependency on dataset used for initial training of the model, which alleviates the need to retain original training dataset for longer duration as well as data re-annotation which is very time consuming task, (2) No intermediate synthetic data generation which tends to add noise and results in model's performance degradation, and (3) Hybrid loss function which allows model to retain knowledge about older classes as well as learn about newly added classes.\\ Experimental results show that ProtoNER finetuned with just 30 samples is able to achieve similar results for the newly added classes as that of regular model finetuned with 2600 samples. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Secure and Effective Data Appraisal for Machine Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02373  
**Abstract:** Essential for an unfettered data market is the ability to discreetly select and evaluate training data before finalizing a transaction between the data owner and model owner. To safeguard the privacy of both data and model, this process involves scrutinizing the target model through Multi-Party Computation (MPC). While prior research has posited that the MPC-based evaluation of Transformer models is excessively resource-intensive, this paper introduces an innovative approach that renders data selection practical. The contributions of this study encompass three pivotal elements: (1) a groundbreaking pipeline for confidential data selection using MPC, (2) replicating intricate high-dimensional operations with simplified low-dimensional MLPs trained on a limited subset of pertinent data, and (3) implementing MPC in a concurrent, multi-phase manner. The proposed method is assessed across an array of Transformer models and NLP/CV benchmarks. In comparison to the direct MPC-based evaluation of the target model, our approach substantially reduces the time required, from thousands of hours to mere tens of hours, with only a nominal 0.20% dip in accuracy when training with the selected data. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Unsupervised Speech Recognition with N-Skipgram and Positional Unigram  Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02382  
**Abstract:** Training unsupervised speech recognition systems presents challenges due to GAN-associated instability, misalignment between speech and text, and significant memory demands. To tackle these challenges, we introduce a novel ASR system, ESPUM. This system harnesses the power of lower-order N-skipgrams (up to N=3) combined with positional unigram statistics gathered from a small batch of samples. Evaluated on the TIMIT benchmark, our model showcases competitive performance in ASR and phoneme segmentation tasks. Access our publicly available code at https://github.com/lwang114/GraphUnsupASR. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** SE(3)-Stochastic Flow Matching for Protein Backbone Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02391  
**Abstract:** The computational design of novel protein structures has the potential to impact numerous scientific disciplines greatly. Toward this goal, we introduce $\text{FoldFlow}$ a series of novel generative models of increasing modeling power based on the flow-matching paradigm over $3\text{D}$ rigid motions -- i.e. the group $\text{SE(3)}$ -- enabling accurate modeling of protein backbones. We first introduce $\text{FoldFlow-Base}$, a simulation-free approach to learning deterministic continuous-time dynamics and matching invariant target distributions on $\text{SE(3)}$. We next accelerate training by incorporating Riemannian optimal transport to create $\text{FoldFlow-OT}$, leading to the construction of both more simple and stable flows. Finally, we design $\text{FoldFlow-SFM}$ coupling both Riemannian OT and simulation-free training to learn stochastic continuous-time dynamics over $\text{SE(3)}$. Our family of $\text{FoldFlow}$ generative models offer several key advantages over previous approaches to the generative modeling of proteins: they are more stable and faster to train than diffusion-based approaches, and our models enjoy the ability to map any invariant source distribution to any invariant target distribution over $\text{SE(3)}$. Empirically, we validate our FoldFlow models on protein backbone generation of up to $300$ amino acids leading to high-quality designable, diverse, and novel samples. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** FT-Shield: A Watermark Against Unauthorized Fine-tuning in Text-to-Image  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02401  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image generative models based on latent diffusion models (LDM) have demonstrated their outstanding ability in generating high-quality and high-resolution images according to language prompt. Based on these powerful latent diffusion models, various fine-tuning methods have been proposed to achieve the personalization of text-to-image diffusion models such as artistic style adaptation and human face transfer. However, the unauthorized usage of data for model personalization has emerged as a prevalent concern in relation to copyright violations. For example, a malicious user may use the fine-tuning technique to generate images which mimic the style of a painter without his/her permission. In light of this concern, we have proposed FT-Shield, a watermarking approach specifically designed for the fine-tuning of text-to-image diffusion models to aid in detecting instances of infringement. We develop a novel algorithm for the generation of the watermark to ensure that the watermark on the training images can be quickly and accurately transferred to the generated images of text-to-image diffusion models. A watermark will be detected on an image by a binary watermark detector if the image is generated by a model that has been fine-tuned using the protected watermarked images. Comprehensive experiments were conducted to validate the effectiveness of FT-Shield. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** PCGPT: Procedural Content Generation via Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02405  
**Abstract:** The paper presents the PCGPT framework, an innovative approach to procedural content generation (PCG) using offline reinforcement learning and transformer networks. PCGPT utilizes an autoregressive model based on transformers to generate game levels iteratively, addressing the challenges of traditional PCG methods such as repetitive, predictable, or inconsistent content. The framework models trajectories of actions, states, and rewards, leveraging the transformer's self-attention mechanism to capture temporal dependencies and causal relationships. The approach is evaluated in the Sokoban puzzle game, where the model predicts items that are needed with their corresponding locations. Experimental results on the game Sokoban demonstrate that PCGPT generates more complex and diverse game content. Interestingly, it achieves these results in significantly fewer steps compared to existing methods, showcasing its potential for enhancing game design and online content generation. Our model represents a new PCG paradigm which outperforms previous methods. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Nugget 2D: Dynamic Contextual Compression for Scaling Decoder-only  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02409  
**Abstract:** Standard Transformer-based language models (LMs) scale poorly to long contexts. We propose a solution based on dynamic contextual compression, which extends the Nugget approach of Qin & Van Durme (2023) from BERT-like frameworks to decoder-only LMs. Our method models history as compressed "nuggets" which are trained to allow for reconstruction, and it can be initialized with off-the-shelf models such as LLaMA. We demonstrate through experiments in language modeling, question answering, and summarization that Nugget2D retains capabilities in these tasks, while drastically reducing the overhead during decoding in terms of time and space. For example, in the experiments of autoencoding, Nugget2D can shrink context at a 20x compression ratio with a BLEU score of 98% for reconstruction, achieving nearly lossless encoding. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** EditVal: Benchmarking Diffusion Based Text-Guided Image Editing Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02426  
**Abstract:** A plethora of text-guided image editing methods have recently been developed by leveraging the impressive capabilities of large-scale diffusion-based generative models such as Imagen and Stable Diffusion. A standardized evaluation protocol, however, does not exist to compare methods across different types of fine-grained edits. To address this gap, we introduce EditVal, a standardized benchmark for quantitatively evaluating text-guided image editing methods. EditVal consists of a curated dataset of images, a set of editable attributes for each image drawn from 13 possible edit types, and an automated evaluation pipeline that uses pre-trained vision-language models to assess the fidelity of generated images for each edit type. We use EditVal to benchmark 8 cutting-edge diffusion-based editing methods including SINE, Imagic and Instruct-Pix2Pix. We complement this with a large-scale human study where we show that EditVall's automated evaluation pipeline is strongly correlated with human-preferences for the edit types we considered. From both the human study and automated evaluation, we find that: (i) Instruct-Pix2Pix, Null-Text and SINE are the top-performing methods averaged across different edit types, however {\it only} Instruct-Pix2Pix and Null-Text are able to preserve original image properties; (ii) Most of the editing methods fail at edits involving spatial operations (e.g., changing the position of an object). (iii) There is no `winner' method which ranks the best individually across a range of different edit types. We hope that our benchmark can pave the way to developing more reliable text-guided image editing tools in the future. We will publicly release EditVal, and all associated code and human-study templates to support these research directions in https://deep-ml-research.github.io/editval/. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Can Large Language Models Provide Security & Privacy Advice? Measuring  the Ability of LLMs to Refute Misconceptions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02431  
**Abstract:** Users seek security & privacy (S&P) advice from online resources, including trusted websites and content-sharing platforms. These resources help users understand S&P technologies and tools and suggest actionable strategies. Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently emerged as trusted information sources. However, their accuracy and correctness have been called into question. Prior research has outlined the shortcomings of LLMs in answering multiple-choice questions and user ability to inadvertently circumvent model restrictions (e.g., to produce toxic content). Yet, the ability of LLMs to provide reliable S&P advice is not well-explored. In this paper, we measure their ability to refute popular S&P misconceptions that the general public holds. We first study recent academic literature to curate a dataset of over a hundred S&P-related misconceptions across six different topics. We then query two popular LLMs (Bard and ChatGPT) and develop a labeling guide to evaluate their responses to these misconceptions. To comprehensively evaluate their responses, we further apply three strategies: query each misconception multiple times, generate and query their paraphrases, and solicit source URLs of the responses. Both models demonstrate, on average, a 21.3% non-negligible error rate, incorrectly supporting popular S&P misconceptions. The error rate increases to 32.6% when we repeatedly query LLMs with the same or paraphrased misconceptions. We also expose that models may partially support a misconception or remain noncommittal, refusing a firm stance on misconceptions. Our exploration of information sources for responses revealed that LLMs are susceptible to providing invalid URLs (21.2% for Bard and 67.7% for ChatGPT) or point to unrelated sources (44.2% returned by Bard and 18.3% by ChatGPT). 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** EvDNeRF: Reconstructing Event Data with Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02437  
**Abstract:** We present EvDNeRF, a pipeline for generating event data and training an event-based dynamic NeRF, for the purpose of faithfully reconstructing eventstreams on scenes with rigid and non-rigid deformations that may be too fast to capture with a standard camera. Event cameras register asynchronous per-pixel brightness changes at MHz rates with high dynamic range, making them ideal for observing fast motion with almost no motion blur. Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) offer visual-quality geometric-based learnable rendering, but prior work with events has only considered reconstruction of static scenes. Our EvDNeRF can predict eventstreams of dynamic scenes from a static or moving viewpoint between any desired timestamps, thereby allowing it to be used as an event-based simulator for a given scene. We show that by training on varied batch sizes of events, we can improve test-time predictions of events at fine time resolutions, outperforming baselines that pair standard dynamic NeRFs with event simulators. We release our simulated and real datasets, as well as code for both event-based data generation and the training of event-based dynamic NeRF models (https://github.com/anish-bhattacharya/EvDNeRF). 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** GenCO: Generating Diverse Solutions to Design Problems with  Combinatorial Nature  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02442  
**Abstract:** Generating diverse objects (e.g., images) using generative models (such as GAN or VAE) has achieved impressive results in the recent years, to help solve many design problems that are traditionally done by humans. Going beyond image generation, we aim to find solutions to more general design problems, in which both the diversity of the design and conformity of constraints are important. Such a setting has applications in computer graphics, animation, industrial design, material science, etc, in which we may want the output of the generator to follow discrete/combinatorial constraints and penalize any deviation, which is non-trivial with existing generative models and optimization solvers. To address this, we propose GenCO, a novel framework that conducts end-to-end training of deep generative models integrated with embedded combinatorial solvers, aiming to uncover high-quality solutions aligned with nonlinear objectives. While structurally akin to conventional generative models, GenCO diverges in its role - it focuses on generating instances of combinatorial optimization problems rather than final objects (e.g., images). This shift allows finer control over the generated outputs, enabling assessments of their feasibility and introducing an additional combinatorial loss component. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on a variety of generative tasks characterized by combinatorial intricacies, including game level generation and map creation for path planning, consistently demonstrating its capability to yield diverse, high-quality solutions that reliably adhere to user-specified combinatorial properties. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Low-Resource Languages Jailbreak GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02446  
**Abstract:** AI safety training and red-teaming of large language models (LLMs) are measures to mitigate the generation of unsafe content. Our work exposes the inherent cross-lingual vulnerability of these safety mechanisms, resulting from the linguistic inequality of safety training data, by successfully circumventing GPT-4's safeguard through translating unsafe English inputs into low-resource languages. On the AdvBenchmark, GPT-4 engages with the unsafe translated inputs and provides actionable items that can get the users towards their harmful goals 79% of the time, which is on par with or even surpassing state-of-the-art jailbreaking attacks. Other high-/mid-resource languages have significantly lower attack success rate, which suggests that the cross-lingual vulnerability mainly applies to low-resource languages. Previously, limited training on low-resource languages primarily affects speakers of those languages, causing technological disparities. However, our work highlights a crucial shift: this deficiency now poses a risk to all LLMs users. Publicly available translation APIs enable anyone to exploit LLMs' safety vulnerabilities. Therefore, our work calls for a more holistic red-teaming efforts to develop robust multilingual safeguards with wide language coverage. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** ResidualTransformer: Residual Low-rank Learning with Weight-sharing for  Transformer Layers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02489  
**Abstract:** Memory constraint of always-on devices is one of the major concerns when deploying speech processing models on these devices. While larger models trained with sufficiently large amount of data generally perform better, making them fit in the device memory is a demanding challenge. In this paper, we aim to reduce model size by reparameterizing model weights across Transformer encoder layers and assuming a special weight composition and structure. More specifically, inspired by ResNet and the more recent LoRA work, we propose an approach named ResidualTransformer, where each weight matrix in a Transformer layer comprises 1) a shared full-rank component with its adjacent layers, and 2) a unique low-rank component to itself. The low-rank matrices only account for a small amount of model size increase. In addition, we add diagonal weight matrices to improve modeling capacity of the low-rank matrices. Experiments of our 10k-hour speech recognition and speech translation tasks show that the Transformer encoder size can be reduced by ~3X with very slight performance degradation. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Learning to Reach Goals via Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02505  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are a powerful class of generative models capable of mapping random noise in high-dimensional spaces to a target manifold through iterative denoising. In this work, we present a novel perspective on goal-conditioned reinforcement learning by framing it within the context of diffusion modeling. Analogous to the diffusion process, where Gaussian noise is used to create random trajectories that walk away from the data manifold, we construct trajectories that move away from potential goal states. We then learn a goal-conditioned policy analogous to the score function. This approach, which we call Merlin, can reach predefined or novel goals from an arbitrary initial state without learning a separate value function. We consider three choices for the noise model to replace Gaussian noise in diffusion - reverse play from the buffer, reverse dynamics model, and a novel non-parametric approach. We theoretically justify our approach and validate it on offline goal-reaching tasks. Empirical results are competitive with state-of-the-art methods, which suggests this perspective on diffusion for RL is a simple, scalable, and effective direction for sequential decision-making. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Proactive Human-Robot Interaction using Visuo-Lingual Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02506  
**Abstract:** Humans possess the innate ability to extract latent visuo-lingual cues to infer context through human interaction. During collaboration, this enables proactive prediction of the underlying intention of a series of tasks. In contrast, robotic agents collaborating with humans naively follow elementary instructions to complete tasks or use specific hand-crafted triggers to initiate proactive collaboration when working towards the completion of a goal. Endowing such robots with the ability to reason about the end goal and proactively suggest intermediate tasks will engender a much more intuitive method for human-robot collaboration. To this end, we propose a learning-based method that uses visual cues from the scene, lingual commands from a user and knowledge of prior object-object interaction to identify and proactively predict the underlying goal the user intends to achieve. Specifically, we propose ViLing-MMT, a vision-language multimodal transformer-based architecture that captures inter and intra-modal dependencies to provide accurate scene descriptions and proactively suggest tasks where applicable. We evaluate our proposed model in simulation and real-world scenarios. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Ophiuchus: Scalable Modeling of Protein Structures through Hierarchical  Coarse-graining SO(3)-Equivariant Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02508  
**Abstract:** Three-dimensional native states of natural proteins display recurring and hierarchical patterns. Yet, traditional graph-based modeling of protein structures is often limited to operate within a single fine-grained resolution, and lacks hourglass neural architectures to learn those high-level building blocks. We narrow this gap by introducing Ophiuchus, an SO(3)-equivariant coarse-graining model that efficiently operates on all heavy atoms of standard protein residues, while respecting their relevant symmetries. Our model departs from current approaches that employ graph modeling, instead focusing on local convolutional coarsening to model sequence-motif interactions in log-linear length complexity. We train Ophiuchus on contiguous fragments of PDB monomers, investigating its reconstruction capabilities across different compression rates. We examine the learned latent space and demonstrate its prompt usage in conformational interpolation, comparing interpolated trajectories to structure snapshots from the PDBFlex dataset. Finally, we leverage denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPM) to efficiently sample readily-decodable latent embeddings of diverse miniproteins. Our experiments demonstrate Ophiuchus to be a scalable basis for efficient protein modeling and generation. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** MedDiffusion: Boosting Health Risk Prediction via Diffusion-based Data  Augmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02520  
**Abstract:** Health risk prediction is one of the fundamental tasks under predictive modeling in the medical domain, which aims to forecast the potential health risks that patients may face in the future using their historical Electronic Health Records (EHR). Researchers have developed several risk prediction models to handle the unique challenges of EHR data, such as its sequential nature, high dimensionality, and inherent noise. These models have yielded impressive results. Nonetheless, a key issue undermining their effectiveness is data insufficiency. A variety of data generation and augmentation methods have been introduced to mitigate this issue by expanding the size of the training data set through the learning of underlying data distributions. However, the performance of these methods is often limited due to their task-unrelated design. To address these shortcomings, this paper introduces a novel, end-to-end diffusion-based risk prediction model, named MedDiffusion. It enhances risk prediction performance by creating synthetic patient data during training to enlarge sample space. Furthermore, MedDiffusion discerns hidden relationships between patient visits using a step-wise attention mechanism, enabling the model to automatically retain the most vital information for generating high-quality data. Experimental evaluation on four real-world medical datasets demonstrates that MedDiffusion outperforms 14 cutting-edge baselines in terms of PR-AUC, F1, and Cohen's Kappa. We also conduct ablation studies and benchmark our model against GAN-based alternatives to further validate the rationality and adaptability of our model design. Additionally, we analyze generated data to offer fresh insights into the model's interpretability. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** CITING: Large Language Models Create Curriculum for Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02527  
**Abstract:** The recent advancement of large language models (LLMs) has been achieved through a combo of instruction tuning and human alignment. However, building manually crafted instruction datasets and performing human alignment become the bottleneck for scaling the development of LLMs. In this paper, we exploit the idea of leveraging AI models in lieu of humans as the teacher to train student LLMs. Our method is inspired by how human students refine their writing skills by following the rubrics and learning from the revisions offered by their tutors. Specifically, we employ a teacher LLM to create a curriculum for instruction tuning of the student LLM, namely Curriculum Instruction TunING (CITING). It encompasses two main steps: (1) the teacher LLM crafts the rubrics for evaluating the answers corresponding to various types of questions, and (2) the student LLM learns to follow the rubrics and perform self-correction from the revision made by the teacher. We further iteratively carry out it to embody the procedure of CITING. We compare CITING to a series of state-of-the-art baselines on four datasets. Our method demonstrates strong improvement in terms of articulate, in-depth, and comprehensive by GPT-4 evaluation. Specifically, it achieves an average winning rate of 79.4% over SFT, 73.4% over RLHF, 78.1% over RRHF, and 76.3% over RAFT, respectively. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** MIDDAG: Where Does Our News Go? Investigating Information Diffusion via  Community-Level Information Pathways  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02529  
**Abstract:** We present MIDDAG, an intuitive, interactive system that visualizes the information propagation paths on social media triggered by COVID-19-related news articles accompanied by comprehensive insights including user/community susceptibility level, as well as events and popular opinions raised by the crowd while propagating the information. Besides discovering information flow patterns among users, we construct communities among users and develop the propagation forecasting capability, enabling tracing and understanding of how information is disseminated at a higher level. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** SlowFormer: Universal Adversarial Patch for Attack on Compute and Energy  Efficiency of Inference Efficient Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02544  
**Abstract:** Recently, there has been a lot of progress in reducing the computation of deep models at inference time. These methods can reduce both the computational needs and power usage of deep models. Some of these approaches adaptively scale the compute based on the input instance. We show that such models can be vulnerable to a universal adversarial patch attack, where the attacker optimizes for a patch that when pasted on any image, can increase the compute and power consumption of the model. We run experiments with three different efficient vision transformer methods showing that in some cases, the attacker can increase the computation to the maximum possible level by simply pasting a patch that occupies only 8\% of the image area. We also show that a standard adversarial training defense method can reduce some of the attack's success. We believe adaptive efficient methods will be necessary for the future to lower the power usage of deep models, so we hope our paper encourages the community to study the robustness of these methods and develop better defense methods for the proposed attack. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** NOLA: Networks as Linear Combination of Low Rank Random Basis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02556  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently gained popularity due to their impressive few-shot performance across various downstream tasks. However, fine-tuning all parameters and storing a unique model for each downstream task or domain becomes impractical because of the massive size of checkpoints (e.g., 350GB in GPT-3). Current literature, such as LoRA, showcases the potential of low-rank modifications to the original weights of an LLM, enabling efficient adaptation and storage for task-specific models. These methods can reduce the number of parameters needed to fine-tune an LLM by several orders of magnitude. Yet, these methods face two primary limitations: 1) the parameter reduction is lower-bounded by the rank one decomposition, and 2) the extent of reduction is heavily influenced by both the model architecture and the chosen rank. For instance, in larger models, even a rank one decomposition might exceed the number of parameters truly needed for adaptation. In this paper, we introduce NOLA, which overcomes the rank one lower bound present in LoRA. It achieves this by re-parameterizing the low-rank matrices in LoRA using linear combinations of randomly generated matrices (basis) and optimizing the linear mixture coefficients only. This approach allows us to decouple the number of trainable parameters from both the choice of rank and the network architecture. We present adaptation results using GPT-2 and ViT in natural language and computer vision tasks. NOLA performs as well as, or better than models with equivalent parameter counts. Furthermore, we demonstrate that we can halve the parameters in larger models compared to LoRA with rank one, without sacrificing performance. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Generalization in diffusion models arises from geometry-adaptive  harmonic representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02557  
**Abstract:** High-quality samples generated with score-based reverse diffusion algorithms provide evidence that deep neural networks (DNN) trained for denoising can learn high-dimensional densities, despite the curse of dimensionality. However, recent reports of memorization of the training set raise the question of whether these networks are learning the "true" continuous density of the data. Here, we show that two denoising DNNs trained on non-overlapping subsets of a dataset learn nearly the same score function, and thus the same density, with a surprisingly small number of training images. This strong generalization demonstrates an alignment of powerful inductive biases in the DNN architecture and/or training algorithm with properties of the data distribution. We analyze these, demonstrating that the denoiser performs a shrinkage operation in a basis adapted to the underlying image. Examination of these bases reveals oscillating harmonic structures along contours and in homogeneous image regions. We show that trained denoisers are inductively biased towards these geometry-adaptive harmonic representations by demonstrating that they arise even when the network is trained on image classes such as low-dimensional manifolds, for which the harmonic basis is suboptimal. Additionally, we show that the denoising performance of the networks is near-optimal when trained on regular image classes for which the optimal basis is known to be geometry-adaptive and harmonic. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Improving Drumming Robot Via Attention Transformer Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02565  
**Abstract:** Robotic technology has been widely used in nowadays society, which has made great progress in various fields such as agriculture, manufacturing and entertainment. In this paper, we focus on the topic of drumming robots in entertainment. To this end, we introduce an improving drumming robot that can automatically complete music transcription based on the popular vision transformer network based on the attention mechanism. Equipped with the attention transformer network, our method can efficiently handle the sequential audio embedding input and model their global long-range dependencies. Massive experimental results demonstrate that the improving algorithm can help the drumming robot promote drum classification performance, which can also help the robot to enjoy a variety of smart applications and services. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** SweetDreamer: Aligning Geometric Priors in 2D Diffusion for Consistent  Text-to-3D  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02596  
**Abstract:** It is inherently ambiguous to lift 2D results from pre-trained diffusion models to a 3D world for text-to-3D generation. 2D diffusion models solely learn view-agnostic priors and thus lack 3D knowledge during the lifting, leading to the multi-view inconsistency problem. We find that this problem primarily stems from geometric inconsistency, and avoiding misplaced geometric structures substantially mitigates the problem in the final outputs. Therefore, we improve the consistency by aligning the 2D geometric priors in diffusion models with well-defined 3D shapes during the lifting, addressing the vast majority of the problem. This is achieved by fine-tuning the 2D diffusion model to be viewpoint-aware and to produce view-specific coordinate maps of canonically oriented 3D objects. In our process, only coarse 3D information is used for aligning. This "coarse" alignment not only resolves the multi-view inconsistency in geometries but also retains the ability in 2D diffusion models to generate detailed and diversified high-quality objects unseen in the 3D datasets. Furthermore, our aligned geometric priors (AGP) are generic and can be seamlessly integrated into various state-of-the-art pipelines, obtaining high generalizability in terms of unseen shapes and visual appearance while greatly alleviating the multi-view inconsistency problem. Our method represents a new state-of-the-art performance with an 85+% consistency rate by human evaluation, while many previous methods are around 30%. Our project page is https://sweetdreamer3d.github.io/ 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** MagicDrive: Street View Generation with Diverse 3D Geometry Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02601  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in diffusion models have significantly enhanced the data synthesis with 2D control. Yet, precise 3D control in street view generation, crucial for 3D perception tasks, remains elusive. Specifically, utilizing Bird's-Eye View (BEV) as the primary condition often leads to challenges in geometry control (e.g., height), affecting the representation of object shapes, occlusion patterns, and road surface elevations, all of which are essential to perception data synthesis, especially for 3D object detection tasks. In this paper, we introduce MagicDrive, a novel street view generation framework offering diverse 3D geometry controls, including camera poses, road maps, and 3D bounding boxes, together with textual descriptions, achieved through tailored encoding strategies. Besides, our design incorporates a cross-view attention module, ensuring consistency across multiple camera views. With MagicDrive, we achieve high-fidelity street-view synthesis that captures nuanced 3D geometry and various scene descriptions, enhancing tasks like BEV segmentation and 3D object detection. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Generative Modeling of Regular and Irregular Time Series Data via  Koopman VAEs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02619  
**Abstract:** Generating realistic time series data is important for many engineering and scientific applications. Existing work tackles this problem using generative adversarial networks (GANs). However, GANs are often unstable during training, and they can suffer from mode collapse. While variational autoencoders (VAEs) are known to be more robust to these issues, they are (surprisingly) less often considered for time series generation. In this work, we introduce Koopman VAE (KVAE), a new generative framework that is based on a novel design for the model prior, and that can be optimized for either regular and irregular training data. Inspired by Koopman theory, we represent the latent conditional prior dynamics using a linear map. Our approach enhances generative modeling with two desired features: (i) incorporating domain knowledge can be achieved by leverageing spectral tools that prescribe constraints on the eigenvalues of the linear map; and (ii) studying the qualitative behavior and stablity of the system can be performed using tools from dynamical systems theory. Our results show that KVAE outperforms state-of-the-art GAN and VAE methods across several challenging synthetic and real-world time series generation benchmarks. Whether trained on regular or irregular data, KVAE generates time series that improve both discriminative and predictive metrics. We also present visual evidence suggesting that KVAE learns probability density functions that better approximate empirical ground truth distributions. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** P2CADNet: An End-to-End Reconstruction Network for Parametric 3D CAD  Model from Point Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02638  
**Abstract:** Computer Aided Design (CAD), especially the feature-based parametric CAD, plays an important role in modern industry and society. However, the reconstruction of featured CAD model is more challenging than the reconstruction of other CAD models. To this end, this paper proposes an end-to-end network to reconstruct featured CAD model from point cloud (P2CADNet). Initially, the proposed P2CADNet architecture combines a point cloud feature extractor, a CAD sequence reconstructor and a parameter optimizer. Subsequently, in order to reconstruct the featured CAD model in an autoregressive way, the CAD sequence reconstructor applies two transformer decoders, one with target mask and the other without mask. Finally, for predicting parameters more precisely, we design a parameter optimizer with cross-attention mechanism to further refine the CAD feature parameters. We evaluate P2CADNet on the public dataset, and the experimental results show that P2CADNet has excellent reconstruction quality and accuracy. To our best knowledge, P2CADNet is the first end-to-end network to reconstruct featured CAD model from point cloud, and can be regarded as baseline for future works. Therefore, we open the source code at https://github.com/Blice0415/P2CADNet. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Deformation-Invariant Neural Network and Its Applications in Distorted  Image Restoration and Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02641  
**Abstract:** Images degraded by geometric distortions pose a significant challenge to imaging and computer vision tasks such as object recognition. Deep learning-based imaging models usually fail to give accurate performance for geometrically distorted images. In this paper, we propose the deformation-invariant neural network (DINN), a framework to address the problem of imaging tasks for geometrically distorted images. The DINN outputs consistent latent features for images that are geometrically distorted but represent the same underlying object or scene. The idea of DINN is to incorporate a simple component, called the quasiconformal transformer network (QCTN), into other existing deep networks for imaging tasks. The QCTN is a deep neural network that outputs a quasiconformal map, which can be used to transform a geometrically distorted image into an improved version that is closer to the distribution of natural or good images. It first outputs a Beltrami coefficient, which measures the quasiconformality of the output deformation map. By controlling the Beltrami coefficient, the local geometric distortion under the quasiconformal mapping can be controlled. The QCTN is lightweight and simple, which can be readily integrated into other existing deep neural networks to enhance their performance. Leveraging our framework, we have developed an image classification network that achieves accurate classification of distorted images. Our proposed framework has been applied to restore geometrically distorted images by atmospheric turbulence and water turbulence. DINN outperforms existing GAN-based restoration methods under these scenarios, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed framework. Additionally, we apply our proposed framework to the 1-1 verification of human face images under atmospheric turbulence and achieve satisfactory performance, further demonstrating the efficacy of our approach. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** GET: Group Event Transformer for Event-Based Vision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02642  
**Abstract:** Event cameras are a type of novel neuromorphic sen-sor that has been gaining increasing attention. Existing event-based backbones mainly rely on image-based designs to extract spatial information within the image transformed from events, overlooking important event properties like time and polarity. To address this issue, we propose a novel Group-based vision Transformer backbone for Event-based vision, called Group Event Transformer (GET), which de-couples temporal-polarity information from spatial infor-mation throughout the feature extraction process. Specifi-cally, we first propose a new event representation for GET, named Group Token, which groups asynchronous events based on their timestamps and polarities. Then, GET ap-plies the Event Dual Self-Attention block, and Group Token Aggregation module to facilitate effective feature commu-nication and integration in both the spatial and temporal-polarity domains. After that, GET can be integrated with different downstream tasks by connecting it with vari-ous heads. We evaluate our method on four event-based classification datasets (Cifar10-DVS, N-MNIST, N-CARS, and DVS128Gesture) and two event-based object detection datasets (1Mpx and Gen1), and the results demonstrate that GET outperforms other state-of-the-art methods. The code is available at https://github.com/Peterande/GET-Group-Event-Transformer. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** A Study of Quantisation-aware Training on Time Series Transformer Models  for Resource-constrained FPGAs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02654  
**Abstract:** This study explores the quantisation-aware training (QAT) on time series Transformer models. We propose a novel adaptive quantisation scheme that dynamically selects between symmetric and asymmetric schemes during the QAT phase. Our approach demonstrates that matching the quantisation scheme to the real data distribution can reduce computational overhead while maintaining acceptable precision. Moreover, our approach is robust when applied to real-world data and mixed-precision quantisation, where most objects are quantised to 4 bits. Our findings inform model quantisation and deployment decisions while providing a foundation for advancing quantisation techniques. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** AGIR: Automating Cyber Threat Intelligence Reporting with Natural  Language Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02655  
**Abstract:** Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) reporting is pivotal in contemporary risk management strategies. As the volume of CTI reports continues to surge, the demand for automated tools to streamline report generation becomes increasingly apparent. While Natural Language Processing techniques have shown potential in handling text data, they often struggle to address the complexity of diverse data sources and their intricate interrelationships. Moreover, established paradigms like STIX have emerged as de facto standards within the CTI community, emphasizing the formal categorization of entities and relations to facilitate consistent data sharing. In this paper, we introduce AGIR (Automatic Generation of Intelligence Reports), a transformative Natural Language Generation tool specifically designed to address the pressing challenges in the realm of CTI reporting. AGIR's primary objective is to empower security analysts by automating the labor-intensive task of generating comprehensive intelligence reports from formal representations of entity graphs. AGIR utilizes a two-stage pipeline by combining the advantages of template-based approaches and the capabilities of Large Language Models such as ChatGPT. We evaluate AGIR's report generation capabilities both quantitatively and qualitatively. The generated reports accurately convey information expressed through formal language, achieving a high recall value (0.99) without introducing hallucination. Furthermore, we compare the fluency and utility of the reports with state-of-the-art approaches, showing how AGIR achieves higher scores in terms of Syntactic Log-Odds Ratio (SLOR) and through questionnaires. By using our tool, we estimate that the report writing time is reduced by more than 40%, therefore streamlining the CTI production of any organization and contributing to the automation of several CTI tasks. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** MedPrompt: Cross-Modal Prompting for Multi-Task Medical Image  Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02663  
**Abstract:** Cross-modal medical image translation is an essential task for synthesizing missing modality data for clinical diagnosis. However, current learning-based techniques have limitations in capturing cross-modal and global features, restricting their suitability to specific pairs of modalities. This lack of versatility undermines their practical usefulness, particularly considering that the missing modality may vary for different cases. In this study, we present MedPrompt, a multi-task framework that efficiently translates different modalities. Specifically, we propose the Self-adaptive Prompt Block, which dynamically guides the translation network towards distinct modalities. Within this framework, we introduce the Prompt Extraction Block and the Prompt Fusion Block to efficiently encode the cross-modal prompt. To enhance the extraction of global features across diverse modalities, we incorporate the Transformer model. Extensive experimental results involving five datasets and four pairs of modalities demonstrate that our proposed model achieves state-of-the-art visual quality and exhibits excellent generalization capability. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** On Memorization in Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02664  
**Abstract:** Due to their capacity to generate novel and high-quality samples, diffusion models have attracted significant research interest in recent years. Notably, the typical training objective of diffusion models, i.e., denoising score matching, has a closed-form optimal solution that can only generate training data replicating samples. This indicates that a memorization behavior is theoretically expected, which contradicts the common generalization ability of state-of-the-art diffusion models, and thus calls for a deeper understanding. Looking into this, we first observe that memorization behaviors tend to occur on smaller-sized datasets, which motivates our definition of effective model memorization (EMM), a metric measuring the maximum size of training data at which a learned diffusion model approximates its theoretical optimum. Then, we quantify the impact of the influential factors on these memorization behaviors in terms of EMM, focusing primarily on data distribution, model configuration, and training procedure. Besides comprehensive empirical results identifying the influential factors, we surprisingly find that conditioning training data on uninformative random labels can significantly trigger the memorization in diffusion models. Our study holds practical significance for diffusion model users and offers clues to theoretical research in deep generative models. Code is available at https://github.com/sail-sg/DiffMemorize. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Land-cover change detection using paired OpenStreetMap data and optical  high-resolution imagery via object-guided Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02674  
**Abstract:** Optical high-resolution imagery and OpenStreetMap (OSM) data are two important data sources for land-cover change detection. Previous studies in these two data sources focus on utilizing the information in OSM data to aid the change detection on multi-temporal optical high-resolution images. This paper pioneers the direct detection of land-cover changes utilizing paired OSM data and optical imagery, thereby broadening the horizons of change detection tasks to encompass more dynamic earth observations. To this end, we propose an object-guided Transformer (ObjFormer) architecture by naturally combining the prevalent object-based image analysis (OBIA) technique with the advanced vision Transformer architecture. The introduction of OBIA can significantly reduce the computational overhead and memory burden in the self-attention module. Specifically, the proposed ObjFormer has a hierarchical pseudo-siamese encoder consisting of object-guided self-attention modules that extract representative features of different levels from OSM data and optical images; a decoder consisting of object-guided cross-attention modules can progressively recover the land-cover changes from the extracted heterogeneous features. In addition to the basic supervised binary change detection task, this paper raises a new semi-supervised semantic change detection task that does not require any manually annotated land-cover labels of optical images to train semantic change detectors. Two lightweight semantic decoders are added to ObjFormer to accomplish this task efficiently. A converse cross-entropy loss is designed to fully utilize the negative samples, thereby contributing to the great performance improvement in this task. The first large-scale benchmark dataset containing 1,287 map-image pairs (1024$\times$ 1024 pixels for each sample) covering 40 regions on six continents ...(see the manuscript for the full abstract) 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Diffusion Generative Flow Samplers: Improving learning signals through  partial trajectory optimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02679  
**Abstract:** We tackle the problem of sampling from intractable high-dimensional density functions, a fundamental task that often appears in machine learning and statistics. We extend recent sampling-based approaches that leverage controlled stochastic processes to model approximate samples from these target densities. The main drawback of these approaches is that the training objective requires full trajectories to compute, resulting in sluggish credit assignment issues due to use of entire trajectories and a learning signal present only at the terminal time. In this work, we present Diffusion Generative Flow Samplers (DGFS), a sampling-based framework where the learning process can be tractably broken down into short partial trajectory segments, via parameterizing an additional "flow function". Our method takes inspiration from the theory developed for generative flow networks (GFlowNets), allowing us to make use of intermediate learning signals and benefit from off-policy exploration capabilities. Through a variety of challenging experiments, we demonstrate that DGFS results in more accurate estimates of the normalization constant than closely-related prior methods. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** USB-NeRF: Unrolling Shutter Bundle Adjusted Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02687  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has received much attention recently due to its impressive capability to represent 3D scene and synthesize novel view images. Existing works usually assume that the input images are captured by a global shutter camera. Thus, rolling shutter (RS) images cannot be trivially applied to an off-the-shelf NeRF algorithm for novel view synthesis. Rolling shutter effect would also affect the accuracy of the camera pose estimation (e.g. via COLMAP), which further prevents the success of NeRF algorithm with RS images. In this paper, we propose Unrolling Shutter Bundle Adjusted Neural Radiance Fields (USB-NeRF). USB-NeRF is able to correct rolling shutter distortions and recover accurate camera motion trajectory simultaneously under the framework of NeRF, by modeling the physical image formation process of a RS camera. Experimental results demonstrate that USB-NeRF achieves better performance compared to prior works, in terms of RS effect removal, novel view image synthesis as well as camera motion estimation. Furthermore, our algorithm can also be used to recover high-fidelity high frame-rate global shutter video from a sequence of RS images. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Robust Tracking for a 3D Diffusion Equation: Controlling Seismicity Rate  in Geothermal Reservoirs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02700  
**Abstract:** Deep Geothermal Energy has significant potential to meet the large-scale needs of the energy sector. However, the injection of fluids into the earth's crust, upon which it relies, can lead to the formation of new seismogenic faults or the reactivation of existing ones, thereby causing earthquakes. To date, no effective method exists for mitigating these human-induced earthquakes. In this study, we propose a novel approach based on control theory to address this issue. First, we model induced seismicity resulting from fluid injections in a geothermal reservoir using a diffusion equation in three dimensions. Then, we design a robust tracking control approach to force the seismicity rate to follow the desired references. In this way, the induced seismicity is minimized while ensuring fluid circulation for the needs of energy production. The designed control guarantees the stabilization of the error variable even in the presence of system uncertainties and unknown dynamics. Finally, we present simulations of a geothermal reservoir under different scenarios of intermittent energy demand to show the reliability and performance of the control approach, opening new perspectives for field experiments based on real-time regulators for the first time. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** ED-NeRF: Efficient Text-Guided Editing of 3D Scene using Latent Space  NeRF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02712  
**Abstract:** Recently, there has been a significant advancement in text-to-image diffusion models, leading to groundbreaking performance in 2D image generation. These advancements have been extended to 3D models, enabling the generation of novel 3D objects from textual descriptions. This has evolved into NeRF editing methods, which allow the manipulation of existing 3D objects through textual conditioning. However, existing NeRF editing techniques have faced limitations in their performance due to slow training speeds and the use of loss functions that do not adequately consider editing. To address this, here we present a novel 3D NeRF editing approach dubbed ED-NeRF by successfully embedding real-world scenes into the latent space of the latent diffusion model (LDM) through a unique refinement layer. This approach enables us to obtain a NeRF backbone that is not only faster but also more amenable to editing compared to traditional image space NeRF editing. Furthermore, we propose an improved loss function tailored for editing by migrating the delta denoising score (DDS) distillation loss, originally used in 2D image editing to the three-dimensional domain. This novel loss function surpasses the well-known score distillation sampling (SDS) loss in terms of suitability for editing purposes. Our experimental results demonstrate that ED-NeRF achieves faster editing speed while producing improved output quality compared to state-of-the-art 3D editing models. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** scHyena: Foundation Model for Full-Length Single-Cell RNA-Seq Analysis  in Brain  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02713  
**Abstract:** Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has made significant strides in unraveling the intricate cellular diversity within complex tissues. This is particularly critical in the brain, presenting a greater diversity of cell types than other tissue types, to gain a deeper understanding of brain function within various cellular contexts. However, analyzing scRNA-seq data remains a challenge due to inherent measurement noise stemming from dropout events and the limited utilization of extensive gene expression information. In this work, we introduce scHyena, a foundation model designed to address these challenges and enhance the accuracy of scRNA-seq analysis in the brain. Specifically, inspired by the recent Hyena operator, we design a novel Transformer architecture called singe-cell Hyena (scHyena) that is equipped with a linear adaptor layer, the positional encoding via gene-embedding, and a {bidirectional} Hyena operator. This enables us to process full-length scRNA-seq data without losing any information from the raw data. In particular, our model learns generalizable features of cells and genes through pre-training scHyena using the full length of scRNA-seq data. We demonstrate the superior performance of scHyena compared to other benchmark methods in downstream tasks, including cell type classification and scRNA-seq imputation. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Multi-resolution HuBERT: Multi-resolution Speech Self-Supervised  Learning with Masked Unit Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02720  
**Abstract:** Existing Self-Supervised Learning (SSL) models for speech typically process speech signals at a fixed resolution of 20 milliseconds. This approach overlooks the varying informational content present at different resolutions in speech signals. In contrast, this paper aims to incorporate multi-resolution information into speech self-supervised representation learning. We introduce a SSL model that leverages a hierarchical Transformer architecture, complemented by HuBERT-style masked prediction objectives, to process speech at multiple resolutions. Experimental results indicate that the proposed model not only achieves more efficient inference but also exhibits superior or comparable performance to the original HuBERT model over various tasks. Specifically, significant performance improvements over the original HuBERT have been observed in fine-tuning experiments on the LibriSpeech speech recognition benchmark as well as in evaluations using the Speech Universal PERformance Benchmark (SUPERB) and Multilingual SUPERB (ML-SUPERB). 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** uTalk: Bridging the Gap Between Humans and AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02739  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized various industries by harnessing their power to improve productivity and facilitate learning across different fields. One intriguing application involves combining LLMs with visual models to create a novel approach to Human-Computer Interaction. The core idea behind this system is to develop an interactive platform that allows the general public to leverage the capabilities of ChatGPT in their daily lives. This is achieved by integrating several technologies such as Whisper, ChatGPT, Microsoft Speech Services, and the state-of-the-art (SOTA) talking head system, SadTalker, resulting in uTalk, an intelligent AI system. Users will be able to converse with this portrait, receiving answers to whatever questions they have in mind. Additionally, they could use uTalk for content generation by providing an input and their image. This system is hosted on Streamlit, where the user will initially be requested to provide an image to serve as their AI assistant. Then, users could choose whether to have a conversation or generate content based on their preferences. Either way, it starts by providing an input, where a set of operations will be done, and the avatar will provide a precise response. The paper discusses how SadTalker is optimized to improve its running time by 27.72% based on 25FPS generated videos. In addition, the system's initial performance, uTalk, improved further by 9.8% after SadTalker was integrated and parallelized with Streamlit. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** SALSA: Semantically-Aware Latent Space Autoencoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02744  
**Abstract:** In deep learning for drug discovery, chemical data are often represented as simplified molecular-input line-entry system (SMILES) sequences which allow for straightforward implementation of natural language processing methodologies, one being the sequence-to-sequence autoencoder. However, we observe that training an autoencoder solely on SMILES is insufficient to learn molecular representations that are semantically meaningful, where semantics are defined by the structural (graph-to-graph) similarities between molecules. We demonstrate by example that autoencoders may map structurally similar molecules to distant codes, resulting in an incoherent latent space that does not respect the structural similarities between molecules. To address this shortcoming we propose Semantically-Aware Latent Space Autoencoder (SALSA), a transformer-autoencoder modified with a contrastive task, tailored specifically to learn graph-to-graph similarity between molecules. Formally, the contrastive objective is to map structurally similar molecules (separated by a single graph edit) to nearby codes in the latent space. To accomplish this, we generate a novel dataset comprised of sets of structurally similar molecules and opt for a supervised contrastive loss that is able to incorporate full sets of positive samples. We compare SALSA to its ablated counterparts, and show empirically that the composed training objective (reconstruction and contrastive task) leads to a higher quality latent space that is more 1) structurally-aware, 2) semantically continuous, and 3) property-aware. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** MUNCH: Modelling Unique 'N Controllable Heads  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02753  
**Abstract:** The automated generation of 3D human heads has been an intriguing and challenging task for computer vision researchers. Prevailing methods synthesize realistic avatars but with limited control over the diversity and quality of rendered outputs and suffer from limited correlation between shape and texture of the character. We propose a method that offers quality, diversity, control, and realism along with explainable network design, all desirable features to game-design artists in the domain. First, our proposed Geometry Generator identifies disentangled latent directions and generate novel and diverse samples. A Render Map Generator then learns to synthesize multiply high-fidelty physically-based render maps including Albedo, Glossiness, Specular, and Normals. For artists preferring fine-grained control over the output, we introduce a novel Color Transformer Model that allows semantic color control over generated maps. We also introduce quantifiable metrics called Uniqueness and Novelty and a combined metric to test the overall performance of our model. Demo for both shapes and textures can be found: https://munch-seven.vercel.app/. We will release our model along with the synthetic dataset. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** High order numerical methods based on quadratic spline collocation  method and averaged L1 scheme for the variable-order time fractional  mobile/immobile diffusion equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02775  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we consider the variable-order time fractional mobile/immobile diffusion (TF-MID) equation in two-dimensional spatial domain, where the fractional order $\alpha(t)$ satisfies $0<\alpha_{*}\leq \alpha(t)\leq \alpha^{*}<1$. We combine the quadratic spline collocation (QSC) method and the $L1^+$ formula to propose a QSC-$L1^+$ scheme. It can be proved that, the QSC-$L1^+$ scheme is unconditionally stable and convergent with $\mathcal{O}(\tau^{\min{\{3-\alpha^*-\alpha(0),2\}}} + \Delta x^{2}+\Delta y^{2})$, where $\tau$, $\Delta x$ and $\Delta y$ are the temporal and spatial step sizes, respectively. With some proper assumptions on $\alpha(t)$, the QSC-$L1^+$ scheme has second temporal convergence order even on the uniform mesh, without any restrictions on the solution of the equation. We further construct a novel alternating direction implicit (ADI) framework to develop an ADI-QSC-$L1^+$ scheme, which has the same unconditionally stability and convergence orders. In addition, a fast implementation for the ADI-QSC-$L1^+$ scheme based on the exponential-sum-approximation (ESA) technique is proposed. Moreover, we also introduce the optimal QSC method to improve the spatial convergence to fourth-order. Numerical experiments are attached to support the theoretical analysis, and to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed schemes. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** A UMLS-Augmented Framework for Improving Factuality in Large Language  Models within Healthcare  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02778  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated powerful text generation capabilities, bringing unprecedented innovation to the healthcare field. While LLMs hold immense promise for applications in healthcare, applying them to real clinical scenarios presents significant challenges, as these models may generate content that deviates from established medical facts and even exhibit potential biases. In our research, we develop an augmented LLM framework based on the Unified Medical Language System (UMLS), aiming to better serve the healthcare community. We employ LLaMa2-13b-chat and ChatGPT-3.5 as our benchmark models, and conduct automatic evaluations using the ROUGE Score and BERTScore on 104 questions from the LiveQA test set. Additionally, we establish criteria for physician-evaluation based on four dimensions: Factuality, Completeness, Readability and Relevancy. ChatGPT-3.5 is used for physician evaluation with 20 questions on the LiveQA test set. Multiple resident physicians conducted blind reviews to evaluate the generated content, and the results indicate that this framework effectively enhances the factuality, completeness, and relevance of generated content. Our research demonstrates the effectiveness of using UMLS-augmented LLMs and highlights the potential application value of LLMs in in medical question-answering. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Low Resource Summarization using Pre-trained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02790  
**Abstract:** With the advent of Deep Learning based Artificial Neural Networks models, Natural Language Processing (NLP) has witnessed significant improvements in textual data processing in terms of its efficiency and accuracy. However, the research is mostly restricted to high-resource languages such as English and low-resource languages still suffer from a lack of available resources in terms of training datasets as well as models with even baseline evaluation results. Considering the limited availability of resources for low-resource languages, we propose a methodology for adapting self-attentive transformer-based architecture models (mBERT, mT5) for low-resource summarization, supplemented by the construction of a new baseline dataset (76.5k article, summary pairs) in a low-resource language Urdu. Choosing news (a publicly available source) as the application domain has the potential to make the proposed methodology useful for reproducing in other languages with limited resources. Our adapted summarization model \textit{urT5} with up to 44.78\% reduction in size as compared to \textit{mT5} can capture contextual information of low resource language effectively with evaluation score (up to 46.35 ROUGE-1, 77 BERTScore) at par with state-of-the-art models in high resource language English \textit{(PEGASUS: 47.21, BART: 45.14 on XSUM Dataset)}. The proposed method provided a baseline approach towards extractive as well as abstractive summarization with competitive evaluation results in a limited resource setup. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Out-of-Distribution Detection by Leveraging Between-Layer Transformation  Smoothness  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02832  
**Abstract:** Effective OOD detection is crucial for reliable machine learning models, yet most current methods are limited in practical use due to requirements like access to training data or intervention in training. We present a novel method for detecting OOD data in deep neural networks based on transformation smoothness between intermediate layers of a network (BLOOD), which is applicable to pre-trained models without access to training data. BLOOD utilizes the tendency of between-layer representation transformations of in-distribution (ID) data to be smoother than the corresponding transformations of OOD data, a property that we also demonstrate empirically for Transformer networks. We evaluate BLOOD on several text classification tasks with Transformer networks and demonstrate that it outperforms methods with comparable resource requirements. Our analysis also suggests that when learning simpler tasks, OOD data transformations maintain their original sharpness, whereas sharpness increases with more complex tasks. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Delving into CLIP latent space for Video Anomaly Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02835  
**Abstract:** We tackle the complex problem of detecting and recognising anomalies in surveillance videos at the frame level, utilising only video-level supervision. We introduce the novel method AnomalyCLIP, the first to combine Large Language and Vision (LLV) models, such as CLIP, with multiple instance learning for joint video anomaly detection and classification. Our approach specifically involves manipulating the latent CLIP feature space to identify the normal event subspace, which in turn allows us to effectively learn text-driven directions for abnormal events. When anomalous frames are projected onto these directions, they exhibit a large feature magnitude if they belong to a particular class. We also introduce a computationally efficient Transformer architecture to model short- and long-term temporal dependencies between frames, ultimately producing the final anomaly score and class prediction probabilities. We compare AnomalyCLIP against state-of-the-art methods considering three major anomaly detection benchmarks, i.e. ShanghaiTech, UCF-Crime, and XD-Violence, and empirically show that it outperforms baselines in recognising video anomalies. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Magicremover: Tuning-free Text-guided Image inpainting with Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02848  
**Abstract:** Image inpainting aims to fill in the missing pixels with visually coherent and semantically plausible content. Despite the great progress brought from deep generative models, this task still suffers from i. the difficulties in large-scale realistic data collection and costly model training; and ii. the intrinsic limitations in the traditionally user-defined binary masks on objects with unclear boundaries or transparent texture. In this paper, we propose MagicRemover, a tuning-free method that leverages the powerful diffusion models for text-guided image inpainting. We introduce an attention guidance strategy to constrain the sampling process of diffusion models, enabling the erasing of instructed areas and the restoration of occluded content. We further propose a classifier optimization algorithm to facilitate the denoising stability within less sampling steps. Extensive comparisons are conducted among our MagicRemover and state-of-the-art methods including quantitative evaluation and user study, demonstrating the significant improvement of MagicRemover on high-quality image inpainting. We will release our code at https://github.com/exisas/Magicremover. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Use Your INSTINCT: INSTruction optimization usIng Neural bandits Coupled  with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02905  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable instruction-following capabilities and achieved impressive performances in various applications. However, the performances of LLMs depend heavily on the instructions given to them, which are typically manually tuned with substantial human efforts. Recent work has used the query-efficient Bayesian optimization (BO) algorithm to automatically optimize the instructions given to black-box LLMs. However, BO usually falls short when optimizing highly sophisticated (e.g., high-dimensional) objective functions, such as the functions mapping an instruction to the performance of an LLM. This is mainly due to the limited expressive power of the Gaussian process (GP) model which is used by BO as a surrogate to model the objective function. Meanwhile, it has been repeatedly shown that neural networks (NNs), especially pre-trained transformers, possess strong expressive power and can model highly complex functions. So, we adopt a neural bandit algorithm which replaces the GP in BO by an NN surrogate to optimize instructions for black-box LLMs. More importantly, the neural bandit algorithm allows us to naturally couple the NN surrogate with the hidden representation learned by a pre-trained transformer (i.e., an open-source LLM), which significantly boosts its performance. These motivate us to propose our INSTruction optimization usIng Neural bandits Coupled with Transformers} (INSTINCT) algorithm. We perform instruction optimization for ChatGPT and use extensive experiments to show that our INSTINCT consistently outperforms the existing methods in different tasks, such as in various instruction induction tasks and the task of improving the zero-shot chain-of-thought instruction. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Boosting Dermatoscopic Lesion Segmentation via Diffusion Models with  Visual and Textual Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02906  
**Abstract:** Image synthesis approaches, e.g., generative adversarial networks, have been popular as a form of data augmentation in medical image analysis tasks. It is primarily beneficial to overcome the shortage of publicly accessible data and associated quality annotations. However, the current techniques often lack control over the detailed contents in generated images, e.g., the type of disease patterns, the location of lesions, and attributes of the diagnosis. In this work, we adapt the latest advance in the generative model, i.e., the diffusion model, with the added control flow using lesion-specific visual and textual prompts for generating dermatoscopic images. We further demonstrate the advantage of our diffusion model-based framework over the classical generation models in both the image quality and boosting the segmentation performance on skin lesions. It can achieve a 9% increase in the SSIM image quality measure and an over 5% increase in Dice coefficients over the prior arts. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** DQ-LoRe: Dual Queries with Low Rank Approximation Re-ranking for  In-Context Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02954  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in natural language processing, primarily propelled by Large Language Models (LLMs), have showcased their remarkable capabilities grounded in in-context learning. A promising avenue for guiding LLMs in intricate reasoning tasks involves the utilization of intermediate reasoning steps within the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) paradigm. Nevertheless, the central challenge lies in the effective selection of exemplars for facilitating in-context learning. In this study, we introduce a framework that leverages Dual Queries and Low-rank approximation Re-ranking (DQ-LoRe) to automatically select exemplars for in-context learning. Dual Queries first query LLM to obtain LLM-generated knowledge such as CoT, then query the retriever to obtain the final exemplars via both question and the knowledge. Moreover, for the second query, LoRe employs dimensionality reduction techniques to refine exemplar selection, ensuring close alignment with the input question's knowledge. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that DQ-LoRe significantly outperforms prior state-of-the-art methods in the automatic selection of exemplars for GPT-4, enhancing performance from 92.5\% to 94.2\%. Our comprehensive analysis further reveals that DQ-LoRe consistently outperforms retrieval-based approaches in terms of both performance and adaptability, especially in scenarios characterized by distribution shifts. DQ-LoRe pushes the boundaries of in-context learning and opens up new avenues for addressing complex reasoning challenges. We will release the code soon. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Fast, Expressive SE$(n)$ Equivariant Networks through Weight-Sharing in  Position-Orientation Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02970  
**Abstract:** Based on the theory of homogeneous spaces we derive \textit{geometrically optimal edge attributes} to be used within the flexible message passing framework. We formalize the notion of weight sharing in convolutional networks as the sharing of message functions over point-pairs that should be treated equally. We define equivalence classes of point-pairs that are identical up to a transformation in the group and derive attributes that uniquely identify these classes. Weight sharing is then obtained by conditioning message functions on these attributes. As an application of the theory, we develop an efficient equivariant group convolutional network for processing 3D point clouds. The theory of homogeneous spaces tells us how to do group convolutions with feature maps over the homogeneous space of positions $\mathbb{R}^3$, position and orientations $\mathbb{R}^3 {\times} S^2$, and the group SE$(3)$ itself. Among these, $\mathbb{R}^3 {\times} S^2$ is an optimal choice due to the ability to represent directional information, which $\mathbb{R}^3$ methods cannot, and it significantly enhances computational efficiency compared to indexing features on the full SE$(3)$ group. We empirically support this claim by reaching state-of-the-art results -- in accuracy and speed -- on three different benchmarks: interatomic potential energy prediction, trajectory forecasting in N-body systems, and generating molecules via equivariant diffusion models. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** T$^3$Bench: Benchmarking Current Progress in Text-to-3D Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02977  
**Abstract:** Recent methods in text-to-3D leverage powerful pretrained diffusion models to optimize NeRF. Notably, these methods are able to produce high-quality 3D scenes without training on 3D data. Due to the open-ended nature of the task, most studies evaluate their results with subjective case studies and user experiments, thereby presenting a challenge in quantitatively addressing the question: How has current progress in Text-to-3D gone so far? In this paper, we introduce T$^3$Bench, the first comprehensive text-to-3D benchmark containing diverse text prompts of three increasing complexity levels that are specially designed for 3D generation. To assess both the subjective quality and the text alignment, we propose two automatic metrics based on multi-view images produced by the 3D contents. The quality metric combines multi-view text-image scores and regional convolution to detect quality and view inconsistency. The alignment metric uses multi-view captioning and Large Language Model (LLM) evaluation to measure text-3D consistency. Both metrics closely correlate with different dimensions of human judgments, providing a paradigm for efficiently evaluating text-to-3D models. The benchmarking results, shown in Fig. 1, reveal performance differences among six prevalent text-to-3D methods. Our analysis further highlights the common struggles for current methods on generating surroundings and multi-object scenes, as well as the bottleneck of leveraging 2D guidance for 3D generation. Our project page is available at: https://t3bench.com. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Probing Intersectional Biases in Vision-Language Models with  Counterfactual Examples  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02988  
**Abstract:** While vision-language models (VLMs) have achieved remarkable performance improvements recently, there is growing evidence that these models also posses harmful biases with respect to social attributes such as gender and race. Prior studies have primarily focused on probing such bias attributes individually while ignoring biases associated with intersections between social attributes. This could be due to the difficulty of collecting an exhaustive set of image-text pairs for various combinations of social attributes from existing datasets. To address this challenge, we employ text-to-image diffusion models to produce counterfactual examples for probing intserctional social biases at scale. Our approach utilizes Stable Diffusion with cross attention control to produce sets of counterfactual image-text pairs that are highly similar in their depiction of a subject (e.g., a given occupation) while differing only in their depiction of intersectional social attributes (e.g., race & gender). We conduct extensive experiments using our generated dataset which reveal the intersectional social biases present in state-of-the-art VLMs. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Kosmos-G: Generating Images in Context with Multimodal Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02992  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in text-to-image (T2I) and vision-language-to-image (VL2I) generation have made significant strides. However, the generation from generalized vision-language inputs, especially involving multiple images, remains under-explored. This paper presents Kosmos-G, a model that leverages the advanced perception capabilities of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) to tackle the aforementioned challenge. Our approach aligns the output space of MLLM with CLIP using the textual modality as an anchor and performs compositional instruction tuning on curated data. Kosmos-G demonstrates a unique capability of zero-shot multi-entity subject-driven generation. Notably, the score distillation instruction tuning requires no modifications to the image decoder. This allows for a seamless substitution of CLIP and effortless integration with a myriad of U-Net techniques ranging from fine-grained controls to personalized image decoder variants. We posit Kosmos-G as an initial attempt towards the goal of "image as a foreign language in image generation." 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Multiple Physics Pretraining for Physical Surrogate Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02994  
**Abstract:** We introduce multiple physics pretraining (MPP), an autoregressive task-agnostic pretraining approach for physical surrogate modeling. MPP involves training large surrogate models to predict the dynamics of multiple heterogeneous physical systems simultaneously by learning features that are broadly useful across diverse physical tasks. In order to learn effectively in this setting, we introduce a shared embedding and normalization strategy that projects the fields of multiple systems into a single shared embedding space. We validate the efficacy of our approach on both pretraining and downstream tasks over a broad fluid mechanics-oriented benchmark. We show that a single MPP-pretrained transformer is able to match or outperform task-specific baselines on all pretraining sub-tasks without the need for finetuning. For downstream tasks, we demonstrate that finetuning MPP-trained models results in more accurate predictions across multiple time-steps on new physics compared to training from scratch or finetuning pretrained video foundation models. We open-source our code and model weights trained at multiple scales for reproducibility and community experimentation. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** From Words to Watts: Benchmarking the Energy Costs of Large Language  Model Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03003  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have exploded in popularity due to their new generative capabilities that go far beyond prior state-of-the-art. These technologies are increasingly being leveraged in various domains such as law, finance, and medicine. However, these models carry significant computational challenges, especially the compute and energy costs required for inference. Inference energy costs already receive less attention than the energy costs of training LLMs -- despite how often these large models are called on to conduct inference in reality (e.g., ChatGPT). As these state-of-the-art LLMs see increasing usage and deployment in various domains, a better understanding of their resource utilization is crucial for cost-savings, scaling performance, efficient hardware usage, and optimal inference strategies. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Efficient-3DiM: Learning a Generalizable Single-image Novel-view  Synthesizer in One Day  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03015  
**Abstract:** The task of novel view synthesis aims to generate unseen perspectives of an object or scene from a limited set of input images. Nevertheless, synthesizing novel views from a single image still remains a significant challenge in the realm of computer vision. Previous approaches tackle this problem by adopting mesh prediction, multi-plain image construction, or more advanced techniques such as neural radiance fields. Recently, a pre-trained diffusion model that is specifically designed for 2D image synthesis has demonstrated its capability in producing photorealistic novel views, if sufficiently optimized on a 3D finetuning task. Although the fidelity and generalizability are greatly improved, training such a powerful diffusion model requires a vast volume of training data and model parameters, resulting in a notoriously long time and high computational costs. To tackle this issue, we propose Efficient-3DiM, a simple but effective framework to learn a single-image novel-view synthesizer. Motivated by our in-depth analysis of the inference process of diffusion models, we propose several pragmatic strategies to reduce the training overhead to a manageable scale, including a crafted timestep sampling strategy, a superior 3D feature extractor, and an enhanced training scheme. When combined, our framework is able to reduce the total training time from 10 days to less than 1 day, significantly accelerating the training process under the same computational platform (one instance with 8 Nvidia A100 GPUs). Comprehensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate the efficiency and generalizability of our proposed method. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Understanding In-Context Learning in Transformers and LLMs by Learning  to Learn Discrete Functions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03016  
**Abstract:** In order to understand the in-context learning phenomenon, recent works have adopted a stylized experimental framework and demonstrated that Transformers can learn gradient-based learning algorithms for various classes of real-valued functions. However, the limitations of Transformers in implementing learning algorithms, and their ability to learn other forms of algorithms are not well understood. Additionally, the degree to which these capabilities are confined to attention-based models is unclear. Furthermore, it remains to be seen whether the insights derived from these stylized settings can be extrapolated to pretrained Large Language Models (LLMs). In this work, we take a step towards answering these questions by demonstrating the following: (a) On a test-bed with a variety of Boolean function classes, we find that Transformers can nearly match the optimal learning algorithm for 'simpler' tasks, while their performance deteriorates on more 'complex' tasks. Additionally, we find that certain attention-free models perform (almost) identically to Transformers on a range of tasks. (b) When provided a teaching sequence, i.e. a set of examples that uniquely identifies a function in a class, we show that Transformers learn more sample-efficiently. Interestingly, our results show that Transformers can learn to implement two distinct algorithms to solve a single task, and can adaptively select the more sample-efficient algorithm depending on the sequence of in-context examples. (c) Lastly, we show that extant LLMs, e.g. LLaMA-2, GPT-4, can compete with nearest-neighbor baselines on prediction tasks that are guaranteed to not be in their training set. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Multimodal Question Answering for Unified Information Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03017  
**Abstract:** Multimodal information extraction (MIE) aims to extract structured information from unstructured multimedia content. Due to the diversity of tasks and settings, most current MIE models are task-specific and data-intensive, which limits their generalization to real-world scenarios with diverse task requirements and limited labeled data. To address these issues, we propose a novel multimodal question answering (MQA) framework to unify three MIE tasks by reformulating them into a unified span extraction and multi-choice QA pipeline. Extensive experiments on six datasets show that: 1) Our MQA framework consistently and significantly improves the performances of various off-the-shelf large multimodal models (LMM) on MIE tasks, compared to vanilla prompting. 2) In the zero-shot setting, MQA outperforms previous state-of-the-art baselines by a large margin. In addition, the effectiveness of our framework can successfully transfer to the few-shot setting, enhancing LMMs on a scale of 10B parameters to be competitive or outperform much larger language models such as ChatGPT and GPT-4. Our MQA framework can serve as a general principle of utilizing LMMs to better solve MIE and potentially other downstream multimodal tasks. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Consistent-1-to-3: Consistent Image to 3D View Synthesis via  Geometry-aware Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03020  
**Abstract:** Zero-shot novel view synthesis (NVS) from a single image is an essential problem in 3D object understanding. While recent approaches that leverage pre-trained generative models can synthesize high-quality novel views from in-the-wild inputs, they still struggle to maintain 3D consistency across different views. In this paper, we present Consistent-1-to-3, which is a generative framework that significantly mitigate this issue. Specifically, we decompose the NVS task into two stages: (i) transforming observed regions to a novel view, and (ii) hallucinating unseen regions. We design a scene representation transformer and view-conditioned diffusion model for performing these two stages respectively. Inside the models, to enforce 3D consistency, we propose to employ epipolor-guided attention to incorporate geometry constraints, and multi-view attention to better aggregate multi-view information. Finally, we design a hierarchy generation paradigm to generate long sequences of consistent views, allowing a full 360 observation of the provided object image. Qualitative and quantitative evaluation over multiple datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed mechanisms against state-of-the-art approaches. Our project page is at https://jianglongye.com/consistent123/ 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Decision ConvFormer: Local Filtering in MetaFormer is Sufficient for  Decision Making  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03022  
**Abstract:** The recent success of Transformer in natural language processing has sparked its use in various domains. In offline reinforcement learning (RL), Decision Transformer (DT) is emerging as a promising model based on Transformer. However, we discovered that the attention module of DT is not appropriate to capture the inherent local dependence pattern in trajectories of RL modeled as a Markov decision process. To overcome the limitations of DT, we propose a novel action sequence predictor, named Decision ConvFormer (DC), based on the architecture of MetaFormer, which is a general structure to process multiple entities in parallel and understand the interrelationship among the multiple entities. DC employs local convolution filtering as the token mixer and can effectively capture the inherent local associations of the RL dataset. In extensive experiments, DC achieved state-of-the-art performance across various standard RL benchmarks while requiring fewer resources. Furthermore, we show that DC better understands the underlying meaning in data and exhibits enhanced generalization capability. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Retrieval meets Long Context Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03025  
**Abstract:** Extending the context window of large language models (LLMs) is getting popular recently, while the solution of augmenting LLMs with retrieval has existed for years. The natural questions are: i) Retrieval-augmentation versus long context window, which one is better for downstream tasks? ii) Can both methods be combined to get the best of both worlds? In this work, we answer these questions by studying both solutions using two state-of-the-art pretrained LLMs, i.e., a proprietary 43B GPT and LLaMA2-70B. Perhaps surprisingly, we find that LLM with 4K context window using simple retrieval-augmentation at generation can achieve comparable performance to finetuned LLM with 16K context window via positional interpolation on long context tasks, while taking much less computation. More importantly, we demonstrate that retrieval can significantly improve the performance of LLMs regardless of their extended context window sizes. Our best model, retrieval-augmented LLaMA2-70B with 32K context window, outperforms GPT-3.5-turbo-16k and Davinci003 in terms of average score on seven long context tasks including question answering and query-based summarization. It also outperforms its non-retrieval LLaMA2-70B-32k baseline by a margin, while being much faster at generation. Our study provides general insights on the choice of retrieval-augmentation versus long context extension of LLM for practitioners. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Multi-Dimension-Embedding-Aware Modality Fusion Transformer for  Psychiatric Disorder Clasification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02690  
**Abstract:** Deep learning approaches, together with neuroimaging techniques, play an important role in psychiatric disorders classification. Previous studies on psychiatric disorders diagnosis mainly focus on using functional connectivity matrices of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) as input, which still needs to fully utilize the rich temporal information of the time series of rs-fMRI data. In this work, we proposed a multi-dimension-embedding-aware modality fusion transformer (MFFormer) for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder classification using rs-fMRI and T1 weighted structural MRI (T1w sMRI). Concretely, to fully utilize the temporal information of rs-fMRI and spatial information of sMRI, we constructed a deep learning architecture that takes as input 2D time series of rs-fMRI and 3D volumes T1w. Furthermore, to promote intra-modality attention and information fusion across different modalities, a fusion transformer module (FTM) is designed through extensive self-attention of hybrid feature maps of multi-modality. In addition, a dimension-up and dimension-down strategy is suggested to properly align feature maps of multi-dimensional from different modalities. Experimental results on our private and public OpenfMRI datasets show that our proposed MFFormer performs better than that using a single modality or multi-modality MRI on schizophrenia and bipolar disorder diagnosis. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** LROC-PANGU-GAN: Closing the Simulation Gap in Learning Crater  Segmentation with Planetary Simulators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02781  
**Abstract:** It is critical for probes landing on foreign planetary bodies to be able to robustly identify and avoid hazards - as, for example, steep cliffs or deep craters can pose significant risks to a probe's landing and operational success. Recent applications of deep learning to this problem show promising results. These models are, however, often learned with explicit supervision over annotated datasets. These human-labelled crater databases, such as from the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter Camera (LROC), may lack in consistency and quality, undermining model performance - as incomplete and/or inaccurate labels introduce noise into the supervisory signal, which encourages the model to learn incorrect associations and results in the model making unreliable predictions. Physics-based simulators, such as the Planet and Asteroid Natural Scene Generation Utility, have, in contrast, perfect ground truth, as the internal state that they use to render scenes is known with exactness. However, they introduce a serious simulation-to-real domain gap - because of fundamental differences between the simulated environment and the real-world arising from modelling assumptions, unaccounted for physical interactions, environmental variability, etc. Therefore, models trained on their outputs suffer when deployed in the face of realism they have not encountered in their training data distributions. In this paper, we therefore introduce a system to close this "realism" gap while retaining label fidelity. We train a CycleGAN model to synthesise LROC from Planet and Asteroid Natural Scene Generation Utility (PANGU) images. We show that these improve the training of a downstream crater segmentation network, with segmentation performance on a test set of real LROC images improved as compared to using only simulated PANGU images. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Scaling Laws for Associative Memories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.02984  
**Abstract:** Learning arguably involves the discovery and memorization of abstract rules. The aim of this paper is to study associative memory mechanisms. Our model is based on high-dimensional matrices consisting of outer products of embeddings, which relates to the inner layers of transformer language models. We derive precise scaling laws with respect to sample size and parameter size, and discuss the statistical efficiency of different estimators, including optimization-based algorithms. We provide extensive numerical experiments to validate and interpret theoretical results, including fine-grained visualizations of the stored memory associations. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** AstroCLIP: Cross-Modal Pre-Training for Astronomical Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03024  
**Abstract:** We present AstroCLIP, a strategy to facilitate the construction of astronomical foundation models that bridge the gap between diverse observational modalities. We demonstrate that a cross-modal contrastive learning approach between images and optical spectra of galaxies yields highly informative embeddings of both modalities. In particular, we apply our method on multi-band images and optical spectra from the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI), and show that: (1) these embeddings are well-aligned between modalities and can be used for accurate cross-modal searches, and (2) these embeddings encode valuable physical information about the galaxies -- in particular redshift and stellar mass -- that can be used to achieve competitive zero- and few- shot predictions without further finetuning. Additionally, in the process of developing our approach, we also construct a novel, transformer-based model and pretraining approach for processing galaxy spectra. 

