**ID:** 1  
**Title:** How Prevalent is Gender Bias in ChatGPT? -- Exploring German and English  ChatGPT Responses  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03031  
**Abstract:** With the introduction of ChatGPT, OpenAI made large language models (LLM) accessible to users with limited IT expertise. However, users with no background in natural language processing (NLP) might lack a proper understanding of LLMs. Thus the awareness of their inherent limitations, and therefore will take the systems' output at face value. In this paper, we systematically analyse prompts and the generated responses to identify possible problematic issues with a special focus on gender biases, which users need to be aware of when processing the system's output. We explore how ChatGPT reacts in English and German if prompted to answer from a female, male, or neutral perspective. In an in-depth investigation, we examine selected prompts and analyse to what extent responses differ if the system is prompted several times in an identical way. On this basis, we show that ChatGPT is indeed useful for helping non-IT users draft texts for their daily work. However, it is absolutely crucial to thoroughly check the system's responses for biases as well as for syntactic and grammatical mistakes. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach for Interactive Search with  Sentence-level Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03043  
**Abstract:** Interactive search can provide a better experience by incorporating interaction feedback from the users. This can significantly improve search accuracy as it helps avoid irrelevant information and captures the users' search intents. Existing state-of-the-art (SOTA) systems use reinforcement learning (RL) models to incorporate the interactions but focus on item-level feedback, ignoring the fine-grained information found in sentence-level feedback. Yet such feedback requires extensive RL action space exploration and large amounts of annotated data. This work addresses these challenges by proposing a new deep Q-learning (DQ) approach, DQrank. DQrank adapts BERT-based models, the SOTA in natural language processing, to select crucial sentences based on users' engagement and rank the items to obtain more satisfactory responses. We also propose two mechanisms to better explore optimal actions. DQrank further utilizes the experience replay mechanism in DQ to store the feedback sentences to obtain a better initial ranking performance. We validate the effectiveness of DQrank on three search datasets. The results show that DQRank performs at least 12% better than the previous SOTA RL approaches. We also conduct detailed ablation studies. The ablation results demonstrate that each model component can efficiently extract and accumulate long-term engagement effects from the users' sentence-level feedback. This structure offers new technologies with promised performance to construct a search system with sentence-level interaction. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** EcoAssistant: Using LLM Assistant More Affordably and Accurately  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03046  
**Abstract:** Today, users ask Large language models (LLMs) as assistants to answer queries that require external knowledge; they ask about the weather in a specific city, about stock prices, and even about where specific locations are within their neighborhood. These queries require the LLM to produce code that invokes external APIs to answer the user's question, yet LLMs rarely produce correct code on the first try, requiring iterative code refinement upon execution results. In addition, using LLM assistants to support high query volumes can be expensive. In this work, we contribute a framework, EcoAssistant, that enables LLMs to answer code-driven queries more affordably and accurately. EcoAssistant contains three components. First, it allows the LLM assistants to converse with an automatic code executor to iteratively refine code or to produce answers based on the execution results. Second, we use a hierarchy of LLM assistants, which attempts to answer the query with weaker, cheaper LLMs before backing off to stronger, expensive ones. Third, we retrieve solutions from past successful queries as in-context demonstrations to help subsequent queries. Empirically, we show that EcoAssistant offers distinct advantages for affordability and accuracy, surpassing GPT-4 by 10 points of success rate with less than 50% of GPT-4's cost. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** How FaR Are Large Language Models From Agents with Theory-of-Mind?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03051  
**Abstract:** "Thinking is for Doing." Humans can infer other people's mental states from observations--an ability called Theory-of-Mind (ToM)--and subsequently act pragmatically on those inferences. Existing question answering benchmarks such as ToMi ask models questions to make inferences about beliefs of characters in a story, but do not test whether models can then use these inferences to guide their actions. We propose a new evaluation paradigm for large language models (LLMs): Thinking for Doing (T4D), which requires models to connect inferences about others' mental states to actions in social scenarios. Experiments on T4D demonstrate that LLMs such as GPT-4 and PaLM 2 seemingly excel at tracking characters' beliefs in stories, but they struggle to translate this capability into strategic action. Our analysis reveals the core challenge for LLMs lies in identifying the implicit inferences about mental states without being explicitly asked about as in ToMi, that lead to choosing the correct action in T4D. To bridge this gap, we introduce a zero-shot prompting framework, Foresee and Reflect (FaR), which provides a reasoning structure that encourages LLMs to anticipate future challenges and reason about potential actions. FaR boosts GPT-4's performance from 50% to 71% on T4D, outperforming other prompting methods such as Chain-of-Thought and Self-Ask. Moreover, FaR generalizes to diverse out-of-distribution story structures and scenarios that also require ToM inferences to choose an action, consistently outperforming other methods including few-shot in-context learning. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Memoria: Hebbian Memory Architecture for Human-Like Sequential  Processing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03052  
**Abstract:** Transformers have demonstrated their success in various domains and tasks. However, Transformers struggle with long input sequences due to their limited capacity. While one solution is to increase input length, endlessly stretching the length is unrealistic. Furthermore, humans selectively remember and use only relevant information from inputs, unlike Transformers which process all raw data from start to end. We introduce Memoria, a general memory network that applies Hebbian theory which is a major theory explaining human memory formulation to enhance long-term dependencies in neural networks. Memoria stores and retrieves information called engram at multiple memory levels of working memory, short-term memory, and long-term memory, using connection weights that change according to Hebb's rule. Through experiments with popular Transformer-based models like BERT and GPT, we present that Memoria significantly improves the ability to consider long-term dependencies in various tasks. Results show that Memoria outperformed existing methodologies in sorting and language modeling, and long text classification. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Discovering Knowledge-Critical Subnetworks in Pretrained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03084  
**Abstract:** Pretrained language models (LMs) encode implicit representations of knowledge in their parameters. However, localizing these representations and disentangling them from each other remains an open problem. In this work, we investigate whether pretrained language models contain various knowledge-critical subnetworks: particular sparse computational subgraphs responsible for encoding specific knowledge the model has memorized. We propose a multi-objective differentiable weight masking scheme to discover these subnetworks and show that we can use them to precisely remove specific knowledge from models while minimizing adverse effects on the behavior of the original language model. We demonstrate our method on multiple GPT2 variants, uncovering highly sparse subnetworks (98%+) that are solely responsible for specific collections of relational knowledge. When these subnetworks are removed, the remaining network maintains most of its initial capacity (modeling language and other memorized relational knowledge) but struggles to express the removed knowledge, and suffers performance drops on examples needing this removed knowledge on downstream tasks after finetuning. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Large Language Model Cascades with Mixture of Thoughts Representations  for Cost-efficient Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03094  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 have exhibited remarkable performance in a variety of tasks, but this strong performance often comes with the high expense of using paid API services. In this paper, we are motivated to study building an LLM cascade to save the cost of using LLMs, particularly for performing reasoning (e.g., mathematical, causal) tasks. Our cascade pipeline follows the intuition that simpler questions can be addressed by a weaker but more affordable LLM, whereas only the challenging questions necessitate the stronger and more expensive LLM. To realize this decision-making, we consider the "answer consistency" of the weaker LLM as a signal of the question difficulty and propose several methods for the answer sampling and consistency checking, including one leveraging a mixture of two thought representations (i.e., Chain-of-Thought and Program-of-Thought). Through experiments on six reasoning benchmark datasets, with GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 being the weaker and stronger LLMs, respectively, we demonstrate that our proposed LLM cascades can achieve performance comparable to using solely the stronger LLM but require only 40% of its cost. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Dual Prompt Tuning for Domain-Aware Federated Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03103  
**Abstract:** Federated learning is a distributed machine learning paradigm that allows multiple clients to collaboratively train a shared model with their local data. Nonetheless, conventional federated learning algorithms often struggle to generalize well due to the ubiquitous domain shift across clients. In this work, we consider a challenging yet realistic federated learning scenario where the training data of each client originates from different domains. We address the challenges of domain shift by leveraging the technique of prompt learning, and propose a novel method called Federated Dual Prompt Tuning (Fed-DPT). Specifically, Fed-DPT employs a pre-trained vision-language model and then applies both visual and textual prompt tuning to facilitate domain adaptation over decentralized data. Extensive experiments of Fed-DPT demonstrate its significant effectiveness in domain-aware federated learning. With a pre-trained CLIP model (ViT-Base as image encoder), the proposed Fed-DPT attains 68.4% average accuracy over six domains in the DomainNet dataset, which improves the original CLIP by a large margin of 14.8%. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Reinforcement Learning-based Mixture of Vision Transformers for Video  Violence Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03108  
**Abstract:** Video violence recognition based on deep learning concerns accurate yet scalable human violence recognition. Currently, most state-of-the-art video violence recognition studies use CNN-based models to represent and categorize videos. However, recent studies suggest that pre-trained transformers are more accurate than CNN-based models on various video analysis benchmarks. Yet these models are not thoroughly evaluated for video violence recognition. This paper introduces a novel transformer-based Mixture of Experts (MoE) video violence recognition system. Through an intelligent combination of large vision transformers and efficient transformer architectures, the proposed system not only takes advantage of the vision transformer architecture but also reduces the cost of utilizing large vision transformers. The proposed architecture maximizes violence recognition system accuracy while actively reducing computational costs through a reinforcement learning-based router. The empirical results show the proposed MoE architecture's superiority over CNN-based models by achieving 92.4% accuracy on the RWF dataset. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Multi-modal Gaussian Process Variational Autoencoders for Neural and  Behavioral Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03111  
**Abstract:** Characterizing the relationship between neural population activity and behavioral data is a central goal of neuroscience. While latent variable models (LVMs) are successful in describing high-dimensional time-series data, they are typically only designed for a single type of data, making it difficult to identify structure shared across different experimental data modalities. Here, we address this shortcoming by proposing an unsupervised LVM which extracts temporally evolving shared and independent latents for distinct, simultaneously recorded experimental modalities. We do this by combining Gaussian Process Factor Analysis (GPFA), an interpretable LVM for neural spiking data with temporally smooth latent space, with Gaussian Process Variational Autoencoders (GP-VAEs), which similarly use a GP prior to characterize correlations in a latent space, but admit rich expressivity due to a deep neural network mapping to observations. We achieve interpretability in our model by partitioning latent variability into components that are either shared between or independent to each modality. We parameterize the latents of our model in the Fourier domain, and show improved latent identification using this approach over standard GP-VAE methods. We validate our model on simulated multi-modal data consisting of Poisson spike counts and MNIST images that scale and rotate smoothly over time. We show that the multi-modal GP-VAE (MM-GPVAE) is able to not only identify the shared and independent latent structure across modalities accurately, but provides good reconstructions of both images and neural rates on held-out trials. Finally, we demonstrate our framework on two real world multi-modal experimental settings: Drosophila whole-brain calcium imaging alongside tracked limb positions, and Manduca sexta spike train measurements from ten wing muscles as the animal tracks a visual stimulus. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Shielding the Unseen: Privacy Protection through Poisoning NeRF with  Spatial Deformation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03125  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce an innovative method of safeguarding user privacy against the generative capabilities of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) models. Our novel poisoning attack method induces changes to observed views that are imperceptible to the human eye, yet potent enough to disrupt NeRF's ability to accurately reconstruct a 3D scene. To achieve this, we devise a bi-level optimization algorithm incorporating a Projected Gradient Descent (PGD)-based spatial deformation. We extensively test our approach on two common NeRF benchmark datasets consisting of 29 real-world scenes with high-quality images. Our results compellingly demonstrate that our privacy-preserving method significantly impairs NeRF's performance across these benchmark datasets. Additionally, we show that our method is adaptable and versatile, functioning across various perturbation strengths and NeRF architectures. This work offers valuable insights into NeRF's vulnerabilities and emphasizes the need to account for such potential privacy risks when developing robust 3D scene reconstruction algorithms. Our study contributes to the larger conversation surrounding responsible AI and generative machine learning, aiming to protect user privacy and respect creative ownership in the digital age. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** MetaTool Benchmark: Deciding Whether to Use Tools and Which to Use  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03128  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have garnered significant attention due to their impressive natural language processing (NLP) capabilities. Recently, many studies have focused on the tool utilization ability of LLMs. They primarily investigated how LLMs effectively collaborate with given specific tools. However, in scenarios where LLMs serve as intelligent agents, as seen in applications like AutoGPT and MetaGPT, LLMs are expected to engage in intricate decision-making processes that involve deciding whether to employ a tool and selecting the most suitable tool(s) from a collection of available tools to fulfill user requests. Therefore, in this paper, we introduce MetaTool, a benchmark designed to evaluate whether LLMs have tool usage awareness and can correctly choose tools. Specifically, we create a dataset called ToolE within the benchmark. This dataset contains various types of user queries in the form of prompts that trigger LLMs to use tools, including both single-tool and multi-tool scenarios. Subsequently, we set the tasks for both tool usage awareness and tool selection. We define four subtasks from different perspectives in tool selection, including tool selection with similar choices, tool selection in specific scenarios, tool selection with possible reliability issues, and multi-tool selection. We conduct experiments involving nine popular LLMs and find that the majority of them still struggle to effectively select tools, highlighting the existing gaps between LLMs and genuine intelligent agents. However, through the error analysis, we found there is still significant room for improvement. Finally, we conclude with insights for tool developers that follow ChatGPT to provide detailed descriptions that can enhance the tool selection performance of LLMs. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** ViFiT: Reconstructing Vision Trajectories from IMU and Wi-Fi Fine Time  Measurements  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03140  
**Abstract:** Tracking subjects in videos is one of the most widely used functions in camera-based IoT applications such as security surveillance, smart city traffic safety enhancement, vehicle to pedestrian communication and so on. In the computer vision domain, tracking is usually achieved by first detecting subjects with bounding boxes, then associating detected bounding boxes across video frames. For many IoT systems, images captured by cameras are usually sent over the network to be processed at a different site that has more powerful computing resources than edge devices. However, sending entire frames through the network causes significant bandwidth consumption that may exceed the system bandwidth constraints. To tackle this problem, we propose ViFiT, a transformer-based model that reconstructs vision bounding box trajectories from phone data (IMU and Fine Time Measurements). It leverages a transformer ability of better modeling long-term time series data. ViFiT is evaluated on Vi-Fi Dataset, a large-scale multimodal dataset in 5 diverse real world scenes, including indoor and outdoor environments. To fill the gap of proper metrics of jointly capturing the system characteristics of both tracking quality and video bandwidth reduction, we propose a novel evaluation framework dubbed Minimum Required Frames (MRF) and Minimum Required Frames Ratio (MRFR). ViFiT achieves an MRFR of 0.65 that outperforms the state-of-the-art approach for cross-modal reconstruction in LSTM Encoder-Decoder architecture X-Translator of 0.98, resulting in a high frame reduction rate as 97.76%. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Neural architecture impact on identifying temporally extended  Reinforcement Learning tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03161  
**Abstract:** Inspired by recent developments in attention models for image classification and natural language processing, we present various Attention based architectures in reinforcement learning (RL) domain, capable of performing well on OpenAI Gym Atari-2600 game suite. In spite of the recent success of Deep Reinforcement learning techniques in various fields like robotics, gaming and healthcare, they suffer from a major drawback that neural networks are difficult to interpret. We try to get around this problem with the help of Attention based models. In Attention based models, extracting and overlaying of attention map onto images allows for direct observation of information used by agent to select actions and easier interpretation of logic behind the chosen actions. Our models in addition to playing well on gym-Atari environments, also provide insights on how agent perceives its environment. In addition, motivated by recent developments in attention based video-classification models using Vision Transformer, we come up with an architecture based on Vision Transformer, for image-based RL domain too. Compared to previous works in Vision Transformer, our model is faster to train and requires fewer computational resources. 3 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Robust and Interpretable Medical Image Classifiers via Concept  Bottleneck Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03182  
**Abstract:** Medical image classification is a critical problem for healthcare, with the potential to alleviate the workload of doctors and facilitate diagnoses of patients. However, two challenges arise when deploying deep learning models to real-world healthcare applications. First, neural models tend to learn spurious correlations instead of desired features, which could fall short when generalizing to new domains (e.g., patients with different ages). Second, these black-box models lack interpretability. When making diagnostic predictions, it is important to understand why a model makes a decision for trustworthy and safety considerations. In this paper, to address these two limitations, we propose a new paradigm to build robust and interpretable medical image classifiers with natural language concepts. Specifically, we first query clinical concepts from GPT-4, then transform latent image features into explicit concepts with a vision-language model. We systematically evaluate our method on eight medical image classification datasets to verify its effectiveness. On challenging datasets with strong confounding factors, our method can mitigate spurious correlations thus substantially outperform standard visual encoders and other baselines. Finally, we show how classification with a small number of concepts brings a level of interpretability for understanding model decisions through case studies in real medical data. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Can Language Models Employ the Socratic Method? Experiments with Code  Debugging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03210  
**Abstract:** When employing the Socratic method of teaching, instructors guide students toward solving a problem on their own rather than providing the solution directly. While this strategy can substantially improve learning outcomes, it is usually time-consuming and cognitively demanding. Automated Socratic conversational agents can augment human instruction and provide the necessary scale, however their development is hampered by the lack of suitable data for training and evaluation. In this paper, we introduce a manually created dataset of multi-turn Socratic advice that is aimed at helping a novice programmer fix buggy solutions to simple computational problems. The dataset is then used for benchmarking the Socratic debugging abilities of a number of language models, ranging from fine-tuning the instruction-based text-to-text transformer Flan-T5 to zero-shot and chain of thought prompting of the much larger GPT-4. The code and datasets are made freely available for research at the link below. https://github.com/taisazero/socratic-debugging-benchmark 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Learning Energy-Based Prior Model with Diffusion-Amortized MCMC  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03218  
**Abstract:** Latent space Energy-Based Models (EBMs), also known as energy-based priors, have drawn growing interests in the field of generative modeling due to its flexibility in the formulation and strong modeling power of the latent space. However, the common practice of learning latent space EBMs with non-convergent short-run MCMC for prior and posterior sampling is hindering the model from further progress; the degenerate MCMC sampling quality in practice often leads to degraded generation quality and instability in training, especially with highly multi-modal and/or high-dimensional target distributions. To remedy this sampling issue, in this paper we introduce a simple but effective diffusion-based amortization method for long-run MCMC sampling and develop a novel learning algorithm for the latent space EBM based on it. We provide theoretical evidence that the learned amortization of MCMC is a valid long-run MCMC sampler. Experiments on several image modeling benchmark datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our method compared with strong counterparts 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** TacoGFN: Target Conditioned GFlowNet for Structure-Based Drug Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03223  
**Abstract:** We seek to automate the generation of drug-like compounds conditioned to specific protein pocket targets. Most current methods approximate the protein-molecule distribution of a finite dataset and, therefore struggle to generate molecules with significant binding improvement over the training dataset. We instead frame the pocket-conditioned molecular generation task as an RL problem and develop TacoGFN, a target conditional Generative Flow Network model. Our method is explicitly encouraged to generate molecules with desired properties as opposed to fitting on a pre-existing data distribution. To this end, we develop transformer-based docking score prediction to speed up docking score computation and propose TacoGFN to explore molecule space efficiently. Furthermore, we incorporate several rounds of active learning where generated samples are queried using a docking oracle to improve the docking score prediction. This approach allows us to accurately explore as much of the molecule landscape as we can afford computationally. Empirically, molecules generated using TacoGFN and its variants significantly outperform all baseline methods across every property (Docking score, QED, SA, Lipinski), while being orders of magnitude faster. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Can Large Language Models be Good Path Planners? A Benchmark and  Investigation on Spatial-temporal Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03249  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success across a wide spectrum of tasks; however, they still face limitations in scenarios that demand long-term planning and spatial reasoning. To facilitate this line of research, in this work, we propose a new benchmark, termed $\textbf{P}$ath $\textbf{P}$lanning from $\textbf{N}$atural $\textbf{L}$anguage ($\textbf{PPNL}$). Our benchmark evaluates LLMs' spatial-temporal reasoning by formulating ''path planning'' tasks that require an LLM to navigate to target locations while avoiding obstacles and adhering to constraints. Leveraging this benchmark, we systematically investigate LLMs including GPT-4 via different few-shot prompting methodologies and BART and T5 of various sizes via fine-tuning. Our experimental results show the promise of few-shot GPT-4 in spatial reasoning, when it is prompted to reason and act interleavedly, although it still fails to make long-term temporal reasoning. In contrast, while fine-tuned LLMs achieved impressive results on in-distribution reasoning tasks, they struggled to generalize to larger environments or environments with more obstacles. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Molecule Design by Latent Prompt Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03253  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a latent prompt Transformer model for solving challenging optimization problems such as molecule design, where the goal is to find molecules with optimal values of a target chemical or biological property that can be computed by an existing software. Our proposed model consists of three components. (1) A latent vector whose prior distribution is modeled by a Unet transformation of a Gaussian white noise vector. (2) A molecule generation model that generates the string-based representation of molecule conditional on the latent vector in (1). We adopt the causal Transformer model that takes the latent vector in (1) as prompt. (3) A property prediction model that predicts the value of the target property of a molecule based on a non-linear regression on the latent vector in (1). We call the proposed model the latent prompt Transformer model. After initial training of the model on existing molecules and their property values, we then gradually shift the model distribution towards the region that supports desired values of the target property for the purpose of molecule design. Our experiments show that our proposed model achieves state of the art performances on several benchmark molecule design tasks. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** EfficientDM: Efficient Quantization-Aware Fine-Tuning of Low-Bit  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03270  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in image synthesis and related generative tasks. Nevertheless, their practicality for low-latency real-world applications is constrained by substantial computational costs and latency issues. Quantization is a dominant way to compress and accelerate diffusion models, where post-training quantization (PTQ) and quantization-aware training (QAT) are two main approaches, each bearing its own properties. While PTQ exhibits efficiency in terms of both time and data usage, it may lead to diminished performance in low bit-width. On the other hand, QAT can alleviate performance degradation but comes with substantial demands on computational and data resources. To capitalize on the advantages while avoiding their respective drawbacks, we introduce a data-free and parameter-efficient fine-tuning framework for low-bit diffusion models, dubbed EfficientDM, to achieve QAT-level performance with PTQ-like efficiency. Specifically, we propose a quantization-aware variant of the low-rank adapter (QALoRA) that can be merged with model weights and jointly quantized to low bit-width. The fine-tuning process distills the denoising capabilities of the full-precision model into its quantized counterpart, eliminating the requirement for training data. We also introduce scale-aware optimization and employ temporal learned step-size quantization to further enhance performance. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms previous PTQ-based diffusion models while maintaining similar time and data efficiency. Specifically, there is only a marginal 0.05 sFID increase when quantizing both weights and activations of LDM-4 to 4-bit on ImageNet 256x256. Compared to QAT-based methods, our EfficientDM also boasts a 16.2x faster quantization speed with comparable generation quality. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Ablation Study to Clarify the Mechanism of Object Segmentation in  Multi-Object Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03273  
**Abstract:** Multi-object representation learning aims to represent complex real-world visual input using the composition of multiple objects. Representation learning methods have often used unsupervised learning to segment an input image into individual objects and encode these objects into each latent vector. However, it is not clear how previous methods have achieved the appropriate segmentation of individual objects. Additionally, most of the previous methods regularize the latent vectors using a Variational Autoencoder (VAE). Therefore, it is not clear whether VAE regularization contributes to appropriate object segmentation. To elucidate the mechanism of object segmentation in multi-object representation learning, we conducted an ablation study on MONet, which is a typical method. MONet represents multiple objects using pairs that consist of an attention mask and the latent vector corresponding to the attention mask. Each latent vector is encoded from the input image and attention mask. Then, the component image and attention mask are decoded from each latent vector. The loss function of MONet consists of 1) the sum of reconstruction losses between the input image and decoded component image, 2) the VAE regularization loss of the latent vector, and 3) the reconstruction loss of the attention mask to explicitly encode shape information. We conducted an ablation study on these three loss functions to investigate the effect on segmentation performance. Our results showed that the VAE regularization loss did not affect segmentation performance and the others losses did affect it. Based on this result, we hypothesize that it is important to maximize the attention mask of the image region best represented by a single latent vector corresponding to the attention mask. We confirmed this hypothesis by evaluating a new loss function with the same mechanism as the hypothesis. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** A Formalism and Approach for Improving Robustness of Large Language  Models Using Risk-Adjusted Confidence Scores  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03283  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have achieved impressive milestones in natural language processing (NLP). Despite their impressive performance, the models are known to pose important risks. As these models are deployed in real-world applications, a systematic understanding of different risks posed by these models on tasks such as natural language inference (NLI), is much needed. In this paper, we define and formalize two distinct types of risk: decision risk and composite risk. We also propose a risk-centric evaluation framework, and four novel metrics, for assessing LLMs on these risks in both in-domain and out-of-domain settings. Finally, we propose a risk-adjusted calibration method called DwD for helping LLMs minimize these risks in an overall NLI architecture. Detailed experiments, using four NLI benchmarks, three baselines and two LLMs, including ChatGPT, show both the practical utility of the evaluation framework, and the efficacy of DwD in reducing decision and composite risk. For instance, when using DwD, an underlying LLM is able to address an extra 20.1% of low-risk inference tasks (but which the LLM erroneously deems high-risk without risk adjustment) and skip a further 19.8% of high-risk tasks, which would have been answered incorrectly. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** A New Dialogue Response Generation Agent for Large Language Models by  Asking Questions to Detect User's Intentions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03293  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have recently been applied to various NLP tasks due to its open-domain generation capabilities. However, there are two issues with applying LLMs to dialogue tasks. 1. During the dialogue process, users may have implicit intentions that might be overlooked by LLMs. Consequently, generated responses couldn't align with the user's intentions. 2. It is unlikely for LLMs to encompass all fields comprehensively. In certain specific domains, their knowledge may be incomplete, and LLMs cannot update the latest knowledge in real-time. To tackle these issues, we propose a framework~\emph{using LLM to \textbf{E}nhance dialogue response generation by asking questions to \textbf{D}etect user's \textbf{I}mplicit in\textbf{T}entions} (\textbf{EDIT}). Firstly, EDIT generates open questions related to the dialogue context as the potential user's intention; Then, EDIT answers those questions by interacting with LLMs and searching in domain-specific knowledge bases respectively, and use LLMs to choose the proper answers to questions as extra knowledge; Finally, EDIT enhances response generation by explicitly integrating those extra knowledge. Besides, previous question generation works only focus on asking questions with answers in context. In order to ask open questions, we construct a Context-Open-Question (COQ) dataset. On two task-oriented dialogue tasks (Wizard of Wikipedia and Holl-E), EDIT outperformed other LLMs. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Benchmarking Large Language Models As AI Research Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03302  
**Abstract:** Scientific experimentation involves an iterative process of creating hypotheses, designing experiments, running experiments, and analyzing the results. Can we build AI research agents to perform these long-horizon tasks? To take a step towards building and evaluating research agents on such open-ended decision-making tasks, we focus on the problem of machine learning engineering: given a task description and a dataset, build a high-performing model. In this paper, we propose MLAgentBench, a suite of ML tasks for benchmarking AI research agents. Agents can perform actions like reading/writing files, executing code, and inspecting outputs. With these actions, agents could run experiments, analyze the results, and modify the code of entire machine learning pipelines, such as data processing, architecture, training processes, etc. The benchmark then automatically evaluates the agent's performance objectively over various metrics related to performance and efficiency. We also design an LLM-based research agent to automatically perform experimentation loops in such an environment. Empirically, we find that a GPT-4-based research agent can feasibly build compelling ML models over many tasks in MLAgentBench, displaying highly interpretable plans and actions. However, the success rates vary considerably; they span from almost 90\% on well-established older datasets to as low as 10\% on recent Kaggle Challenges -- unavailable during the LLM model's pretraining -- and even 0\% on newer research challenges like BabyLM. Finally, we identify several key challenges for LLM-based research agents such as long-term planning and hallucination. Our code is released at https://github.com/snap-stanford/MLAgentBench. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Learning Personalized Story Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03304  
**Abstract:** While large language models (LLMs) have shown impressive results for more objective tasks such as QA and retrieval, it remains nontrivial to evaluate their performance on open-ended text generation for reasons including (1) data contamination; (2) multi-dimensional evaluation criteria; and (3) subjectiveness stemming from reviewers' personal preferences. To address such issues, we propose to model personalization in an uncontaminated open-ended generation assessment. We create two new datasets Per-MPST and Per-DOC for personalized story evaluation, by re-purposing existing datasets with proper anonymization and new personalized labels. We further develop a personalized story evaluation model PERSE to infer reviewer preferences and provide a personalized evaluation. Specifically, given a few exemplary reviews from a particular reviewer, PERSE predicts either a detailed review or fine-grained comparison in several aspects (such as interestingness and surprise) for that reviewer on a new text input. Experimental results show that PERSE outperforms GPT-4 by 15.8% on Kendall correlation of story ratings, and by 13.7% on pairwise preference prediction accuracy. Both datasets and code will be released at https://github.com/dqwang122/PerSE. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Deep Variational Multivariate Information Bottleneck -- A Framework for  Variational Losses  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03311  
**Abstract:** Variational dimensionality reduction methods are known for their high accuracy, generative abilities, and robustness. These methods have many theoretical justifications. Here we introduce a unifying principle rooted in information theory to rederive and generalize existing variational methods and design new ones. We base our framework on an interpretation of the multivariate information bottleneck, in which two Bayesian networks are traded off against one another. We interpret the first network as an encoder graph, which specifies what information to keep when compressing the data. We interpret the second network as a decoder graph, which specifies a generative model for the data. Using this framework, we rederive existing dimensionality reduction methods such as the deep variational information bottleneck (DVIB), beta variational auto-encoders (beta-VAE), and deep variational canonical correlation analysis (DVCCA). The framework naturally introduces a trade-off parameter between compression and reconstruction in the DVCCA family of algorithms, resulting in the new beta-DVCCA family. In addition, we derive a new variational dimensionality reduction method, deep variational symmetric informational bottleneck (DVSIB), which simultaneously compresses two variables to preserve information between their compressed representations. We implement all of these algorithms and evaluate their ability to produce shared low dimensional latent spaces on a modified noisy MNIST dataset. We show that algorithms that are better matched to the structure of the data (beta-DVCCA and DVSIB) produce better latent spaces as measured by classification accuracy and the dimensionality of the latent variables. We believe that this framework can be used to unify other multi-view representation learning algorithms. Additionally, it provides a straightforward framework for deriving problem-specific loss functions. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Investigating the Limitation of CLIP Models: The Worst-Performing  Categories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03324  
**Abstract:** Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) provides a foundation model by integrating natural language into visual concepts, enabling zero-shot recognition on downstream tasks. It is usually expected that satisfactory overall accuracy can be achieved across numerous domains through well-designed textual prompts. However, we found that their performance in the worst categories is significantly inferior to the overall performance. For example, on ImageNet, there are a total of 10 categories with class-wise accuracy as low as 0\%, even though the overall performance has achieved 64.1\%. This phenomenon reveals the potential risks associated with using CLIP models, particularly in risk-sensitive applications where specific categories hold significant importance. To address this issue, we investigate the alignment between the two modalities in the CLIP model and propose the Class-wise Matching Margin (\cmm) to measure the inference confusion. \cmm\ can effectively identify the worst-performing categories and estimate the potential performance of the candidate prompts. We further query large language models to enrich descriptions of worst-performing categories and build a weighted ensemble to highlight the efficient prompts. Experimental results clearly verify the effectiveness of our proposal, where the accuracy on the worst-10 categories on ImageNet is boosted to 5.2\%, without manual prompt engineering, laborious optimization, or access to labeled validation data. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Reformulating Domain Adaptation of Large Language Models as  Adapt-Retrieve-Revise  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03328  
**Abstract:** While large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 have recently demonstrated astonishing zero-shot capabilities in general domain tasks, they often generate content with hallucinations in specific domains such as Chinese law, hindering their application in these areas. This is typically due to the absence of training data that encompasses such a specific domain, preventing GPT-4 from acquiring in-domain knowledge. A pressing challenge is that it's not plausible to continue training LLMs of such scale on in-domain data. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Denoising Diffusion Step-aware Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03337  
**Abstract:** Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) have garnered popularity for data generation across various domains. However, a significant bottleneck is the necessity for whole-network computation during every step of the generative process, leading to high computational overheads. This paper presents a novel framework, Denoising Diffusion Step-aware Models (DDSM), to address this challenge. Unlike conventional approaches, DDSM employs a spectrum of neural networks whose sizes are adapted according to the importance of each generative step, as determined through evolutionary search. This step-wise network variation effectively circumvents redundant computational efforts, particularly in less critical steps, thereby enhancing the efficiency of the diffusion model. Furthermore, the step-aware design can be seamlessly integrated with other efficiency-geared diffusion models such as DDIMs and latent diffusion, thus broadening the scope of computational savings. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that DDSM achieves computational savings of 49% for CIFAR-10, 61% for CelebA-HQ, 59% for LSUN-bedroom, 71% for AFHQ, and 76% for ImageNet, all without compromising the generation quality. Our code and models will be publicly available. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Realistic Speech-to-Face Generation with Speech-Conditioned Latent  Diffusion Model with Face Prior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03363  
**Abstract:** Speech-to-face generation is an intriguing area of research that focuses on generating realistic facial images based on a speaker's audio speech. However, state-of-the-art methods employing GAN-based architectures lack stability and cannot generate realistic face images. To fill this gap, we propose a novel speech-to-face generation framework, which leverages a Speech-Conditioned Latent Diffusion Model, called SCLDM. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to harness the exceptional modeling capabilities of diffusion models for speech-to-face generation. Preserving the shared identity information between speech and face is crucial in generating realistic results. Therefore, we employ contrastive pre-training for both the speech encoder and the face encoder. This pre-training strategy facilitates effective alignment between the attributes of speech, such as age and gender, and the corresponding facial characteristics in the face images. Furthermore, we tackle the challenge posed by excessive diversity in the synthesis process caused by the diffusion model. To overcome this challenge, we introduce the concept of residuals by integrating a statistical face prior to the diffusion process. This addition helps to eliminate the shared component across the faces and enhances the subtle variations captured by the speech condition. Extensive quantitative, qualitative, and user study experiments demonstrate that our method can produce more realistic face images while preserving the identity of the speaker better than state-of-the-art methods. Highlighting the notable enhancements, our method demonstrates significant gains in all metrics on the AVSpeech dataset and Voxceleb dataset, particularly noteworthy are the improvements of 32.17 and 32.72 on the cosine distance metric for the two datasets, respectively. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Evaluating Hallucinations in Chinese Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03368  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we establish a benchmark named HalluQA (Chinese Hallucination Question-Answering) to measure the hallucination phenomenon in Chinese large language models. HalluQA contains 450 meticulously designed adversarial questions, spanning multiple domains, and takes into account Chinese historical culture, customs, and social phenomena. During the construction of HalluQA, we consider two types of hallucinations: imitative falsehoods and factual errors, and we construct adversarial samples based on GLM-130B and ChatGPT. For evaluation, we design an automated evaluation method using GPT-4 to judge whether a model output is hallucinated. We conduct extensive experiments on 24 large language models, including ERNIE-Bot, Baichuan2, ChatGLM, Qwen, SparkDesk and etc. Out of the 24 models, 18 achieved non-hallucination rates lower than 50%. This indicates that HalluQA is highly challenging. We analyze the primary types of hallucinations in different types of models and their causes. Additionally, we discuss which types of hallucinations should be prioritized for different types of models. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Procedural Text Mining with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03376  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in the field of Natural Language Processing, particularly the development of large-scale language models that are pretrained on vast amounts of knowledge, are creating novel opportunities within the realm of Knowledge Engineering. In this paper, we investigate the usage of large language models (LLMs) in both zero-shot and in-context learning settings to tackle the problem of extracting procedures from unstructured PDF text in an incremental question-answering fashion. In particular, we leverage the current state-of-the-art GPT-4 (Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4) model, accompanied by two variations of in-context learning that involve an ontology with definitions of procedures and steps and a limited number of samples of few-shot learning. The findings highlight both the promise of this approach and the value of the in-context learning customisations. These modifications have the potential to significantly address the challenge of obtaining sufficient training data, a hurdle often encountered in deep learning-based Natural Language Processing techniques for procedure extraction. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** ACT-Net: Anchor-context Action Detection in Surgery Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03377  
**Abstract:** Recognition and localization of surgical detailed actions is an essential component of developing a context-aware decision support system. However, most existing detection algorithms fail to provide high-accuracy action classes even having their locations, as they do not consider the surgery procedure's regularity in the whole video. This limitation hinders their application. Moreover, implementing the predictions in clinical applications seriously needs to convey model confidence to earn entrustment, which is unexplored in surgical action prediction. In this paper, to accurately detect fine-grained actions that happen at every moment, we propose an anchor-context action detection network (ACTNet), including an anchor-context detection (ACD) module and a class conditional diffusion (CCD) module, to answer the following questions: 1) where the actions happen; 2) what actions are; 3) how confidence predictions are. Specifically, the proposed ACD module spatially and temporally highlights the regions interacting with the extracted anchor in surgery video, which outputs action location and its class distribution based on anchor-context interactions. Considering the full distribution of action classes in videos, the CCD module adopts a denoising diffusion-based generative model conditioned on our ACD estimator to further reconstruct accurately the action predictions. Moreover, we utilize the stochastic nature of the diffusion model outputs to access model confidence for each prediction. Our method reports the state-of-the-art performance, with improvements of 4.0% mAP against baseline on the surgical video dataset. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** FreeReg: Image-to-Point Cloud Registration Leveraging Pretrained  Diffusion Models and Monocular Depth Estimators  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03420  
**Abstract:** Matching cross-modality features between images and point clouds is a fundamental problem for image-to-point cloud registration. However, due to the modality difference between images and points, it is difficult to learn robust and discriminative cross-modality features by existing metric learning methods for feature matching. Instead of applying metric learning on cross-modality data, we propose to unify the modality between images and point clouds by pretrained large-scale models first, and then establish robust correspondence within the same modality. We show that the intermediate features, called diffusion features, extracted by depth-to-image diffusion models are semantically consistent between images and point clouds, which enables the building of coarse but robust cross-modality correspondences. We further extract geometric features on depth maps produced by the monocular depth estimator. By matching such geometric features, we significantly improve the accuracy of the coarse correspondences produced by diffusion features. Extensive experiments demonstrate that without any task-specific training, direct utilization of both features produces accurate image-to-point cloud registration. On three public indoor and outdoor benchmarks, the proposed method averagely achieves a 20.6 percent improvement in Inlier Ratio, a three-fold higher Inlier Number, and a 48.6 percent improvement in Registration Recall than existing state-of-the-arts. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Neural Language Model Pruning for Automatic Speech Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03424  
**Abstract:** We study model pruning methods applied to Transformer-based neural network language models for automatic speech recognition. We explore three aspects of the pruning frame work, namely criterion, method and scheduler, analyzing their contribution in terms of accuracy and inference speed. To the best of our knowledge, such in-depth analyses on large-scale recognition systems has not been reported in the literature. In addition, we propose a variant of low-rank approximation suitable for incrementally compressing models, and delivering multiple models with varied target sizes. Among other results, we show that a) data-driven pruning outperforms magnitude-driven in several scenarios; b) incremental pruning achieves higher accuracy compared to one-shot pruning, especially when targeting smaller sizes; and c) low-rank approximation presents the best trade-off between size reduction and inference speed-up for moderate compression. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Multi-Resolution Audio-Visual Feature Fusion for Temporal Action  Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03456  
**Abstract:** Temporal Action Localization (TAL) aims to identify actions' start, end, and class labels in untrimmed videos. While recent advancements using transformer networks and Feature Pyramid Networks (FPN) have enhanced visual feature recognition in TAL tasks, less progress has been made in the integration of audio features into such frameworks. This paper introduces the Multi-Resolution Audio-Visual Feature Fusion (MRAV-FF), an innovative method to merge audio-visual data across different temporal resolutions. Central to our approach is a hierarchical gated cross-attention mechanism, which discerningly weighs the importance of audio information at diverse temporal scales. Such a technique not only refines the precision of regression boundaries but also bolsters classification confidence. Importantly, MRAV-FF is versatile, making it compatible with existing FPN TAL architectures and offering a significant enhancement in performance when audio data is available. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Personalized Transformer-based Ranking for e-Commerce at Yandex  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03481  
**Abstract:** Personalizing the user experience with high-quality recommendations based on user activities is vital for e-commerce platforms. This is particularly important in scenarios where the user's intent is not explicit, such as on the homepage. Recently, personalized embedding-based systems have significantly improved the quality of recommendations and search results in the e-commerce domain. However, most of these works focus on enhancing the retrieval stage. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** TPDR: A Novel Two-Step Transformer-based Product and Class Description  Match and Retrieval Method  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03491  
**Abstract:** There is a niche of companies responsible for intermediating the purchase of large batches of varied products for other companies, for which the main challenge is to perform product description standardization, i.e., matching an item described by a client with a product described in a catalog. The problem is complex since the client's product description may be: (1) potentially noisy; (2) short and uninformative (e.g., missing information about model and size); and (3) cross-language. In this paper, we formalize this problem as a ranking task: given an initial client product specification (query), return the most appropriate standardized descriptions (response). In this paper, we propose TPDR, a two-step Transformer-based Product and Class Description Retrieval method that is able to explore the semantic correspondence between IS and SD, by exploiting attention mechanisms and contrastive learning. First, TPDR employs the transformers as two encoders sharing the embedding vector space: one for encoding the IS and another for the SD, in which corresponding pairs (IS, SD) must be close in the vector space. Closeness is further enforced by a contrastive learning mechanism leveraging a specialized loss function. TPDR also exploits a (second) re-ranking step based on syntactic features that are very important for the exact matching (model, dimension) of certain products that may have been neglected by the transformers. To evaluate our proposal, we consider 11 datasets from a real company, covering different application contexts. Our solution was able to retrieve the correct standardized product before the 5th ranking position in 71% of the cases and its correct category in the first position in 80% of the situations. Moreover, the effectiveness gains over purely syntactic or semantic baselines reach up to 3.7 times, solving cases that none of the approaches in isolation can do by themselves. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Deep Generative Models of Music Expectation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03500  
**Abstract:** A prominent theory of affective response to music revolves around the concepts of surprisal and expectation. In prior work, this idea has been operationalized in the form of probabilistic models of music which allow for precise computation of song (or note-by-note) probabilities, conditioned on a 'training set' of prior musical or cultural experiences. To date, however, these models have been limited to compute exact probabilities through hand-crafted features or restricted to linear models which are likely not sufficient to represent the complex conditional distributions present in music. In this work, we propose to use modern deep probabilistic generative models in the form of a Diffusion Model to compute an approximate likelihood of a musical input sequence. Unlike prior work, such a generative model parameterized by deep neural networks is able to learn complex non-linear features directly from a training set itself. In doing so, we expect to find that such models are able to more accurately represent the 'surprisal' of music for human listeners. From the literature, it is known that there is an inverted U-shaped relationship between surprisal and the amount human subjects 'like' a given song. In this work we show that pre-trained diffusion models indeed yield musical surprisal values which exhibit a negative quadratic relationship with measured subject 'liking' ratings, and that the quality of this relationship is competitive with state of the art methods such as IDyOM. We therefore present this model a preliminary step in developing modern deep generative models of music expectation and subjective likability. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Kandinsky: an Improved Text-to-Image Synthesis with Image Prior and  Latent Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03502  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image generation is a significant domain in modern computer vision and has achieved substantial improvements through the evolution of generative architectures. Among these, there are diffusion-based models that have demonstrated essential quality enhancements. These models are generally split into two categories: pixel-level and latent-level approaches. We present Kandinsky1, a novel exploration of latent diffusion architecture, combining the principles of the image prior models with latent diffusion techniques. The image prior model is trained separately to map text embeddings to image embeddings of CLIP. Another distinct feature of the proposed model is the modified MoVQ implementation, which serves as the image autoencoder component. Overall, the designed model contains 3.3B parameters. We also deployed a user-friendly demo system that supports diverse generative modes such as text-to-image generation, image fusion, text and image fusion, image variations generation, and text-guided inpainting/outpainting. Additionally, we released the source code and checkpoints for the Kandinsky models. Experimental evaluations demonstrate a FID score of 8.03 on the COCO-30K dataset, marking our model as the top open-source performer in terms of measurable image generation quality. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Exploring DINO: Emergent Properties and Limitations for Synthetic  Aperture Radar Imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03513  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised learning (SSL) models have recently demonstrated remarkable performance across various tasks, including image segmentation. This study delves into the emergent characteristics of the Self-Distillation with No Labels (DINO) algorithm and its application to Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imagery. We pre-train a vision transformer (ViT)-based DINO model using unlabeled SAR data, and later fine-tune the model to predict high-resolution land cover maps. We rigorously evaluate the utility of attention maps generated by the ViT backbone, and compare them with the model's token embedding space. We observe a small improvement in model performance with pre-training compared to training from scratch, and discuss the limitations and opportunities of SSL for remote sensing and land cover segmentation. Beyond small performance increases, we show that ViT attention maps hold great intrinsic value for remote sensing, and could provide useful inputs to other algorithms. With this, our work lays the ground-work for bigger and better SSL models for Earth Observation. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** PrototypeFormer: Learning to Explore Prototype Relationships for  Few-shot Image Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03517  
**Abstract:** Few-shot image classification has received considerable attention for addressing the challenge of poor classification performance with limited samples in novel classes. However, numerous studies have employed sophisticated learning strategies and diversified feature extraction methods to address this issue. In this paper, we propose our method called PrototypeFormer, which aims to significantly advance traditional few-shot image classification approaches by exploring prototype relationships. Specifically, we utilize a transformer architecture to build a prototype extraction module, aiming to extract class representations that are more discriminative for few-shot classification. Additionally, during the model training process, we propose a contrastive learning-based optimization approach to optimize prototype features in few-shot learning scenarios. Despite its simplicity, the method performs remarkably well, with no bells and whistles. We have experimented with our approach on several popular few-shot image classification benchmark datasets, which shows that our method outperforms all current state-of-the-art methods. In particular, our method achieves 97.07% and 90.88% on 5-way 5-shot and 5-way 1-shot tasks of miniImageNet, which surpasses the state-of-the-art results with accuracy of 7.27% and 8.72%, respectively. The code will be released later. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** BID-NeRF: RGB-D image pose estimation with inverted Neural Radiance  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03563  
**Abstract:** We aim to improve the Inverted Neural Radiance Fields (iNeRF) algorithm which defines the image pose estimation problem as a NeRF based iterative linear optimization. NeRFs are novel neural space representation models that can synthesize photorealistic novel views of real-world scenes or objects. Our contributions are as follows: we extend the localization optimization objective with a depth-based loss function, we introduce a multi-image based loss function where a sequence of images with known relative poses are used without increasing the computational complexity, we omit hierarchical sampling during volumetric rendering, meaning only the coarse model is used for pose estimation, and we how that by extending the sampling interval convergence can be achieved even or higher initial pose estimate errors. With the proposed modifications the convergence speed is significantly improved, and the basin of convergence is substantially extended. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Ctrl-Room: Controllable Text-to-3D Room Meshes Generation with Layout  Constraints  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03602  
**Abstract:** Text-driven 3D indoor scene generation could be useful for gaming, film industry, and AR/VR applications. However, existing methods cannot faithfully capture the room layout, nor do they allow flexible editing of individual objects in the room. To address these problems, we present Ctrl-Room, which is able to generate convincing 3D rooms with designer-style layouts and high-fidelity textures from just a text prompt. Moreover, Ctrl-Room enables versatile interactive editing operations such as resizing or moving individual furniture items. Our key insight is to separate the modeling of layouts and appearance. %how to model the room that takes into account both scene texture and geometry at the same time. To this end, Our proposed method consists of two stages, a `Layout Generation Stage' and an `Appearance Generation Stage'. The `Layout Generation Stage' trains a text-conditional diffusion model to learn the layout distribution with our holistic scene code parameterization. Next, the `Appearance Generation Stage' employs a fine-tuned ControlNet to produce a vivid panoramic image of the room guided by the 3D scene layout and text prompt. In this way, we achieve a high-quality 3D room with convincing layouts and lively textures. Benefiting from the scene code parameterization, we can easily edit the generated room model through our mask-guided editing module, without expensive editing-specific training. Extensive experiments on the Structured3D dataset demonstrate that our method outperforms existing methods in producing more reasonable, view-consistent, and editable 3D rooms from natural language prompts. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Adversarial Machine Learning for Social Good: Reframing the Adversary as  an Ally  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03614  
**Abstract:** Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have been the driving force behind many of the recent advances in machine learning. However, research has shown that DNNs are vulnerable to adversarial examples -- input samples that have been perturbed to force DNN-based models to make errors. As a result, Adversarial Machine Learning (AdvML) has gained a lot of attention, and researchers have investigated these vulnerabilities in various settings and modalities. In addition, DNNs have also been found to incorporate embedded bias and often produce unexplainable predictions, which can result in anti-social AI applications. The emergence of new AI technologies that leverage Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, increases the risk of producing anti-social applications at scale. AdvML for Social Good (AdvML4G) is an emerging field that repurposes the AdvML bug to invent pro-social applications. Regulators, practitioners, and researchers should collaborate to encourage the development of pro-social applications and hinder the development of anti-social ones. In this work, we provide the first comprehensive review of the emerging field of AdvML4G. This paper encompasses a taxonomy that highlights the emergence of AdvML4G, a discussion of the differences and similarities between AdvML4G and AdvML, a taxonomy covering social good-related concepts and aspects, an exploration of the motivations behind the emergence of AdvML4G at the intersection of ML4G and AdvML, and an extensive summary of the works that utilize AdvML4G as an auxiliary tool for innovating pro-social applications. Finally, we elaborate upon various challenges and open research issues that require significant attention from the research community. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Deep surrogate model for learning Green's function associated with  linear reaction-diffusion operator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03642  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a deep surrogate model for learning the Green's function associated with the reaction-diffusion operator in rectangular domain. The U-Net architecture is utilized to effectively capture the mapping from source to solution of the target partial differential equations (PDEs). To enable efficient training of the model without relying on labeled data, we propose a novel loss function that draws inspiration from traditional numerical methods used for solving PDEs. Furthermore, a hard encoding mechanism is employed to ensure that the predicted Green's function is perfectly matched with the boundary conditions. Based on the learned Green's function from the trained deep surrogate model, a fast solver is developed to solve the corresponding PDEs with different sources and boundary conditions. Various numerical examples are also provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Visual inspection for illicit items in X-ray images using Deep Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03658  
**Abstract:** Automated detection of contraband items in X-ray images can significantly increase public safety, by enhancing the productivity and alleviating the mental load of security officers in airports, subways, customs/post offices, etc. The large volume and high throughput of passengers, mailed parcels, etc., during rush hours practically make it a Big Data problem. Modern computer vision algorithms relying on Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have proven capable of undertaking this task even under resource-constrained and embedded execution scenarios, e.g., as is the case with fast, single-stage object detectors. However, no comparative experimental assessment of the various relevant DNN components/methods has been performed under a common evaluation protocol, which means that reliable cross-method comparisons are missing. This paper presents exactly such a comparative assessment, utilizing a public relevant dataset and a well-defined methodology for selecting the specific DNN components/modules that are being evaluated. The results indicate the superiority of Transformer detectors, the obsolete nature of auxiliary neural modules that have been developed in the past few years for security applications and the efficiency of the CSP-DarkNet backbone CNN. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Regress Before Construct: Regress Autoencoder for Point Cloud  Self-supervised Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03670  
**Abstract:** Masked Autoencoders (MAE) have demonstrated promising performance in self-supervised learning for both 2D and 3D computer vision. Nevertheless, existing MAE-based methods still have certain drawbacks. Firstly, the functional decoupling between the encoder and decoder is incomplete, which limits the encoder's representation learning ability. Secondly, downstream tasks solely utilize the encoder, failing to fully leverage the knowledge acquired through the encoder-decoder architecture in the pre-text task. In this paper, we propose Point Regress AutoEncoder (Point-RAE), a new scheme for regressive autoencoders for point cloud self-supervised learning. The proposed method decouples functions between the decoder and the encoder by introducing a mask regressor, which predicts the masked patch representation from the visible patch representation encoded by the encoder and the decoder reconstructs the target from the predicted masked patch representation. By doing so, we minimize the impact of decoder updates on the representation space of the encoder. Moreover, we introduce an alignment constraint to ensure that the representations for masked patches, predicted from the encoded representations of visible patches, are aligned with the masked patch presentations computed from the encoder. To make full use of the knowledge learned in the pre-training stage, we design a new finetune mode for the proposed Point-RAE. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach is efficient during pre-training and generalizes well on various downstream tasks. Specifically, our pre-trained models achieve a high accuracy of \textbf{90.28\%} on the ScanObjectNN hardest split and \textbf{94.1\%} accuracy on ModelNet40, surpassing all the other self-supervised learning methods. Our code and pretrained model are public available at: \url{https://github.com/liuyyy111/Point-RAE}. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** SmoothLLM: Defending Large Language Models Against Jailbreaking Attacks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03684  
**Abstract:** Despite efforts to align large language models (LLMs) with human values, widely-used LLMs such as GPT, Llama, Claude, and PaLM are susceptible to jailbreaking attacks, wherein an adversary fools a targeted LLM into generating objectionable content. To address this vulnerability, we propose SmoothLLM, the first algorithm designed to mitigate jailbreaking attacks on LLMs. Based on our finding that adversarially-generated prompts are brittle to character-level changes, our defense first randomly perturbs multiple copies of a given input prompt, and then aggregates the corresponding predictions to detect adversarial inputs. SmoothLLM reduces the attack success rate on numerous popular LLMs to below one percentage point, avoids unnecessary conservatism, and admits provable guarantees on attack mitigation. Moreover, our defense uses exponentially fewer queries than existing attacks and is compatible with any LLM. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** DecoderLens: Layerwise Interpretation of Encoder-Decoder Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03686  
**Abstract:** In recent years, many interpretability methods have been proposed to help interpret the internal states of Transformer-models, at different levels of precision and complexity. Here, to analyze encoder-decoder Transformers, we propose a simple, new method: DecoderLens. Inspired by the LogitLens (for decoder-only Transformers), this method involves allowing the decoder to cross-attend representations of intermediate encoder layers instead of using the final encoder output, as is normally done in encoder-decoder models. The method thus maps previously uninterpretable vector representations to human-interpretable sequences of words or symbols. We report results from the DecoderLens applied to models trained on question answering, logical reasoning, speech recognition and machine translation. The DecoderLens reveals several specific subtasks that are solved at low or intermediate layers, shedding new light on the information flow inside the encoder component of this important class of models. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** DirectGPT: A Direct Manipulation Interface to Interact with Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03691  
**Abstract:** We characterize and demonstrate how the principles of direct manipulation can improve interaction with large language models. This includes: continuous representation of generated objects of interest; reuse of prompt syntax in a toolbar of commands; manipulable outputs to compose or control the effect of prompts; and undo mechanisms. This idea is exemplified in DirectGPT, a user interface layer on top of ChatGPT that works by transforming direct manipulation actions to engineered prompts. A study shows participants were 50% faster and relied on 50% fewer and 72% shorter prompts to edit text, code, and vector images compared to baseline ChatGPT. Our work contributes a validated approach to integrate LLMs into traditional software using direct manipulation. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Fine-tuning Aligned Language Models Compromises Safety, Even When Users  Do Not Intend To!  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03693  
**Abstract:** Optimizing large language models (LLMs) for downstream use cases often involves the customization of pre-trained LLMs through further fine-tuning. Meta's open release of Llama models and OpenAI's APIs for fine-tuning GPT-3.5 Turbo on custom datasets also encourage this practice. But, what are the safety costs associated with such custom fine-tuning? We note that while existing safety alignment infrastructures can restrict harmful behaviors of LLMs at inference time, they do not cover safety risks when fine-tuning privileges are extended to end-users. Our red teaming studies find that the safety alignment of LLMs can be compromised by fine-tuning with only a few adversarially designed training examples. For instance, we jailbreak GPT-3.5 Turbo's safety guardrails by fine-tuning it on only 10 such examples at a cost of less than $0.20 via OpenAI's APIs, making the model responsive to nearly any harmful instructions. Disconcertingly, our research also reveals that, even without malicious intent, simply fine-tuning with benign and commonly used datasets can also inadvertently degrade the safety alignment of LLMs, though to a lesser extent. These findings suggest that fine-tuning aligned LLMs introduces new safety risks that current safety infrastructures fall short of addressing -- even if a model's initial safety alignment is impeccable, it is not necessarily to be maintained after custom fine-tuning. We outline and critically analyze potential mitigations and advocate for further research efforts toward reinforcing safety protocols for the custom fine-tuning of aligned LLMs. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Drag View: Generalizable Novel View Synthesis with Unposed Imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03704  
**Abstract:** We introduce DragView, a novel and interactive framework for generating novel views of unseen scenes. DragView initializes the new view from a single source image, and the rendering is supported by a sparse set of unposed multi-view images, all seamlessly executed within a single feed-forward pass. Our approach begins with users dragging a source view through a local relative coordinate system. Pixel-aligned features are obtained by projecting the sampled 3D points along the target ray onto the source view. We then incorporate a view-dependent modulation layer to effectively handle occlusion during the projection. Additionally, we broaden the epipolar attention mechanism to encompass all source pixels, facilitating the aggregation of initialized coordinate-aligned point features from other unposed views. Finally, we employ another transformer to decode ray features into final pixel intensities. Crucially, our framework does not rely on either 2D prior models or the explicit estimation of camera poses. During testing, DragView showcases the capability to generalize to new scenes unseen during training, also utilizing only unposed support images, enabling the generation of photo-realistic new views characterized by flexible camera trajectories. In our experiments, we conduct a comprehensive comparison of the performance of DragView with recent scene representation networks operating under pose-free conditions, as well as with generalizable NeRFs subject to noisy test camera poses. DragView consistently demonstrates its superior performance in view synthesis quality, while also being more user-friendly. Project page: https://zhiwenfan.github.io/DragView/. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Agent Instructs Large Language Models to be General Zero-Shot Reasoners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03710  
**Abstract:** We introduce a method to improve the zero-shot reasoning abilities of large language models on general language understanding tasks. Specifically, we build an autonomous agent to instruct the reasoning process of large language models. We show this approach further unleashes the zero-shot reasoning abilities of large language models to more tasks. We study the performance of our method on a wide set of datasets spanning generation, classification, and reasoning. We show that our method generalizes to most tasks and obtains state-of-the-art zero-shot performance on 20 of the 29 datasets that we evaluate. For instance, our method boosts the performance of state-of-the-art large language models by a large margin, including Vicuna-13b (13.3%), Llama-2-70b-chat (23.2%), and GPT-3.5 Turbo (17.0%). Compared to zero-shot chain of thought, our improvement in reasoning is striking, with an average increase of 10.5%. With our method, Llama-2-70b-chat outperforms zero-shot GPT-3.5 Turbo by 10.2%. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** DSPy: Compiling Declarative Language Model Calls into Self-Improving  Pipelines  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03714  
**Abstract:** The ML community is rapidly exploring techniques for prompting language models (LMs) and for stacking them into pipelines that solve complex tasks. Unfortunately, existing LM pipelines are typically implemented using hard-coded "prompt templates", i.e. lengthy strings discovered via trial and error. Toward a more systematic approach for developing and optimizing LM pipelines, we introduce DSPy, a programming model that abstracts LM pipelines as text transformation graphs, i.e. imperative computational graphs where LMs are invoked through declarative modules. DSPy modules are parameterized, meaning they can learn (by creating and collecting demonstrations) how to apply compositions of prompting, finetuning, augmentation, and reasoning techniques. We design a compiler that will optimize any DSPy pipeline to maximize a given metric. We conduct two case studies, showing that succinct DSPy programs can express and optimize sophisticated LM pipelines that reason about math word problems, tackle multi-hop retrieval, answer complex questions, and control agent loops. Within minutes of compiling, a few lines of DSPy allow GPT-3.5 and llama2-13b-chat to self-bootstrap pipelines that outperform standard few-shot prompting (generally by over 25% and 65%, respectively) and pipelines with expert-created demonstrations (by up to 5-46% and 16-40%, respectively). On top of that, DSPy programs compiled to open and relatively small LMs like 770M-parameter T5 and llama2-13b-chat are competitive with approaches that rely on expert-written prompt chains for proprietary GPT-3.5. DSPy is available at https://github.com/stanfordnlp/dspy 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** MathCoder: Seamless Code Integration in LLMs for Enhanced Mathematical  Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03731  
**Abstract:** The recently released GPT-4 Code Interpreter has demonstrated remarkable proficiency in solving challenging math problems, primarily attributed to its ability to seamlessly reason with natural language, generate code, execute code, and continue reasoning based on the execution output. In this paper, we present a method to fine-tune open-source language models, enabling them to use code for modeling and deriving math equations and, consequently, enhancing their mathematical reasoning abilities. We propose a method of generating novel and high-quality datasets with math problems and their code-based solutions, referred to as MathCodeInstruct. Each solution interleaves natural language, code, and execution results. We also introduce a customized supervised fine-tuning and inference approach. This approach yields the MathCoder models, a family of models capable of generating code-based solutions for solving challenging math problems. Impressively, the MathCoder models achieve state-of-the-art scores among open-source LLMs on the MATH (45.2%) and GSM8K (83.9%) datasets, substantially outperforming other open-source alternatives. Notably, the MathCoder model not only surpasses ChatGPT-3.5 and PaLM-2 on GSM8K and MATH but also outperforms GPT-4 on the competition-level MATH dataset. The dataset and models will be released at https://github.com/mathllm/MathCoder. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Aligning Text-to-Image Diffusion Models with Reward Backpropagation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03739  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models have recently emerged at the forefront of image generation, powered by very large-scale unsupervised or weakly supervised text-to-image training datasets. Due to their unsupervised training, controlling their behavior in downstream tasks, such as maximizing human-perceived image quality, image-text alignment, or ethical image generation, is difficult. Recent works finetune diffusion models to downstream reward functions using vanilla reinforcement learning, notorious for the high variance of the gradient estimators. In this paper, we propose AlignProp, a method that aligns diffusion models to downstream reward functions using end-to-end backpropagation of the reward gradient through the denoising process. While naive implementation of such backpropagation would require prohibitive memory resources for storing the partial derivatives of modern text-to-image models, AlignProp finetunes low-rank adapter weight modules and uses gradient checkpointing, to render its memory usage viable. We test AlignProp in finetuning diffusion models to various objectives, such as image-text semantic alignment, aesthetics, compressibility and controllability of the number of objects present, as well as their combinations. We show AlignProp achieves higher rewards in fewer training steps than alternatives, while being conceptually simpler, making it a straightforward choice for optimizing diffusion models for differentiable reward functions of interest. Code and Visualization results are available at https://align-prop.github.io/. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Improved Baselines with Visual Instruction Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03744  
**Abstract:** Large multimodal models (LMM) have recently shown encouraging progress with visual instruction tuning. In this note, we show that the fully-connected vision-language cross-modal connector in LLaVA is surprisingly powerful and data-efficient. With simple modifications to LLaVA, namely, using CLIP-ViT-L-336px with an MLP projection and adding academic-task-oriented VQA data with simple response formatting prompts, we establish stronger baselines that achieve state-of-the-art across 11 benchmarks. Our final 13B checkpoint uses merely 1.2M publicly available data, and finishes full training in ~1 day on a single 8-A100 node. We hope this can make state-of-the-art LMM research more accessible. Code and model will be publicly available. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Synergistic Fusion of Graph and Transformer Features for Enhanced  Molecular Property Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03027  
**Abstract:** Molecular property prediction is a critical task in computational drug discovery. While recent advances in Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) and Transformers have shown to be effective and promising, they face the following limitations: Transformer self-attention does not explicitly consider the underlying molecule structure while GNN feature representation alone is not sufficient to capture granular and hidden interactions and characteristics that distinguish similar molecules. To address these limitations, we propose SYN- FUSION, a novel approach that synergistically combines pre-trained features from GNNs and Transformers. This approach provides a comprehensive molecular representation, capturing both the global molecule structure and the individual atom characteristics. Experimental results on MoleculeNet benchmarks demonstrate superior performance, surpassing previous models in 5 out of 7 classification datasets and 4 out of 6 regression datasets. The performance of SYN-FUSION has been compared with other Graph-Transformer models that have been jointly trained using a combination of transformer and graph features, and it is found that our approach is on par with those models in terms of performance. Extensive analysis of the learned fusion model across aspects such as loss, latent space, and weight distribution further validates the effectiveness of SYN-FUSION. Finally, an ablation study unequivocally demonstrates that the synergy achieved by SYN-FUSION surpasses the performance of its individual model components and their ensemble, offering a substantial improvement in predicting molecular properties. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** GPT-MolBERTa: GPT Molecular Features Language Model for molecular  property prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03030  
**Abstract:** With the emergence of Transformer architectures and their powerful understanding of textual data, a new horizon has opened up to predict the molecular properties based on text description. While SMILES are the most common form of representation, they are lacking robustness, rich information and canonicity, which limit their effectiveness in becoming generalizable representations. Here, we present GPT-MolBERTa, a self-supervised large language model (LLM) which uses detailed textual descriptions of molecules to predict their properties. A text based description of 326000 molecules were collected using ChatGPT and used to train LLM to learn the representation of molecules. To predict the properties for the downstream tasks, both BERT and RoBERTa models were used in the finetuning stage. Experiments show that GPT-MolBERTa performs well on various molecule property benchmarks, and approaching state of the art performance in regression tasks. Additionally, further analysis of the attention mechanisms show that GPT-MolBERTa is able to pick up important information from the input textual data, displaying the interpretability of the model. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Blind CT Image Quality Assessment Using DDPM-derived Content and  Transformer-based Evaluator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03118  
**Abstract:** Lowering radiation dose per view and utilizing sparse views per scan are two common CT scan modes, albeit often leading to distorted images characterized by noise and streak artifacts. Blind image quality assessment (BIQA) strives to evaluate perceptual quality in alignment with what radiologists perceive, which plays an important role in advancing low-dose CT reconstruction techniques. An intriguing direction involves developing BIQA methods that mimic the operational characteristic of the human visual system (HVS). The internal generative mechanism (IGM) theory reveals that the HVS actively deduces primary content to enhance comprehension. In this study, we introduce an innovative BIQA metric that emulates the active inference process of IGM. Initially, an active inference module, implemented as a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM), is constructed to anticipate the primary content. Then, the dissimilarity map is derived by assessing the interrelation between the distorted image and its primary content. Subsequently, the distorted image and dissimilarity map are combined into a multi-channel image, which is inputted into a transformer-based image quality evaluator. Remarkably, by exclusively utilizing this transformer-based quality evaluator, we won the second place in the MICCAI 2023 low-dose computed tomography perceptual image quality assessment grand challenge. Leveraging the DDPM-derived primary content, our approach further improves the performance on the challenge dataset. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Swin-Tempo: Temporal-Aware Lung Nodule Detection in CT Scans as Video  Sequences Using Swin Transformer-Enhanced UNet  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03365  
**Abstract:** Lung cancer is highly lethal, emphasizing the critical need for early detection. However, identifying lung nodules poses significant challenges for radiologists, who rely heavily on their expertise and experience for accurate diagnosis. To address this issue, computer-aided diagnosis systems based on machine learning techniques have emerged to assist doctors in identifying lung nodules from computed tomography (CT) scans. Unfortunately, existing networks in this domain often suffer from computational complexity, leading to high rates of false negatives and false positives, limiting their effectiveness. To address these challenges, we present an innovative model that harnesses the strengths of both convolutional neural networks and vision transformers. Inspired by object detection in videos, we treat each 3D CT image as a video, individual slices as frames, and lung nodules as objects, enabling a time-series application. The primary objective of our work is to overcome hardware limitations during model training, allowing for efficient processing of 2D data while utilizing inter-slice information for accurate identification based on 3D image context. We validated the proposed network by applying a 10-fold cross-validation technique to the publicly available Lung Nodule Analysis 2016 dataset. Our proposed architecture achieves an average sensitivity criterion of 97.84% and a competition performance metrics (CPM) of 96.0% with few parameters. Comparative analysis with state-of-the-art advancements in lung nodule identification demonstrates the significant accuracy achieved by our proposed model. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** MedSynV1: Text-guided Anatomy-aware Synthesis of High-Fidelity 3D CT  Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03559  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces an innovative methodology for producing high-quality 3D lung CT images guided by textual information. While diffusion-based generative models are increasingly used in medical imaging, current state-of-the-art approaches are limited to low-resolution outputs and underutilize radiology reports' abundant information. The radiology reports can enhance the generation process by providing additional guidance and offering fine-grained control over the synthesis of images. Nevertheless, expanding text-guided generation to high-resolution 3D images poses significant memory and anatomical detail-preserving challenges. Addressing the memory issue, we introduce a hierarchical scheme that uses a modified UNet architecture. We start by synthesizing low-resolution images conditioned on the text, serving as a foundation for subsequent generators for complete volumetric data. To ensure the anatomical plausibility of the generated samples, we provide further guidance by generating vascular, airway, and lobular segmentation masks in conjunction with the CT images. The model demonstrates the capability to use textual input and segmentation tasks to generate synthesized images. The results of comparative assessments indicate that our approach exhibits superior performance compared to the most advanced models based on GAN and diffusion techniques, especially in accurately retaining crucial anatomical features such as fissure lines, airways, and vascular structures. This innovation introduces novel possibilities. This study focuses on two main objectives: (1) the development of a method for creating images based on textual prompts and anatomical components, and (2) the capability to generate new images conditioning on anatomical elements. The advancements in image generation can be applied to enhance numerous downstream tasks. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Certification of Deep Learning Models for Medical Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03664  
**Abstract:** In medical imaging, segmentation models have known a significant improvement in the past decade and are now used daily in clinical practice. However, similar to classification models, segmentation models are affected by adversarial attacks. In a safety-critical field like healthcare, certifying model predictions is of the utmost importance. Randomized smoothing has been introduced lately and provides a framework to certify models and obtain theoretical guarantees. In this paper, we present for the first time a certified segmentation baseline for medical imaging based on randomized smoothing and diffusion models. Our results show that leveraging the power of denoising diffusion probabilistic models helps us overcome the limits of randomized smoothing. We conduct extensive experiments on five public datasets of chest X-rays, skin lesions, and colonoscopies, and empirically show that we are able to maintain high certified Dice scores even for highly perturbed images. Our work represents the first attempt to certify medical image segmentation models, and we aspire for it to set a foundation for future benchmarks in this crucial and largely uncharted area. 

