**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Generative Hyperelasticity with Physics-Informed Probabilistic Diffusion  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03745  
**Abstract:** Many natural materials exhibit highly complex, nonlinear, anisotropic, and heterogeneous mechanical properties. Recently, it has been demonstrated that data-driven strain energy functions possess the flexibility to capture the behavior of these complex materials with high accuracy while satisfying physics-based constraints. However, most of these approaches disregard the uncertainty in the estimates and the spatial heterogeneity of these materials. In this work, we leverage recent advances in generative models to address these issues. We use as building block neural ordinary equations (NODE) that -- by construction -- create polyconvex strain energy functions, a key property of realistic hyperelastic material models. We combine this approach with probabilistic diffusion models to generate new samples of strain energy functions. This technique allows us to sample a vector of Gaussian white noise and translate it to NODE parameters thereby representing plausible strain energy functions. We extend our approach to spatially correlated diffusion resulting in heterogeneous material properties for arbitrary geometries. We extensively test our method with synthetic and experimental data on biological tissues and run finite element simulations with various degrees of spatial heterogeneity. We believe this approach is a major step forward including uncertainty in predictive, data-driven models of hyperelasticity 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Literature Based Discovery (LBD): Towards Hypothesis Generation and  Knowledge Discovery in Biomedical Text Mining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03766  
**Abstract:** Biomedical knowledge is growing in an astounding pace with a majority of this knowledge is represented as scientific publications. Text mining tools and methods represents automatic approaches for extracting hidden patterns and trends from this semi structured and unstructured data. In Biomedical Text mining, Literature Based Discovery (LBD) is the process of automatically discovering novel associations between medical terms otherwise mentioned in disjoint literature sets. LBD approaches proven to be successfully reducing the discovery time of potential associations that are hidden in the vast amount of scientific literature. The process focuses on creating concept profiles for medical terms such as a disease or symptom and connecting it with a drug and treatment based on the statistical significance of the shared profiles. This knowledge discovery approach introduced in 1989 still remains as a core task in text mining. Currently the ABC principle based two approaches namely open discovery and closed discovery are mostly explored in LBD process. This review starts with general introduction about text mining followed by biomedical text mining and introduces various literature resources such as MEDLINE, UMLS, MESH, and SemMedDB. This is followed by brief introduction of the core ABC principle and its associated two approaches open discovery and closed discovery in LBD process. This review also discusses the deep learning applications in LBD by reviewing the role of transformer models and neural networks based LBD models and its future aspects. Finally, reviews the key biomedical discoveries generated through LBD approaches in biomedicine and conclude with the current limitations and future directions of LBD. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Investigating Alternative Feature Extraction Pipelines For Clinical Note  Phenotyping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03772  
**Abstract:** A common practice in the medical industry is the use of clinical notes, which consist of detailed patient observations. However, electronic health record systems frequently do not contain these observations in a structured format, rendering patient information challenging to assess and evaluate automatically. Using computational systems for the extraction of medical attributes offers many applications, including longitudinal analysis of patients, risk assessment, and hospital evaluation. Recent work has constructed successful methods for phenotyping: extracting medical attributes from clinical notes. BERT-based models can be used to transform clinical notes into a series of representations, which are then condensed into a single document representation based on their CLS embeddings and passed into an LSTM (Mulyar et al., 2020). Though this pipeline yields a considerable performance improvement over previous results, it requires extensive convergence time. This method also does not allow for predicting attributes not yet identified in clinical notes. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Automating Human Tutor-Style Programming Feedback: Leveraging GPT-4  Tutor Model for Hint Generation and GPT-3.5 Student Model for Hint Validation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03780  
**Abstract:** Generative AI and large language models hold great promise in enhancing programming education by automatically generating individualized feedback for students. We investigate the role of generative AI models in providing human tutor-style programming hints to help students resolve errors in their buggy programs. Recent works have benchmarked state-of-the-art models for various feedback generation scenarios; however, their overall quality is still inferior to human tutors and not yet ready for real-world deployment. In this paper, we seek to push the limits of generative AI models toward providing high-quality programming hints and develop a novel technique, GPT4Hints-GPT3.5Val. As a first step, our technique leverages GPT-4 as a ``tutor'' model to generate hints -- it boosts the generative quality by using symbolic information of failing test cases and fixes in prompts. As a next step, our technique leverages GPT-3.5, a weaker model, as a ``student'' model to further validate the hint quality -- it performs an automatic quality validation by simulating the potential utility of providing this feedback. We show the efficacy of our technique via extensive evaluation using three real-world datasets of Python programs covering a variety of concepts ranging from basic algorithms to regular expressions and data analysis using pandas library. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Logical Languages Accepted by Transformer Encoders with Hard Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03817  
**Abstract:** We contribute to the study of formal languages that can be recognized by transformer encoders. We focus on two self-attention mechanisms: (1) UHAT (Unique Hard Attention Transformers) and (2) AHAT (Average Hard Attention Transformers). UHAT encoders are known to recognize only languages inside the circuit complexity class ${\sf AC}^0$, i.e., accepted by a family of poly-sized and depth-bounded boolean circuits with unbounded fan-ins. On the other hand, AHAT encoders can recognize languages outside ${\sf AC}^0$), but their expressive power still lies within the bigger circuit complexity class ${\sf TC}^0$, i.e., ${\sf AC}^0$-circuits extended by majority gates. We first show a negative result that there is an ${\sf AC}^0$-language that cannot be recognized by an UHAT encoder. On the positive side, we show that UHAT encoders can recognize a rich fragment of ${\sf AC}^0$-languages, namely, all languages definable in first-order logic with arbitrary unary numerical predicates. This logic, includes, for example, all regular languages from ${\sf AC}^0$. We then show that AHAT encoders can recognize all languages of our logic even when we enrich it with counting terms. We apply these results to derive new results on the expressive power of UHAT and AHAT up to permutation of letters (a.k.a. Parikh images). 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Contextualized Structural Self-supervised Learning for Ontology Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03840  
**Abstract:** Ontology matching (OM) entails the identification of semantic relationships between concepts within two or more knowledge graphs (KGs) and serves as a critical step in integrating KGs from various sources. Recent advancements in deep OM models have harnessed the power of transformer-based language models and the advantages of knowledge graph embedding. Nevertheless, these OM models still face persistent challenges, such as a lack of reference alignments, runtime latency, and unexplored different graph structures within an end-to-end framework. In this study, we introduce a novel self-supervised learning OM framework with input ontologies, called LaKERMap. This framework capitalizes on the contextual and structural information of concepts by integrating implicit knowledge into transformers. Specifically, we aim to capture multiple structural contexts, encompassing both local and global interactions, by employing distinct training objectives. To assess our methods, we utilize the Bio-ML datasets and tasks. The findings from our innovative approach reveal that LaKERMap surpasses state-of-the-art systems in terms of alignment quality and inference time. Our models and codes are available here: https://github.com/ellenzhuwang/lakermap. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** ALBERTA: ALgorithm-Based Error Resilience in Transformer Architectures  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03841  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformers are being increasingly deployed in safety-critical applications that demand high reliability. It is crucial to ensure the correctness of their execution in spite of potential errors such as transient hardware errors. We propose a novel algorithm-based resilience framework called ALBERTA that allows us to perform end-to-end resilience analysis and protection of transformer-based architectures. First, our work develops an efficient process of computing and ranking the resilience of transformers layers. We find that due to the large size of transformer models, applying traditional network redundancy to a subset of the most vulnerable layers provides high error coverage albeit with impractically high overhead. We address this shortcoming by providing a software-directed, checksum-based error detection technique aimed at protecting the most vulnerable general matrix multiply (GEMM) layers in the transformer models that use either floating-point or integer arithmetic. Results show that our approach achieves over 99% coverage for errors that result in a mismatch at less than 0.2% computation overhead. Lastly, we present the applicability of our framework in various modern GPU architectures under different numerical precisions. We introduce an efficient self-correction mechanism for resolving erroneous detection with an average overhead of less than 0.002% (with a 2% overhead to resolve each erroneous detection). 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Accelerated Neural Network Training with Rooted Logistic Objectives  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03890  
**Abstract:** Many neural networks deployed in the real world scenarios are trained using cross entropy based loss functions. From the optimization perspective, it is known that the behavior of first order methods such as gradient descent crucially depend on the separability of datasets. In fact, even in the most simplest case of binary classification, the rate of convergence depends on two factors: (1) condition number of data matrix, and (2) separability of the dataset. With no further pre-processing techniques such as over-parametrization, data augmentation etc., separability is an intrinsic quantity of the data distribution under consideration. We focus on the landscape design of the logistic function and derive a novel sequence of {\em strictly} convex functions that are at least as strict as logistic loss. The minimizers of these functions coincide with those of the minimum norm solution wherever possible. The strict convexity of the derived function can be extended to finetune state-of-the-art models and applications. In empirical experimental analysis, we apply our proposed rooted logistic objective to multiple deep models, e.g., fully-connected neural networks and transformers, on various of classification benchmarks. Our results illustrate that training with rooted loss function is converged faster and gains performance improvements. Furthermore, we illustrate applications of our novel rooted loss function in generative modeling based downstream applications, such as finetuning StyleGAN model with the rooted loss. The code implementing our losses and models can be found here for open source software development purposes: https://anonymous.4open.science/r/rooted_loss. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Characterizing the Features of Mitotic Figures Using a Conditional  Diffusion Probabilistic Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03893  
**Abstract:** Mitotic figure detection in histology images is a hard-to-define, yet clinically significant task, where labels are generated with pathologist interpretations and where there is no ``gold-standard'' independent ground-truth. However, it is well-established that these interpretation based labels are often unreliable, in part, due to differences in expertise levels and human subjectivity. In this paper, our goal is to shed light on the inherent uncertainty of mitosis labels and characterize the mitotic figure classification task in a human interpretable manner. We train a probabilistic diffusion model to synthesize patches of cell nuclei for a given mitosis label condition. Using this model, we can then generate a sequence of synthetic images that correspond to the same nucleus transitioning into the mitotic state. This allows us to identify different image features associated with mitosis, such as cytoplasm granularity, nuclear density, nuclear irregularity and high contrast between the nucleus and the cell body. Our approach offers a new tool for pathologists to interpret and communicate the features driving the decision to recognize a mitotic figure. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** CrysFormer: Protein Structure Prediction via 3d Patterson Maps and  Partial Structure Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03899  
**Abstract:** Determining the structure of a protein has been a decades-long open question. A protein's three-dimensional structure often poses nontrivial computation costs, when classical simulation algorithms are utilized. Advances in the transformer neural network architecture -- such as AlphaFold2 -- achieve significant improvements for this problem, by learning from a large dataset of sequence information and corresponding protein structures. Yet, such methods only focus on sequence information; other available prior knowledge, such as protein crystallography and partial structure of amino acids, could be potentially utilized. To the best of our knowledge, we propose the first transformer-based model that directly utilizes protein crystallography and partial structure information to predict the electron density maps of proteins. Via two new datasets of peptide fragments (2-residue and 15-residue) , we demonstrate our method, dubbed \texttt{CrysFormer}, can achieve accurate predictions, based on a much smaller dataset size and with reduced computation costs. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** RTDK-BO: High Dimensional Bayesian Optimization with Reinforced  Transformer Deep kernels  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03912  
**Abstract:** Bayesian Optimization (BO), guided by Gaussian process (GP) surrogates, has proven to be an invaluable technique for efficient, high-dimensional, black-box optimization, a critical problem inherent to many applications such as industrial design and scientific computing. Recent contributions have introduced reinforcement learning (RL) to improve the optimization performance on both single function optimization and \textit{few-shot} multi-objective optimization. However, even few-shot techniques fail to exploit similarities shared between closely related objectives. In this paper, we combine recent developments in Deep Kernel Learning (DKL) and attention-based Transformer models to improve the modeling powers of GP surrogates with meta-learning. We propose a novel method for improving meta-learning BO surrogates by incorporating attention mechanisms into DKL, empowering the surrogates to adapt to contextual information gathered during the BO process. We combine this Transformer Deep Kernel with a learned acquisition function trained with continuous Soft Actor-Critic Reinforcement Learning to aid in exploration. This Reinforced Transformer Deep Kernel (RTDK-BO) approach yields state-of-the-art results in continuous high-dimensional optimization problems. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Toward a Foundation Model for Time Series Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03916  
**Abstract:** A foundation model is a machine learning model trained on a large and diverse set of data, typically using self-supervised learning-based pre-training techniques, that can be adapted to various downstream tasks. However, current research on time series pre-training has mostly focused on models pre-trained solely on data from a single domain, resulting in a lack of knowledge about other types of time series. However, current research on time series pre-training has predominantly focused on models trained exclusively on data from a single domain. As a result, these models possess domain-specific knowledge that may not be easily transferable to time series from other domains. In this paper, we aim to develop an effective time series foundation model by leveraging unlabeled samples from multiple domains. To achieve this, we repurposed the publicly available UCR Archive and evaluated four existing self-supervised learning-based pre-training methods, along with a novel method, on the datasets. We tested these methods using four popular neural network architectures for time series to understand how the pre-training methods interact with different network designs. Our experimental results show that pre-training improves downstream classification tasks by enhancing the convergence of the fine-tuning process. Furthermore, we found that the proposed pre-training method, when combined with the Transformer model, outperforms the alternatives. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Diffusion Models as Masked Audio-Video Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03937  
**Abstract:** Over the past several years, the synchronization between audio and visual signals has been leveraged to learn richer audio-visual representations. Aided by the large availability of unlabeled videos, many unsupervised training frameworks have demonstrated impressive results in various downstream audio and video tasks. Recently, Masked Audio-Video Learners (MAViL) has emerged as a state-of-the-art audio-video pre-training framework. MAViL couples contrastive learning with masked autoencoding to jointly reconstruct audio spectrograms and video frames by fusing information from both modalities. In this paper, we study the potential synergy between diffusion models and MAViL, seeking to derive mutual benefits from these two frameworks. The incorporation of diffusion into MAViL, combined with various training efficiency methodologies that include the utilization of a masking ratio curriculum and adaptive batch sizing, results in a notable 32% reduction in pre-training Floating-Point Operations (FLOPS) and an 18% decrease in pre-training wall clock time. Crucially, this enhanced efficiency does not compromise the model's performance in downstream audio-classification tasks when compared to MAViL's performance. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Sub-token ViT Embedding via Stochastic Resonance Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03967  
**Abstract:** We discover the presence of quantization artifacts in Vision Transformers (ViTs), which arise due to the image tokenization step inherent in these architectures. These artifacts result in coarsely quantized features, which negatively impact performance, especially on downstream dense prediction tasks. We present a zero-shot method to improve how pre-trained ViTs handle spatial quantization. In particular, we propose to ensemble the features obtained from perturbing input images via sub-token spatial translations, inspired by Stochastic Resonance, a method traditionally applied to climate dynamics and signal processing. We term our method ``Stochastic Resonance Transformer" (SRT), which we show can effectively super-resolve features of pre-trained ViTs, capturing more of the local fine-grained structures that might otherwise be neglected as a result of tokenization. SRT can be applied at any layer, on any task, and does not require any fine-tuning. The advantage of the former is evident when applied to monocular depth prediction, where we show that ensembling model outputs are detrimental while applying SRT on intermediate ViT features outperforms the baseline models by an average of 4.7% and 14.9% on the RMSE and RMSE-log metrics across three different architectures. When applied to semi-supervised video object segmentation, SRT also improves over the baseline models uniformly across all metrics, and by an average of 2.4% in F&J score. We further show that these quantization artifacts can be attenuated to some extent via self-distillation. On the unsupervised salient region segmentation, SRT improves upon the base model by an average of 2.1% on the maxF metric. Finally, despite operating purely on pixel-level features, SRT generalizes to non-dense prediction tasks such as image retrieval and object discovery, yielding consistent improvements of up to 2.6% and 1.0% respectively. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Quantized Transformer Language Model Implementations on Edge Devices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03971  
**Abstract:** Large-scale transformer-based models like the Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) are widely used for Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications, wherein these models are initially pre-trained with a large corpus with millions of parameters and then fine-tuned for a downstream NLP task. One of the major limitations of these large-scale models is that they cannot be deployed on resource-constrained devices due to their large model size and increased inference latency. In order to overcome these limitations, such large-scale models can be converted to an optimized FlatBuffer format, tailored for deployment on resource-constrained edge devices. Herein, we evaluate the performance of such FlatBuffer transformed MobileBERT models on three different edge devices, fine-tuned for Reputation analysis of English language tweets in the RepLab 2013 dataset. In addition, this study encompassed an evaluation of the deployed models, wherein their latency, performance, and resource efficiency were meticulously assessed. Our experiment results show that, compared to the original BERT large model, the converted and quantized MobileBERT models have 160$\times$ smaller footprints for a 4.1% drop in accuracy while analyzing at least one tweet per second on edge devices. Furthermore, our study highlights the privacy-preserving aspect of TinyML systems as all data is processed locally within a serverless environment. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** U-Style: Cascading U-nets with Multi-level Speaker and Style Modeling  for Zero-Shot Voice Cloning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04004  
**Abstract:** Zero-shot speaker cloning aims to synthesize speech for any target speaker unseen during TTS system building, given only a single speech reference of the speaker at hand. Although more practical in real applications, the current zero-shot methods still produce speech with undesirable naturalness and speaker similarity. Moreover, endowing the target speaker with arbitrary speaking styles in the zero-shot setup has not been considered. This is because the unique challenge of zero-shot speaker and style cloning is to learn the disentangled speaker and style representations from only short references representing an arbitrary speaker and an arbitrary style. To address this challenge, we propose U-Style, which employs Grad-TTS as the backbone, particularly cascading a speaker-specific encoder and a style-specific encoder between the text encoder and the diffusion decoder. Thus, leveraging signal perturbation, U-Style is explicitly decomposed into speaker- and style-specific modeling parts, achieving better speaker and style disentanglement. To improve unseen speaker and style modeling ability, these two encoders conduct multi-level speaker and style modeling by skip-connected U-nets, incorporating the representation extraction and information reconstruction process. Besides, to improve the naturalness of synthetic speech, we adopt mean-based instance normalization and style adaptive layer normalization in these encoders to perform representation extraction and condition adaptation, respectively. Experiments show that U-Style significantly surpasses the state-of-the-art methods in unseen speaker cloning regarding naturalness and speaker similarity. Notably, U-Style can transfer the style from an unseen source speaker to another unseen target speaker, achieving flexible combinations of desired speaker timbre and style in zero-shot voice cloning. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Enhancing Financial Sentiment Analysis via Retrieval Augmented Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04027  
**Abstract:** Financial sentiment analysis is critical for valuation and investment decision-making. Traditional NLP models, however, are limited by their parameter size and the scope of their training datasets, which hampers their generalization capabilities and effectiveness in this field. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) pre-trained on extensive corpora have demonstrated superior performance across various NLP tasks due to their commendable zero-shot abilities. Yet, directly applying LLMs to financial sentiment analysis presents challenges: The discrepancy between the pre-training objective of LLMs and predicting the sentiment label can compromise their predictive performance. Furthermore, the succinct nature of financial news, often devoid of sufficient context, can significantly diminish the reliability of LLMs' sentiment analysis. To address these challenges, we introduce a retrieval-augmented LLMs framework for financial sentiment analysis. This framework includes an instruction-tuned LLMs module, which ensures LLMs behave as predictors of sentiment labels, and a retrieval-augmentation module which retrieves additional context from reliable external sources. Benchmarked against traditional models and LLMs like ChatGPT and LLaMA, our approach achieves 15\% to 48\% performance gain in accuracy and F1 score. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Analysis of the Reasoning with Redundant Information Provided Ability of  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04039  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across a range of natural language processing tasks, especially in reasoning, a cornerstone for achieving Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). However, commonly used benchmarks may not fully encapsulate the inferential abilities of these models in real-world scenarios. To address this gap, a new form of Question-Answering (QA) task, termed Reasoning with Redundant Information Provided (RRIP), is introduced. The study designed a modified version of the grade school math 8K (GSM-8K) dataset which has several variants focusing on different attributes of redundant information. This investigation evaluates two popular LLMs, LlaMA2-13B-chat and generative pre-trained transformer 3.5 (GPT-3.5), contrasting their performance on traditional QA tasks against the RRIP tasks. Findings indicate that while these models achieved moderate success on standard QA benchmarks, their performance notably declines when assessed on RRIP tasks. The study not only highlights the limitations of current LLMs in handling redundant information but also suggests that future training of these models should focus on incorporating redundant information into the training data to increase the performance on RRIP tasks. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Observation-Guided Diffusion Probabilistic Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04041  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel diffusion model called observation-guided diffusion probabilistic model (OGDM), which effectively addresses the trade-off between quality control and fast sampling. Our approach reestablishes the training objective by integrating the guidance of the observation process with the Markov chain in a principled way. This is achieved by introducing an additional loss term derived from the observation based on the conditional discriminator on noise level, which employs Bernoulli distribution indicating whether its input lies on the (noisy) real manifold or not. This strategy allows us to optimize the more accurate negative log-likelihood induced in the inference stage especially when the number of function evaluations is limited. The proposed training method is also advantageous even when incorporated only into the fine-tuning process, and it is compatible with various fast inference strategies since our method yields better denoising networks using the exactly same inference procedure without incurring extra computational cost. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed training algorithm using diverse inference methods on strong diffusion model baselines. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** How to Capture Higher-order Correlations? Generalizing Matrix Softmax  Attention to Kronecker Computation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04064  
**Abstract:** In the classical transformer attention scheme, we are given three $n \times d$ size matrices $Q, K, V$ (the query, key, and value tokens), and the goal is to compute a new $n \times d$ size matrix $D^{-1} \exp(QK^\top) V$ where $D = \mathrm{diag}( \exp(QK^\top) {\bf 1}_n )$. In this work, we study a generalization of attention which captures triple-wise correlations. This generalization is able to solve problems about detecting triple-wise connections that were shown to be impossible for transformers. The potential downside of this generalization is that it appears as though computations are even more difficult, since the straightforward algorithm requires cubic time in $n$. However, we show that in the bounded-entry setting (which arises in practice, and which is well-studied in both theory and practice), there is actually a near-linear time algorithm. More precisely, we show that bounded entries are both necessary and sufficient for quickly performing generalized computations: 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Automatic Aspect Extraction from Scientific Texts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04074  
**Abstract:** Being able to extract from scientific papers their main points, key insights, and other important information, referred to here as aspects, might facilitate the process of conducting a scientific literature review. Therefore, the aim of our research is to create a tool for automatic aspect extraction from Russian-language scientific texts of any domain. In this paper, we present a cross-domain dataset of scientific texts in Russian, annotated with such aspects as Task, Contribution, Method, and Conclusion, as well as a baseline algorithm for aspect extraction, based on the multilingual BERT model fine-tuned on our data. We show that there are some differences in aspect representation in different domains, but even though our model was trained on a limited number of scientific domains, it is still able to generalize to new domains, as was proved by cross-domain experiments. The code and the dataset are available at \url{https://github.com/anna-marshalova/automatic-aspect-extraction-from-scientific-texts}. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** A Deeply Supervised Semantic Segmentation Method Based on GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04081  
**Abstract:** In recent years, the field of intelligent transportation has witnessed rapid advancements, driven by the increasing demand for automation and efficiency in transportation systems. Traffic safety, one of the tasks integral to intelligent transport systems, requires accurately identifying and locating various road elements, such as road cracks, lanes, and traffic signs. Semantic segmentation plays a pivotal role in achieving this task, as it enables the partition of images into meaningful regions with accurate boundaries. In this study, we propose an improved semantic segmentation model that combines the strengths of adversarial learning with state-of-the-art semantic segmentation techniques. The proposed model integrates a generative adversarial network (GAN) framework into the traditional semantic segmentation model, enhancing the model's performance in capturing complex and subtle features in transportation images. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated by a significant boost in performance on the road crack dataset compared to the existing methods, \textit{i.e.,} SEGAN. This improvement can be attributed to the synergistic effect of adversarial learning and semantic segmentation, which leads to a more refined and accurate representation of road structures and conditions. The enhanced model not only contributes to better detection of road cracks but also to a wide range of applications in intelligent transportation, such as traffic sign recognition, vehicle detection, and lane segmentation. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** ClusVPR: Efficient Visual Place Recognition with Clustering-based  Weighted Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04099  
**Abstract:** Visual place recognition (VPR) is a highly challenging task that has a wide range of applications, including robot navigation and self-driving vehicles. VPR is particularly difficult due to the presence of duplicate regions and the lack of attention to small objects in complex scenes, resulting in recognition deviations. In this paper, we present ClusVPR, a novel approach that tackles the specific issues of redundant information in duplicate regions and representations of small objects. Different from existing methods that rely on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for feature map generation, ClusVPR introduces a unique paradigm called Clustering-based Weighted Transformer Network (CWTNet). CWTNet leverages the power of clustering-based weighted feature maps and integrates global dependencies to effectively address visual deviations encountered in large-scale VPR problems. We also introduce the optimized-VLAD (OptLAD) layer that significantly reduces the number of parameters and enhances model efficiency. This layer is specifically designed to aggregate the information obtained from scale-wise image patches. Additionally, our pyramid self-supervised strategy focuses on extracting representative and diverse information from scale-wise image patches instead of entire images, which is crucial for capturing representative and diverse information in VPR. Extensive experiments on four VPR datasets show our model's superior performance compared to existing models while being less complex. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** VI-Diff: Unpaired Visible-Infrared Translation Diffusion Model for  Single Modality Labeled Visible-Infrared Person Re-identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04122  
**Abstract:** Visible-Infrared person re-identification (VI-ReID) in real-world scenarios poses a significant challenge due to the high cost of cross-modality data annotation. Different sensing cameras, such as RGB/IR cameras for good/poor lighting conditions, make it costly and error-prone to identify the same person across modalities. To overcome this, we explore the use of single-modality labeled data for the VI-ReID task, which is more cost-effective and practical. By labeling pedestrians in only one modality (e.g., visible images) and retrieving in another modality (e.g., infrared images), we aim to create a training set containing both originally labeled and modality-translated data using unpaired image-to-image translation techniques. In this paper, we propose VI-Diff, a diffusion model that effectively addresses the task of Visible-Infrared person image translation. Through comprehensive experiments, we demonstrate that VI-Diff outperforms existing diffusion and GAN models, making it a promising solution for VI-ReID with single-modality labeled data. Our approach can be a promising solution to the VI-ReID task with single-modality labeled data and serves as a good starting point for future study. Code will be available. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** TiC: Exploring Vision Transformer in Convolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04134  
**Abstract:** While models derived from Vision Transformers (ViTs) have been phonemically surging, pre-trained models cannot seamlessly adapt to arbitrary resolution images without altering the architecture and configuration, such as sampling the positional encoding, limiting their flexibility for various vision tasks. For instance, the Segment Anything Model (SAM) based on ViT-Huge requires all input images to be resized to 1024$\times$1024. To overcome this limitation, we propose the Multi-Head Self-Attention Convolution (MSA-Conv) that incorporates Self-Attention within generalized convolutions, including standard, dilated, and depthwise ones. Enabling transformers to handle images of varying sizes without retraining or rescaling, the use of MSA-Conv further reduces computational costs compared to global attention in ViT, which grows costly as image size increases. Later, we present the Vision Transformer in Convolution (TiC) as a proof of concept for image classification with MSA-Conv, where two capacity enhancing strategies, namely Multi-Directional Cyclic Shifted Mechanism and Inter-Pooling Mechanism, have been proposed, through establishing long-distance connections between tokens and enlarging the effective receptive field. Extensive experiments have been carried out to validate the overall effectiveness of TiC. Additionally, ablation studies confirm the performance improvement made by MSA-Conv and the two capacity enhancing strategies separately. Note that our proposal aims at studying an alternative to the global attention used in ViT, while MSA-Conv meets our goal by making TiC comparable to state-of-the-art on ImageNet-1K. Code will be released at https://github.com/zs670980918/MSA-Conv. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Improving Neural Radiance Field using Near-Surface Sampling with Point  Cloud Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04152  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance field (NeRF) is an emerging view synthesis method that samples points in a three-dimensional (3D) space and estimates their existence and color probabilities. The disadvantage of NeRF is that it requires a long training time since it samples many 3D points. In addition, if one samples points from occluded regions or in the space where an object is unlikely to exist, the rendering quality of NeRF can be degraded. These issues can be solved by estimating the geometry of 3D scene. This paper proposes a near-surface sampling framework to improve the rendering quality of NeRF. To this end, the proposed method estimates the surface of a 3D object using depth images of the training set and sampling is performed around there only. To obtain depth information on a novel view, the paper proposes a 3D point cloud generation method and a simple refining method for projected depth from a point cloud. Experimental results show that the proposed near-surface sampling NeRF framework can significantly improve the rendering quality, compared to the original NeRF and a state-of-the-art depth-based NeRF method. In addition, one can significantly accelerate the training time of a NeRF model with the proposed near-surface sampling framework. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Degradation-Aware Self-Attention Based Transformer for Blind Image  Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04180  
**Abstract:** Compared to CNN-based methods, Transformer-based methods achieve impressive image restoration outcomes due to their abilities to model remote dependencies. However, how to apply Transformer-based methods to the field of blind super-resolution (SR) and further make an SR network adaptive to degradation information is still an open problem. In this paper, we propose a new degradation-aware self-attention-based Transformer model, where we incorporate contrastive learning into the Transformer network for learning the degradation representations of input images with unknown noise. In particular, we integrate both CNN and Transformer components into the SR network, where we first use the CNN modulated by the degradation information to extract local features, and then employ the degradation-aware Transformer to extract global semantic features. We apply our proposed model to several popular large-scale benchmark datasets for testing, and achieve the state-of-the-art performance compared to existing methods. In particular, our method yields a PSNR of 32.43 dB on the Urban100 dataset at $\times$2 scale, 0.94 dB higher than DASR, and 26.62 dB on the Urban100 dataset at $\times$4 scale, 0.26 dB improvement over KDSR, setting a new benchmark in this area. Source code is available at: https://github.com/I2-Multimedia-Lab/DSAT/tree/main. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Enhancing the Authenticity of Rendered Portraits with  Identity-Consistent Transfer Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04194  
**Abstract:** Despite rapid advances in computer graphics, creating high-quality photo-realistic virtual portraits is prohibitively expensive. Furthermore, the well-know ''uncanny valley'' effect in rendered portraits has a significant impact on the user experience, especially when the depiction closely resembles a human likeness, where any minor artifacts can evoke feelings of eeriness and repulsiveness. In this paper, we present a novel photo-realistic portrait generation framework that can effectively mitigate the ''uncanny valley'' effect and improve the overall authenticity of rendered portraits. Our key idea is to employ transfer learning to learn an identity-consistent mapping from the latent space of rendered portraits to that of real portraits. During the inference stage, the input portrait of an avatar can be directly transferred to a realistic portrait by changing its appearance style while maintaining the facial identity. To this end, we collect a new dataset, Daz-Rendered-Faces-HQ (DRFHQ), that is specifically designed for rendering-style portraits. We leverage this dataset to fine-tune the StyleGAN2 generator, using our carefully crafted framework, which helps to preserve the geometric and color features relevant to facial identity. We evaluate our framework using portraits with diverse gender, age, and race variations. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations and ablation studies show the advantages of our method compared to state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Keyword Augmented Retrieval: Novel framework for Information Retrieval  integrated with speech interface  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04205  
**Abstract:** Retrieving answers in a quick and low cost manner without hallucinations from a combination of structured and unstructured data using Language models is a major hurdle which prevents employment of Language models in knowledge retrieval automation. This becomes accentuated when one wants to integrate a speech interface. Besides, for commercial search and chatbot applications, complete reliance on commercial large language models (LLMs) like GPT 3.5 etc. can be very costly. In this work, authors have addressed this problem by first developing a keyword based search framework which augments discovery of the context to be provided to the large language model. The keywords in turn are generated by LLM and cached for comparison with keywords generated by LLM against the query raised. This significantly reduces time and cost to find the context within documents. Once the context is set, LLM uses that to provide answers based on a prompt tailored for Q&A. This research work demonstrates that use of keywords in context identification reduces the overall inference time and cost of information retrieval. Given this reduction in inference time and cost with the keyword augmented retrieval framework, a speech based interface for user input and response readout was integrated. This allowed a seamless interaction with the language model. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Fully discrete Galerkin scheme for a semilinear subdiffusion equation  with nonsmooth data and time-dependent coefficient  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04246  
**Abstract:** We couple the L1 discretization of the Caputo fractional derivative in time with the Galerkin scheme to devise a linear numerical method for the semilinear subdiffusion equation. Two important points that we make are: nonsmooth initial data and time-dependent diffusion coefficient. We prove the stability and convergence of the method under weak assumptions concerning regularity of the diffusivity. We find optimal pointwise in space and global in time errors, which are verified with several numerical experiments. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Coding by Design: GPT-4 empowers Agile Model Driven Development  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04304  
**Abstract:** Generating code from a natural language using Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, seems groundbreaking. Yet, with more extensive use, it's evident that this approach has its own limitations. The inherent ambiguity of natural language presents challenges for complex software designs. Accordingly, our research offers an Agile Model-Driven Development (MDD) approach that enhances code auto-generation using OpenAI's GPT-4. Our work emphasizes "Agility" as a significant contribution to the current MDD method, particularly when the model undergoes changes or needs deployment in a different programming language. Thus, we present a case-study showcasing a multi-agent simulation system of an Unmanned Vehicle Fleet. In the first and second layer of our approach, we constructed a textual representation of the case-study using Unified Model Language (UML) diagrams. In the next layer, we introduced two sets of constraints that minimize model ambiguity. Object Constraints Language (OCL) is applied to fine-tune the code constructions details, while FIPA ontology is used to shape communication semantics and protocols. Ultimately, leveraging GPT-4, our last layer auto-generates code in both Java and Python. The Java code is deployed within the JADE framework, while the Python code is deployed in PADE framework. Concluding our research, we engaged in a comprehensive evaluation of the generated code. From a behavioural standpoint, the auto-generated code aligned perfectly with the expected UML sequence diagram. Structurally, we compared the complexity of code derived from UML diagrams constrained solely by OCL to that influenced by both OCL and FIPA-ontology. Results indicate that ontology-constrained model produce inherently more intricate code, but it remains manageable and low-risk for further testing and maintenance. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Large-Scale Korean Text Dataset for Classifying Biased Speech in  Real-World Online Services  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04313  
**Abstract:** With the growth of online services, the need for advanced text classification algorithms, such as sentiment analysis and biased text detection, has become increasingly evident. The anonymous nature of online services often leads to the presence of biased and harmful language, posing challenges to maintaining the health of online communities. This phenomenon is especially relevant in South Korea, where large-scale hate speech detection algorithms have not yet been broadly explored. In this paper, we introduce a new comprehensive, large-scale dataset collected from a well-known South Korean SNS platform. Our proposed dataset provides annotations including (1) Preferences, (2) Profanities, and (3) Nine types of Bias for the text samples, enabling multi-task learning for simultaneous classification of user-generated texts. Leveraging state-of-the-art BERT-based language models, our approach surpasses human-level accuracy across diverse classification tasks, as measured by various metrics. Beyond academic contributions, our work can provide practical solutions for real-world hate speech and bias mitigation, contributing directly to the improvement of online community health. Our work provides a robust foundation for future research aiming to improve the quality of online discourse and foster societal well-being. All source codes and datasets are publicly accessible at https://github.com/Dasol-Choi/KoMultiText. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** A Language-Agent Approach to Formal Theorem-Proving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04353  
**Abstract:** Language agents, which use a large language model (LLM) capable of in-context learning to interact with an external environment, have recently emerged as a promising approach to control tasks. We present the first language-agent approach to formal theorem-proving. Our method, COPRA, uses a high-capacity, black-box LLM (GPT-4) as part of a policy for a stateful backtracking search. During the search, the policy can select proof tactics and retrieve lemmas and definitions from an external database. Each selected tactic is executed in the underlying proof framework, and the execution feedback is used to build the prompt for the next policy invocation. The search also tracks selected information from its history and uses it to reduce hallucinations and unnecessary LLM queries. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Exploiting Transformer Activation Sparsity with Dynamic Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04361  
**Abstract:** Transformer models, despite their impressive performance, often face practical limitations due to their high computational requirements. At the same time, previous studies have revealed significant activation sparsity in these models, indicating the presence of redundant computations. In this paper, we propose Dynamic Sparsified Transformer Inference (DSTI), a method that radically reduces the inference cost of Transformer models by enforcing activation sparsity and subsequently transforming a dense model into its sparse Mixture of Experts (MoE) version. We demonstrate that it is possible to train small gating networks that successfully predict the relative contribution of each expert during inference. Furthermore, we introduce a mechanism that dynamically determines the number of executed experts individually for each token. DSTI can be applied to any Transformer-based architecture and has negligible impact on the accuracy. For the BERT-base classification model, we reduce inference cost by almost 60%. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Latent Consistency Models: Synthesizing High-Resolution Images with  Few-Step Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04378  
**Abstract:** Latent Diffusion models (LDMs) have achieved remarkable results in synthesizing high-resolution images. However, the iterative sampling process is computationally intensive and leads to slow generation. Inspired by Consistency Models (song et al.), we propose Latent Consistency Models (LCMs), enabling swift inference with minimal steps on any pre-trained LDMs, including Stable Diffusion (rombach et al). Viewing the guided reverse diffusion process as solving an augmented probability flow ODE (PF-ODE), LCMs are designed to directly predict the solution of such ODE in latent space, mitigating the need for numerous iterations and allowing rapid, high-fidelity sampling. Efficiently distilled from pre-trained classifier-free guided diffusion models, a high-quality 768 x 768 2~4-step LCM takes only 32 A100 GPU hours for training. Furthermore, we introduce Latent Consistency Fine-tuning (LCF), a novel method that is tailored for fine-tuning LCMs on customized image datasets. Evaluation on the LAION-5B-Aesthetics dataset demonstrates that LCMs achieve state-of-the-art text-to-image generation performance with few-step inference. Project Page: https://latent-consistency-models.github.io/ 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Language Agent Tree Search Unifies Reasoning Acting and Planning in  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04406  
**Abstract:** While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance on a range of decision-making tasks, they rely on simple acting processes and fall short of broad deployment as autonomous agents. We introduce LATS (Language Agent Tree Search), a general framework that synergizes the capabilities of LLMs in planning, acting, and reasoning. Drawing inspiration from Monte Carlo tree search in model-based reinforcement learning, LATS employs LLMs as agents, value functions, and optimizers, repurposing their latent strengths for enhanced decision-making. What is crucial in this method is the use of an environment for external feedback, which offers a more deliberate and adaptive problem-solving mechanism that moves beyond the limitations of existing techniques. Our experimental evaluation across diverse domains, such as programming, HotPotQA, and WebShop, illustrates the applicability of LATS for both reasoning and acting. In particular, LATS achieves 94.4\% for programming on HumanEval with GPT-4 and an average score of 75.9 for web browsing on WebShop with GPT-3.5, demonstrating the effectiveness and generality of our method. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** FedConv: Enhancing Convolutional Neural Networks for Handling Data  Heterogeneity in Federated Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04412  
**Abstract:** Federated learning (FL) is an emerging paradigm in machine learning, where a shared model is collaboratively learned using data from multiple devices to mitigate the risk of data leakage. While recent studies posit that Vision Transformer (ViT) outperforms Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) in addressing data heterogeneity in FL, the specific architectural components that underpin this advantage have yet to be elucidated. In this paper, we systematically investigate the impact of different architectural elements, such as activation functions and normalization layers, on the performance within heterogeneous FL. Through rigorous empirical analyses, we are able to offer the first-of-its-kind general guidance on micro-architecture design principles for heterogeneous FL. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** CIFAR-10-Warehouse: Broad and More Realistic Testbeds in Model  Generalization Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04414  
**Abstract:** Analyzing model performance in various unseen environments is a critical research problem in the machine learning community. To study this problem, it is important to construct a testbed with out-of-distribution test sets that have broad coverage of environmental discrepancies. However, existing testbeds typically either have a small number of domains or are synthesized by image corruptions, hindering algorithm design that demonstrates real-world effectiveness. In this paper, we introduce CIFAR-10-Warehouse, consisting of 180 datasets collected by prompting image search engines and diffusion models in various ways. Generally sized between 300 and 8,000 images, the datasets contain natural images, cartoons, certain colors, or objects that do not naturally appear. With CIFAR-10-W, we aim to enhance the evaluation and deepen the understanding of two generalization tasks: domain generalization and model accuracy prediction in various out-of-distribution environments. We conduct extensive benchmarking and comparison experiments and show that CIFAR-10-W offers new and interesting insights inherent to these tasks. We also discuss other fields that would benefit from CIFAR-10-W. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Functional Interpolation for Relative Positions Improves Long Context  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04418  
**Abstract:** Preventing the performance decay of Transformers on inputs longer than those used for training has been an important challenge in extending the context length of these models. Though the Transformer architecture has fundamentally no limits on the input sequence lengths it can process, the choice of position encoding used during training can limit the performance of these models on longer inputs. We propose a novel functional relative position encoding with progressive interpolation, FIRE, to improve Transformer generalization to longer contexts. We theoretically prove that this can represent some of the popular relative position encodings, such as T5's RPE, Alibi, and Kerple. We next empirically show that FIRE models have better generalization to longer contexts on both zero-shot language modeling and long text benchmarks. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** ECGNet: A generative adversarial network (GAN) approach to the synthesis  of 12-lead ECG signals from single lead inputs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03753  
**Abstract:** Electrocardiography (ECG) signal generation has been heavily explored using generative adversarial networks (GAN) because the implementation of 12-lead ECGs is not always feasible. The GAN models have achieved remarkable results in reproducing ECG signals but are only designed for multiple lead inputs and the features the GAN model preserves have not been identified-limiting the generated signals use in cardiovascular disease (CVD)-predictive models. This paper presents ECGNet which is a procedure that generates a complete set of 12-lead ECG signals from any single lead input using a GAN framework with a bidirectional long short-term memory (LSTM) generator and a convolutional neural network (CNN) discriminator. Cross and auto-correlation analysis performed on the generated signals identifies features conserved during the signal generation-i.e., features that can characterize the unique-nature of each signal and thus likely indicators of CVD. Finally, by using ECG signals annotated with the CVD-indicative features detailed by the correlation analysis as inputs for a CVD-onset-predictive CNN model, we overcome challenges preventing the prediction of multiple-CVD targets. Our models are experimented on 15s 12-lead ECG dataset recorded using MyoVista's wavECG. Functional outcome data for each patient is recorded and used in the CVD-predictive model. Our best GAN model achieves state-of-the-art accuracy with Frechet Distance (FD) scores of 4.73, 4.89, 5.18, 4.77, 4.71, and 5.55 on the V1-V6 pre-cordial leads respectively and shows strength in preserving the P-Q segments and R-peaks in the generated signals. To the best of our knowledge, ECGNet is the first to predict all of the remaining eleven leads from the input of any single lead. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** EMGTFNet: Fuzzy Vision Transformer to decode Upperlimb sEMG signals for  Hand Gestures Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03754  
**Abstract:** Myoelectric control is an area of electromyography of increasing interest nowadays, particularly in applications such as Hand Gesture Recognition (HGR) for bionic prostheses. Today's focus is on pattern recognition using Machine Learning and, more recently, Deep Learning methods. Despite achieving good results on sparse sEMG signals, the latter models typically require large datasets and training times. Furthermore, due to the nature of stochastic sEMG signals, traditional models fail to generalize samples for atypical or noisy values. In this paper, we propose the design of a Vision Transformer (ViT) based architecture with a Fuzzy Neural Block (FNB) called EMGTFNet to perform Hand Gesture Recognition from surface electromyography (sEMG) signals. The proposed EMGTFNet architecture can accurately classify a variety of hand gestures without any need for data augmentation techniques, transfer learning or a significant increase in the number of parameters in the network. The accuracy of the proposed model is tested using the publicly available NinaPro database consisting of 49 different hand gestures. Experiments yield an average test accuracy of 83.57\% \& 3.5\% using a 200 ms window size and only 56,793 trainable parameters. Our results outperform the ViT without FNB, thus demonstrating that including FNB improves its performance. Our proposal framework EMGTFNet reported the significant potential for its practical application for prosthetic control. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Enhancing Healthcare with EOG: A Novel Approach to Sleep Stage  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03757  
**Abstract:** We introduce an innovative approach to automated sleep stage classification using EOG signals, addressing the discomfort and impracticality associated with EEG data acquisition. In addition, it is important to note that this approach is untapped in the field, highlighting its potential for novel insights and contributions. Our proposed SE-Resnet-Transformer model provides an accurate classification of five distinct sleep stages from raw EOG signal. Extensive validation on publically available databases (SleepEDF-20, SleepEDF-78, and SHHS) reveals noteworthy performance, with macro-F1 scores of 74.72, 70.63, and 69.26, respectively. Our model excels in identifying REM sleep, a crucial aspect of sleep disorder investigations. We also provide insight into the internal mechanisms of our model using techniques such as 1D-GradCAM and t-SNE plots. Our method improves the accessibility of sleep stage classification while decreasing the need for EEG modalities. This development will have promising implications for healthcare and the incorporation of wearable technology into sleep studies, thereby advancing the field's potential for enhanced diagnostics and patient comfort. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Diffusion Random Feature Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.04417  
**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models have been successfully used to generate data from noise. However, most diffusion models are computationally expensive and difficult to interpret with a lack of theoretical justification. Random feature models on the other hand have gained popularity due to their interpretability but their application to complex machine learning tasks remains limited. In this work, we present a diffusion model-inspired deep random feature model that is interpretable and gives comparable numerical results to a fully connected neural network having the same number of trainable parameters. Specifically, we extend existing results for random features and derive generalization bounds between the distribution of sampled data and the true distribution using properties of score matching. We validate our findings by generating samples on the fashion MNIST dataset and instrumental audio data. 

