**ID:** 1  
**Title:** 3D Scene Diffusion Guidance using Scene Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04468  
**Abstract:** Guided synthesis of high-quality 3D scenes is a challenging task. Diffusion models have shown promise in generating diverse data, including 3D scenes. However, current methods rely directly on text embeddings for controlling the generation, limiting the incorporation of complex spatial relationships between objects. We propose a novel approach for 3D scene diffusion guidance using scene graphs. To leverage the relative spatial information the scene graphs provide, we make use of relational graph convolutional blocks within our denoising network. We show that our approach significantly improves the alignment between scene description and generated scene. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** A Comparative Study of Code Generation using ChatGPT 3.5 across 10  Programming Languages  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04477  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) are advanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems that have undergone extensive training using large datasets in order to understand and produce language that closely resembles that of humans. These models have reached a level of proficiency where they are capable of successfully completing university exams across several disciplines and generating functional code to handle novel problems. This research investigates the coding proficiency of ChatGPT 3.5, a LLM released by OpenAI in November 2022, which has gained significant recognition for its impressive text generating and code creation capabilities. The skill of the model in creating code snippets is evaluated across 10 various programming languages and 4 different software domains. Based on the findings derived from this research, major unexpected behaviors and limitations of the model have been identified. This study aims to identify potential areas for development and examine the ramifications of automated code generation on the evolution of programming languages and on the tech industry. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** ChatGPT for Arabic Grammatical Error Correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04492  
**Abstract:** Recently, large language models (LLMs) fine-tuned to follow human instruction have exhibited significant capabilities in various English NLP tasks. However, their performance in grammatical error correction (GEC) tasks, particularly in non-English languages, remains significantly unexplored. In this paper, we delve into abilities of instruction fine-tuned LLMs in Arabic GEC, a task made complex due to Arabic's rich morphology. Our findings suggest that various prompting methods, coupled with (in-context) few-shot learning, demonstrate considerable effectiveness, with GPT-4 achieving up to $65.49$ F\textsubscript{1} score under expert prompting (approximately $5$ points higher than our established baseline). This highlights the potential of LLMs in low-resource settings, offering a viable approach for generating useful synthetic data for model training. Despite these positive results, we find that instruction fine-tuned models, regardless of their size, significantly underperform compared to fully fine-tuned models of significantly smaller sizes. This disparity highlights a substantial room for improvements for LLMs. Inspired by methods from low-resource machine translation, we also develop a method exploiting synthetic data that significantly outperforms previous models on two standard Arabic benchmarks. Our work sets new SoTA for Arabic GEC, with $72.19\%$ and $73.26$ F$_{1}$ on the 2014 and 2015 QALB datasets, respectively. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Capturing Spectral and Long-term Contextual Information for Speech  Emotion Recognition Using Deep Learning Techniques  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04517  
**Abstract:** Traditional approaches in speech emotion recognition, such as LSTM, CNN, RNN, SVM, and MLP, have limitations such as difficulty capturing long-term dependencies in sequential data, capturing the temporal dynamics, and struggling to capture complex patterns and relationships in multimodal data. This research addresses these shortcomings by proposing an ensemble model that combines Graph Convolutional Networks (GCN) for processing textual data and the HuBERT transformer for analyzing audio signals. We found that GCNs excel at capturing Long-term contextual dependencies and relationships within textual data by leveraging graph-based representations of text and thus detecting the contextual meaning and semantic relationships between words. On the other hand, HuBERT utilizes self-attention mechanisms to capture long-range dependencies, enabling the modeling of temporal dynamics present in speech and capturing subtle nuances and variations that contribute to emotion recognition. By combining GCN and HuBERT, our ensemble model can leverage the strengths of both approaches. This allows for the simultaneous analysis of multimodal data, and the fusion of these modalities enables the extraction of complementary information, enhancing the discriminative power of the emotion recognition system. The results indicate that the combined model can overcome the limitations of traditional methods, leading to enhanced accuracy in recognizing emotions from speech. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Ahead of the Text: Leveraging Entity Preposition for Financial Relation  Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04534  
**Abstract:** In the context of the ACM KDF-SIGIR 2023 competition, we undertook an entity relation task on a dataset of financial entity relations called REFind. Our top-performing solution involved a multi-step approach. Initially, we inserted the provided entities at their corresponding locations within the text. Subsequently, we fine-tuned the transformer-based language model roberta-large for text classification by utilizing a labeled training set to predict the entity relations. Lastly, we implemented a post-processing phase to identify and handle improbable predictions generated by the model. As a result of our methodology, we achieved the 1st place ranking on the competition's public leaderboard. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** FocalFormer3D : Focusing on Hard Instance for 3D Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04556  
**Abstract:** False negatives (FN) in 3D object detection, {\em e.g.}, missing predictions of pedestrians, vehicles, or other obstacles, can lead to potentially dangerous situations in autonomous driving. While being fatal, this issue is understudied in many current 3D detection methods. In this work, we propose Hard Instance Probing (HIP), a general pipeline that identifies \textit{FN} in a multi-stage manner and guides the models to focus on excavating difficult instances. For 3D object detection, we instantiate this method as FocalFormer3D, a simple yet effective detector that excels at excavating difficult objects and improving prediction recall. FocalFormer3D features a multi-stage query generation to discover hard objects and a box-level transformer decoder to efficiently distinguish objects from massive object candidates. Experimental results on the nuScenes and Waymo datasets validate the superior performance of FocalFormer3D. The advantage leads to strong performance on both detection and tracking, in both LiDAR and multi-modal settings. Notably, FocalFormer3D achieves a 70.5 mAP and 73.9 NDS on nuScenes detection benchmark, while the nuScenes tracking benchmark shows 72.1 AMOTA, both ranking 1st place on the nuScenes LiDAR leaderboard. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/NVlabs/FocalFormer3D}. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** RECipe: Does a Multi-Modal Recipe Knowledge Graph Fit a Multi-Purpose  Recommendation System?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04579  
**Abstract:** Over the past two decades, recommendation systems (RSs) have used machine learning (ML) solutions to recommend items, e.g., movies, books, and restaurants, to clients of a business or an online platform. Recipe recommendation, however, has not yet received much attention compared to those applications. We introduce RECipe as a multi-purpose recipe recommendation framework with a multi-modal knowledge graph (MMKG) backbone. The motivation behind RECipe is to go beyond (deep) neural collaborative filtering (NCF) by recommending recipes to users when they query in natural language or by providing an image. RECipe consists of 3 subsystems: (1) behavior-based recommender, (2) review-based recommender, and (3) image-based recommender. Each subsystem relies on the embedding representations of entities and relations in the graph. We first obtain (pre-trained) embedding representations of textual entities, such as reviews or ingredients, from a fine-tuned model of Microsoft's MPNet. We initialize the weights of the entities with these embeddings to train our knowledge graph embedding (KGE) model. For the visual component, i.e., recipe images, we develop a KGE-Guided variational autoencoder (KG-VAE) to learn the distribution of images and their latent representations. Once KGE and KG-VAE models are fully trained, we use them as a multi-purpose recommendation framework. For benchmarking, we created two knowledge graphs (KGs) from public datasets on Kaggle for recipe recommendation. Our experiments show that the KGE models have comparable performance to the neural solutions. We also present pre-trained NLP embeddings to address important applications such as zero-shot inference for new users (or the cold start problem) and conditional recommendation with respect to recipe categories. We eventually demonstrate the application of RECipe in a multi-purpose recommendation setting. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Temporal DINO: A Self-supervised Video Strategy to Enhance Action  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04589  
**Abstract:** The emerging field of action prediction plays a vital role in various computer vision applications such as autonomous driving, activity analysis and human-computer interaction. Despite significant advancements, accurately predicting future actions remains a challenging problem due to high dimensionality, complex dynamics and uncertainties inherent in video data. Traditional supervised approaches require large amounts of labelled data, which is expensive and time-consuming to obtain. This paper introduces a novel self-supervised video strategy for enhancing action prediction inspired by DINO (self-distillation with no labels). The Temporal-DINO approach employs two models; a 'student' processing past frames; and a 'teacher' processing both past and future frames, enabling a broader temporal context. During training, the teacher guides the student to learn future context by only observing past frames. The strategy is evaluated on ROAD dataset for the action prediction downstream task using 3D-ResNet, Transformer, and LSTM architectures. The experimental results showcase significant improvements in prediction performance across these architectures, with our method achieving an average enhancement of 9.9% Precision Points (PP), highlighting its effectiveness in enhancing the backbones' capabilities of capturing long-term dependencies. Furthermore, our approach demonstrates efficiency regarding the pretraining dataset size and the number of epochs required. This method overcomes limitations present in other approaches, including considering various backbone architectures, addressing multiple prediction horizons, reducing reliance on hand-crafted augmentations, and streamlining the pretraining process into a single stage. These findings highlight the potential of our approach in diverse video-based tasks such as activity recognition, motion planning, and scene understanding. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Shepherd: A Critic for Language Model Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04592  
**Abstract:** As large language models improve, there is increasing interest in techniques that leverage these models' capabilities to refine their own outputs. In this work, we introduce Shepherd, a language model specifically tuned to critique responses and suggest refinements, extending beyond the capabilities of an untuned model to identify diverse errors and provide suggestions to remedy them. At the core of our approach is a high quality feedback dataset, which we curate from community feedback and human annotations. Even though Shepherd is small (7B parameters), its critiques are either equivalent or preferred to those from established models including ChatGPT. Using GPT-4 for evaluation, Shepherd reaches an average win-rate of 53-87% compared to competitive alternatives. In human evaluation, Shepherd strictly outperforms other models and on average closely ties with ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Accelerating LLM Inference with Staged Speculative Decoding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04623  
**Abstract:** Recent advances with large language models (LLM) illustrate their diverse capabilities. We propose a novel algorithm, staged speculative decoding, to accelerate LLM inference in small-batch, on-device scenarios. We address the low arithmetic intensity of small-batch inference by improving upon previous work in speculative decoding. First, we restructure the speculative batch as a tree, which reduces generation costs and increases the expected tokens per batch. Second, we add a second stage of speculative decoding. Taken together, we reduce single-batch decoding latency by 3.16x with a 762M parameter GPT-2-L model while perfectly preserving output quality. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Instabilities of explicit finite difference schemes with ghost points on  the diffusion equation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04629  
**Abstract:** Ghost, or fictitious points allow to capture boundary conditions that are not located on the finite difference grid discretization. We explore in this paper the impact of ghost points on the stability of the explicit Euler finite difference scheme in the context of the diffusion equation. In particular, we consider the case of a one-touch option under the Black-Scholes model. The observations and results are however valid for a much wider range of financial contracts and models. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Sparse Binary Transformers for Multivariate Time Series Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04637  
**Abstract:** Compressed Neural Networks have the potential to enable deep learning across new applications and smaller computational environments. However, understanding the range of learning tasks in which such models can succeed is not well studied. In this work, we apply sparse and binary-weighted Transformers to multivariate time series problems, showing that the lightweight models achieve accuracy comparable to that of dense floating-point Transformers of the same structure. Our model achieves favorable results across three time series learning tasks: classification, anomaly detection, and single-step forecasting. Additionally, to reduce the computational complexity of the attention mechanism, we apply two modifications, which show little to no decline in model performance: 1) in the classification task, we apply a fixed mask to the query, key, and value activations, and 2) for forecasting and anomaly detection, which rely on predicting outputs at a single point in time, we propose an attention mask to allow computation only at the current time step. Together, each compression technique and attention modification substantially reduces the number of non-zero operations necessary in the Transformer. We measure the computational savings of our approach over a range of metrics including parameter count, bit size, and floating point operation (FLOPs) count, showing up to a 53x reduction in storage size and up to 10.5x reduction in FLOPs. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Which Tokens to Use? Investigating Token Reduction in Vision  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04657  
**Abstract:** Since the introduction of the Vision Transformer (ViT), researchers have sought to make ViTs more efficient by removing redundant information in the processed tokens. While different methods have been explored to achieve this goal, we still lack understanding of the resulting reduction patterns and how those patterns differ across token reduction methods and datasets. To close this gap, we set out to understand the reduction patterns of 10 different token reduction methods using four image classification datasets. By systematically comparing these methods on the different classification tasks, we find that the Top-K pruning method is a surprisingly strong baseline. Through in-depth analysis of the different methods, we determine that: the reduction patterns are generally not consistent when varying the capacity of the backbone model, the reduction patterns of pruning-based methods significantly differ from fixed radial patterns, and the reduction patterns of pruning-based methods are correlated across classification datasets. Finally we report that the similarity of reduction patterns is a moderate-to-strong proxy for model performance. Project page at https://vap.aau.dk/tokens. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Efficient Bayesian Optimization with Deep Kernel Learning and  Transformer Pre-trained on Multiple Heterogeneous Datasets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04660  
**Abstract:** Bayesian optimization (BO) is widely adopted in black-box optimization problems and it relies on a surrogate model to approximate the black-box response function. With the increasing number of black-box optimization tasks solved and even more to solve, the ability to learn from multiple prior tasks to jointly pre-train a surrogate model is long-awaited to further boost optimization efficiency. In this paper, we propose a simple approach to pre-train a surrogate, which is a Gaussian process (GP) with a kernel defined on deep features learned from a Transformer-based encoder, using datasets from prior tasks with possibly heterogeneous input spaces. In addition, we provide a simple yet effective mix-up initialization strategy for input tokens corresponding to unseen input variables and therefore accelerate new tasks' convergence. Experiments on both synthetic and real benchmark problems demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed pre-training and transfer BO strategy over existing methods. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** A General Implicit Framework for Fast NeRF Composition and Rendering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04669  
**Abstract:** Recently, a variety of Neural radiance fields methods have garnered remarkable success in high render speed. However, current accelerating methods is specialized and not compatible for various implicit method, which prevent a real-time composition over different kinds of NeRF works. Since NeRF relies on sampling along rays, it's possible to provide a guidance generally. We propose a general implicit pipeline to rapidly compose NeRF objects. This new method enables the casting of dynamic shadows within or between objects using analytical light sources while allowing multiple NeRF objects to be seamlessly placed and rendered together with any arbitrary rigid transformations. Mainly, our work introduces a new surface representation known as Neural Depth Fields (NeDF) that quickly determines the spatial relationship between objects by allowing direct intersection computation between rays and implicit surfaces. It leverages an intersection neural network to query NeRF for acceleration instead of depending on an explicit spatial structure.Our proposed method is the first to enable both the progressive and interactive composition of NeRF objects. Additionally, it also serves as a previewing plugin for a range of existing NeRF works. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** GIFD: A Generative Gradient Inversion Method with Feature Domain  Optimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04699  
**Abstract:** Federated Learning (FL) has recently emerged as a promising distributed machine learning framework to preserve clients' privacy, by allowing multiple clients to upload the gradients calculated from their local data to a central server. Recent studies find that the exchanged gradients also take the risk of privacy leakage, e.g., an attacker can invert the shared gradients and recover sensitive data against an FL system by leveraging pre-trained generative adversarial networks (GAN) as prior knowledge. However, performing gradient inversion attacks in the latent space of the GAN model limits their expression ability and generalizability. To tackle these challenges, we propose \textbf{G}radient \textbf{I}nversion over \textbf{F}eature \textbf{D}omains (GIFD), which disassembles the GAN model and searches the feature domains of the intermediate layers. Instead of optimizing only over the initial latent code, we progressively change the optimized layer, from the initial latent space to intermediate layers closer to the output images. In addition, we design a regularizer to avoid unreal image generation by adding a small ${l_1}$ ball constraint to the searching range. We also extend GIFD to the out-of-distribution (OOD) setting, which weakens the assumption that the training sets of GANs and FL tasks obey the same data distribution. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can achieve pixel-level reconstruction and is superior to the existing methods. Notably, GIFD also shows great generalizability under different defense strategy settings and batch sizes. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** A Comparative Study of Open-Source Large Language Models, GPT-4 and  Claude 2: Multiple-Choice Test Taking in Nephrology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04709  
**Abstract:** In recent years, there have been significant breakthroughs in the field of natural language processing, particularly with the development of large language models (LLMs). These LLMs have showcased remarkable capabilities on various benchmarks. In the healthcare field, the exact role LLMs and other future AI models will play remains unclear. There is a potential for these models in the future to be used as part of adaptive physician training, medical co-pilot applications, and digital patient interaction scenarios. The ability of AI models to participate in medical training and patient care will depend in part on their mastery of the knowledge content of specific medical fields. This study investigated the medical knowledge capability of LLMs, specifically in the context of internal medicine subspecialty multiple-choice test-taking ability. We compared the performance of several open-source LLMs (Koala 7B, Falcon 7B, Stable-Vicuna 13B, and Orca Mini 13B), to GPT-4 and Claude 2 on multiple-choice questions in the field of Nephrology. Nephrology was chosen as an example of a particularly conceptually complex subspecialty field within internal medicine. The study was conducted to evaluate the ability of LLM models to provide correct answers to nephSAP (Nephrology Self-Assessment Program) multiple-choice questions. The overall success of open-sourced LLMs in answering the 858 nephSAP multiple-choice questions correctly was 17.1% - 25.5%. In contrast, Claude 2 answered 54.4% of the questions correctly, whereas GPT-4 achieved a score of 73.3%. We show that current widely used open-sourced LLMs do poorly in their ability for zero-shot reasoning when compared to GPT-4 and Claude 2. The findings of this study potentially have significant implications for the future of subspecialty medical training and patient care. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Self-supervised Learning of Rotation-invariant 3D Point Set Features  using Transformer and its Self-distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04725  
**Abstract:** Invariance against rotations of 3D objects is an important property in analyzing 3D point set data. Conventional 3D point set DNNs having rotation invariance typically obtain accurate 3D shape features via supervised learning by using labeled 3D point sets as training samples. However, due to the rapid increase in 3D point set data and the high cost of labeling, a framework to learn rotation-invariant 3D shape features from numerous unlabeled 3D point sets is required. This paper proposes a novel self-supervised learning framework for acquiring accurate and rotation-invariant 3D point set features at object-level. Our proposed lightweight DNN architecture decomposes an input 3D point set into multiple global-scale regions, called tokens, that preserve the spatial layout of partial shapes composing the 3D object. We employ a self-attention mechanism to refine the tokens and aggregate them into an expressive rotation-invariant feature per 3D point set. Our DNN is effectively trained by using pseudo-labels generated by a self-distillation framework. To facilitate the learning of accurate features, we propose to combine multi-crop and cut-mix data augmentation techniques to diversify 3D point sets for training. Through a comprehensive evaluation, we empirically demonstrate that, (1) existing rotation-invariant DNN architectures designed for supervised learning do not necessarily learn accurate 3D shape features under a self-supervised learning scenario, and (2) our proposed algorithm learns rotation-invariant 3D point set features that are more accurate than those learned by existing algorithms. Code will be available at https://github.com/takahikof/RIPT_SDMM 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** JEN-1: Text-Guided Universal Music Generation with Omnidirectional  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04729  
**Abstract:** Music generation has attracted growing interest with the advancement of deep generative models. However, generating music conditioned on textual descriptions, known as text-to-music, remains challenging due to the complexity of musical structures and high sampling rate requirements. Despite the task's significance, prevailing generative models exhibit limitations in music quality, computational efficiency, and generalization. This paper introduces JEN-1, a universal high-fidelity model for text-to-music generation. JEN-1 is a diffusion model incorporating both autoregressive and non-autoregressive training. Through in-context learning, JEN-1 performs various generation tasks including text-guided music generation, music inpainting, and continuation. Evaluations demonstrate JEN-1's superior performance over state-of-the-art methods in text-music alignment and music quality while maintaining computational efficiency. Our demos are available at 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Going Deeper with Five-point Stencil Convolutions for Reaction-Diffusion  Equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04735  
**Abstract:** Physics-informed neural networks have been widely applied to partial differential equations with great success because the physics-informed loss essentially requires no observations or discretization. However, it is difficult to optimize model parameters, and these parameters must be trained for each distinct initial condition. To overcome these challenges in second-order reaction-diffusion type equations, a possible way is to use five-point stencil convolutional neural networks (FCNNs). FCNNs are trained using two consecutive snapshots, where the time step corresponds to the step size of the given snapshots. Thus, the time evolution of FCNNs depends on the time step, and the time step must satisfy its CFL condition to avoid blow-up solutions. In this work, we propose deep FCNNs that have large receptive fields to predict time evolutions with a time step larger than the threshold of the CFL condition. To evaluate our models, we consider the heat, Fisher's, and Allen-Cahn equations with diverse initial conditions. We demonstrate that deep FCNNs retain certain accuracies, in contrast to FDMs that blow up. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** PETformer: Long-term Time Series Forecasting via Placeholder-enhanced  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04791  
**Abstract:** Recently, Transformer-based models have shown remarkable performance in long-term time series forecasting (LTSF) tasks due to their ability to model long-term dependencies. However, the validity of Transformers for LTSF tasks remains debatable, particularly since recent work has shown that simple linear models can outperform numerous Transformer-based approaches. This suggests that there are limitations to the application of Transformer in LTSF. Therefore, this paper investigates three key issues when applying Transformer to LTSF: temporal continuity, information density, and multi-channel relationships. Accordingly, we propose three innovative solutions, including Placeholder Enhancement Technique (PET), Long Sub-sequence Division (LSD), and Multi-channel Separation and Interaction (MSI), which together form a novel model called PETformer. These three key designs introduce prior biases suitable for LTSF tasks. Extensive experiments have demonstrated that PETformer achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on eight commonly used public datasets for LTSF, outperforming all other models currently available. This demonstrates that Transformer still possesses powerful capabilities in LTSF. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Joint-Relation Transformer for Multi-Person Motion Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04808  
**Abstract:** Multi-person motion prediction is a challenging problem due to the dependency of motion on both individual past movements and interactions with other people. Transformer-based methods have shown promising results on this task, but they miss the explicit relation representation between joints, such as skeleton structure and pairwise distance, which is crucial for accurate interaction modeling. In this paper, we propose the Joint-Relation Transformer, which utilizes relation information to enhance interaction modeling and improve future motion prediction. Our relation information contains the relative distance and the intra-/inter-person physical constraints. To fuse relation and joint information, we design a novel joint-relation fusion layer with relation-aware attention to update both features. Additionally, we supervise the relation information by forecasting future distance. Experiments show that our method achieves a 13.4% improvement of 900ms VIM on 3DPW-SoMoF/RC and 17.8%/12.0% improvement of 3s MPJPE on CMU-Mpcap/MuPoTS-3D dataset. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** A Bipartite Graph is All We Need for Enhancing Emotional Reasoning with  Commonsense Knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04811  
**Abstract:** The context-aware emotional reasoning ability of AI systems, especially in conversations, is of vital importance in applications such as online opinion mining from social media and empathetic dialogue systems. Due to the implicit nature of conveying emotions in many scenarios, commonsense knowledge is widely utilized to enrich utterance semantics and enhance conversation modeling. However, most previous knowledge infusion methods perform empirical knowledge filtering and design highly customized architectures for knowledge interaction with the utterances, which can discard useful knowledge aspects and limit their generalizability to different knowledge sources. Based on these observations, we propose a Bipartite Heterogeneous Graph (BHG) method for enhancing emotional reasoning with commonsense knowledge. In BHG, the extracted context-aware utterance representations and knowledge representations are modeled as heterogeneous nodes. Two more knowledge aggregation node types are proposed to perform automatic knowledge filtering and interaction. BHG-based knowledge infusion can be directly generalized to multi-type and multi-grained knowledge sources. In addition, we propose a Multi-dimensional Heterogeneous Graph Transformer (MHGT) to perform graph reasoning, which can retain unchanged feature spaces and unequal dimensions for heterogeneous node types during inference to prevent unnecessary loss of information. Experiments show that BHG-based methods significantly outperform state-of-the-art knowledge infusion methods and show generalized knowledge infusion ability with higher efficiency. Further analysis proves that previous empirical knowledge filtering methods do not guarantee to provide the most useful knowledge information. Our code is available at: https://github.com/SteveKGYang/BHG. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** WaveNeRF: Wavelet-based Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04826  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has shown impressive performance in novel view synthesis via implicit scene representation. However, it usually suffers from poor scalability as requiring densely sampled images for each new scene. Several studies have attempted to mitigate this problem by integrating Multi-View Stereo (MVS) technique into NeRF while they still entail a cumbersome fine-tuning process for new scenes. Notably, the rendering quality will drop severely without this fine-tuning process and the errors mainly appear around the high-frequency features. In the light of this observation, we design WaveNeRF, which integrates wavelet frequency decomposition into MVS and NeRF to achieve generalizable yet high-quality synthesis without any per-scene optimization. To preserve high-frequency information when generating 3D feature volumes, WaveNeRF builds Multi-View Stereo in the Wavelet domain by integrating the discrete wavelet transform into the classical cascade MVS, which disentangles high-frequency information explicitly. With that, disentangled frequency features can be injected into classic NeRF via a novel hybrid neural renderer to yield faithful high-frequency details, and an intuitive frequency-guided sampling strategy can be designed to suppress artifacts around high-frequency regions. Extensive experiments over three widely studied benchmarks show that WaveNeRF achieves superior generalizable radiance field modeling when only given three images as input. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Seeing in Flowing: Adapting CLIP for Action Recognition with Motion  Prompts Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04828  
**Abstract:** The Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has recently shown remarkable generalization on "zero-shot" training and has applied to many downstream tasks. We explore the adaptation of CLIP to achieve a more efficient and generalized action recognition method. We propose that the key lies in explicitly modeling the motion cues flowing in video frames. To that end, we design a two-stream motion modeling block to capture motion and spatial information at the same time. And then, the obtained motion cues are utilized to drive a dynamic prompts learner to generate motion-aware prompts, which contain much semantic information concerning human actions. In addition, we propose a multimodal communication block to achieve a collaborative learning and further improve the performance. We conduct extensive experiments on HMDB-51, UCF-101, and Kinetics-400 datasets. Our method outperforms most existing state-of-the-art methods by a significant margin on "few-shot" and "zero-shot" training. We also achieve competitive performance on "closed-set" training with extremely few trainable parameters and additional computational costs. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** No Need to Lift a Finger Anymore? Assessing the Quality of Code  Generation by ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04838  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, such as machine translation, question answering, summarization, and so on. Additionally, LLMs are also highly valuable in supporting software engineering tasks, particularly in the field of code generation. Automatic code generation is a process of automatically generating source code or executable code based on given specifications or requirements, improving developer productivity. In this study, we perform a systematic empirical assessment of code generation using ChatGPT, a recent and popular LLM. Our evaluation encompasses a comprehensive analysis of code snippets generated by ChatGPT, focusing on three critical aspects: correctness, understandability, and security. We also specifically investigate ChatGPT's ability to engage in multi-round process (i.e., ChatGPT's dialog ability) of facilitating code generation. By delving into the generated code and examining the experimental results, this work provides valuable insights into the performance of ChatGPT in tackling code generation tasks. Overall, our findings uncover potential issues and limitations that arise in the ChatGPT-based code generation and lay the groundwork for improving AI and LLM-based code generation techniques. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Unsupervised Out-of-Distribution Dialect Detection with Mahalanobis  Distance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04886  
**Abstract:** Dialect classification is used in a variety of applications, such as machine translation and speech recognition, to improve the overall performance of the system. In a real-world scenario, a deployed dialect classification model can encounter anomalous inputs that differ from the training data distribution, also called out-of-distribution (OOD) samples. Those OOD samples can lead to unexpected outputs, as dialects of those samples are unseen during model training. Out-of-distribution detection is a new research area that has received little attention in the context of dialect classification. Towards this, we proposed a simple yet effective unsupervised Mahalanobis distance feature-based method to detect out-of-distribution samples. We utilize the latent embeddings from all intermediate layers of a wav2vec 2.0 transformer-based dialect classifier model for multi-task learning. Our proposed approach outperforms other state-of-the-art OOD detection methods significantly. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** NLLG Quarterly arXiv Report 06/23: What are the most influential current  AI Papers?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04889  
**Abstract:** The rapid growth of information in the field of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), particularly in the subfields of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML), presents a significant challenge for researchers and practitioners to keep pace with the latest developments. To address the problem of information overload, this report by the Natural Language Learning Group at Bielefeld University focuses on identifying the most popular papers on arXiv, with a specific emphasis on NLP and ML. The objective is to offer a quick guide to the most relevant and widely discussed research, aiding both newcomers and established researchers in staying abreast of current trends. In particular, we compile a list of the 40 most popular papers based on normalized citation counts from the first half of 2023. We observe the dominance of papers related to Large Language Models (LLMs) and specifically ChatGPT during the first half of 2023, with the latter showing signs of declining popularity more recently, however. Further, NLP related papers are the most influential (around 60\% of top papers) even though there are twice as many ML related papers in our data. Core issues investigated in the most heavily cited papers are: LLM efficiency, evaluation techniques, ethical considerations, embodied agents, and problem-solving with LLMs. Additionally, we examine the characteristics of top papers in comparison to others outside the top-40 list (noticing the top paper's focus on LLM related issues and higher number of co-authors) and analyze the citation distributions in our dataset, among others. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** An Empirical Study on Using Large Language Models to Analyze Software  Supply Chain Security Failures  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04898  
**Abstract:** As we increasingly depend on software systems, the consequences of breaches in the software supply chain become more severe. High-profile cyber attacks like those on SolarWinds and ShadowHammer have resulted in significant financial and data losses, underlining the need for stronger cybersecurity. One way to prevent future breaches is by studying past failures. However, traditional methods of analyzing these failures require manually reading and summarizing reports about them. Automated support could reduce costs and allow analysis of more failures. Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques such as Large Language Models (LLMs) could be leveraged to assist the analysis of failures. In this study, we assessed the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to analyze historical software supply chain breaches. We used LLMs to replicate the manual analysis of 69 software supply chain security failures performed by members of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF). We developed prompts for LLMs to categorize these by four dimensions: type of compromise, intent, nature, and impact. GPT 3.5s categorizations had an average accuracy of 68% and Bard had an accuracy of 58% over these dimensions. We report that LLMs effectively characterize software supply chain failures when the source articles are detailed enough for consensus among manual analysts, but cannot yet replace human analysts. Future work can improve LLM performance in this context, and study a broader range of articles and failures. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** LLaMA-E: Empowering E-commerce Authoring with Multi-Aspect Instruction  Following  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04913  
**Abstract:** E-commerce authoring involves creating attractive, abundant, and targeted promotional content to drive product sales. The emergence of large language models (LLMs) introduces an innovative paradigm, offering a unified solution to address various authoring tasks within this scenario. However, mainstream LLMs trained on general corpora with common sense knowledge reveal limitations in fitting complex and personalized features unique to e-commerce products and customers. Furthermore, LLMs like GPT-3.5 necessitate remote accessibility, raising concerns about safeguarding voluminous customer privacy data during transmission. This paper proposes the LLaMA-E, the unified and customized instruction-following language models focusing on diverse e-commerce authoring tasks. Specifically, the domain experts create the seed instruction set from the tasks of ads generation, query-enhanced product title rewriting, product classification, purchase intent speculation, and general Q&A. These tasks enable the models to comprehensively understand precise e-commerce authoring knowledge by interleaving features covering typical service aspects of customers, sellers, and platforms. The GPT-3.5 is introduced as a teacher model, which expands the seed instructions to form a training set for the LLaMA-E models with various scales. The experimental results show that the proposed LLaMA-E models achieve state-of-the-art results in quantitative and qualitative evaluations, also exhibiting the advantage in zero-shot scenes. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to serve the LLMs to specific e-commerce authoring scenarios. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** LLMeBench: A Flexible Framework for Accelerating LLMs Benchmarking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04945  
**Abstract:** The recent development and success of Large Language Models (LLMs) necessitate an evaluation of their performance across diverse NLP tasks in different languages. Although several frameworks have been developed and made publicly available, their customization capabilities for specific tasks and datasets are often complex for different users. In this study, we introduce the LLMeBench framework. Initially developed to evaluate Arabic NLP tasks using OpenAI's GPT and BLOOM models; it can be seamlessly customized for any NLP task and model, regardless of language. The framework also features zero- and few-shot learning settings. A new custom dataset can be added in less than 10 minutes, and users can use their own model API keys to evaluate the task at hand. The developed framework has been already tested on 31 unique NLP tasks using 53 publicly available datasets within 90 experimental setups, involving approximately 296K data points. We plan to open-source the framework for the community (https://github.com/qcri/LLMeBench/). A video demonstrating the framework is available online (https://youtu.be/FkQn4UjYA0s). 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Performance Analysis of Transformer Based Models (BERT, ALBERT and  RoBERTa) in Fake News Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04950  
**Abstract:** Fake news is fake material in a news media format but is not processed properly by news agencies. The fake material can provoke or defame significant entities or individuals or potentially even for the personal interests of the creators, causing problems for society. Distinguishing fake news and real news is challenging due to limited of domain knowledge and time constraints. According to the survey, the top three areas most exposed to hoaxes and misinformation by residents are in Banten, DKI Jakarta and West Java. The model of transformers is referring to an approach in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) in natural language processing utilizing the deep learning architectures. Transformers exercise a powerful attention mechanism to process text in parallel and produce rich and contextual word representations. A previous study indicates a superior performance of a transformer model known as BERT over and above non transformer approach. However, some studies suggest the performance can be improved with the use of improved BERT models known as ALBERT and RoBERTa. However, the modified BERT models are not well explored for detecting fake news in Bahasa Indonesia. In this research, we explore those transformer models and found that ALBERT outperformed other models with 87.6% accuracy, 86.9% precision, 86.9% F1-score, and 174.5 run-time (s/epoch) respectively. Source code available at: https://github.com/Shafna81/fakenewsdetection.git 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** CasCIFF: A Cross-Domain Information Fusion Framework Tailored for  Cascade Prediction in Social Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04961  
**Abstract:** Existing approaches for information cascade prediction fall into three main categories: feature-driven methods, point process-based methods, and deep learning-based methods. Among them, deep learning-based methods, characterized by its superior learning and representation capabilities, mitigates the shortcomings inherent of the other methods. However, current deep learning methods still face several persistent challenges. In particular, accurate representation of user attributes remains problematic due to factors such as fake followers and complex network configurations. Previous algorithms that focus on the sequential order of user activations often neglect the rich insights offered by activation timing. Furthermore, these techniques often fail to holistically integrate temporal and structural aspects, thus missing the nuanced propagation trends inherent in information cascades.To address these issues, we propose the Cross-Domain Information Fusion Framework (CasCIFF), which is tailored for information cascade prediction. This framework exploits multi-hop neighborhood information to make user embeddings robust. When embedding cascades, the framework intentionally incorporates timestamps, endowing it with the ability to capture evolving patterns of information diffusion. In particular, the CasCIFF seamlessly integrates the tasks of user classification and cascade prediction into a consolidated framework, thereby allowing the extraction of common features that prove useful for all tasks, a strategy anchored in the principles of multi-task learning. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** IDiff-Face: Synthetic-based Face Recognition through Fizzy  Identity-Conditioned Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04995  
**Abstract:** The availability of large-scale authentic face databases has been crucial to the significant advances made in face recognition research over the past decade. However, legal and ethical concerns led to the recent retraction of many of these databases by their creators, raising questions about the continuity of future face recognition research without one of its key resources. Synthetic datasets have emerged as a promising alternative to privacy-sensitive authentic data for face recognition development. However, recent synthetic datasets that are used to train face recognition models suffer either from limitations in intra-class diversity or cross-class (identity) discrimination, leading to less optimal accuracies, far away from the accuracies achieved by models trained on authentic data. This paper targets this issue by proposing IDiff-Face, a novel approach based on conditional latent diffusion models for synthetic identity generation with realistic identity variations for face recognition training. Through extensive evaluations, our proposed synthetic-based face recognition approach pushed the limits of state-of-the-art performances, achieving, for example, 98.00% accuracy on the Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW) benchmark, far ahead from the recent synthetic-based face recognition solutions with 95.40% and bridging the gap to authentic-based face recognition with 99.82% accuracy. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Do Diffusion Models Suffer Error Propagation? Theoretical Analysis and  Consistency Regularization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05021  
**Abstract:** While diffusion models have achieved promising performances in data synthesis, they might suffer error propagation because of their cascade structure, where the distributional mismatch spreads and magnifies through the chain of denoising modules. However, a strict analysis is expected since many sequential models such as Conditional Random Field (CRF) are free from error propagation. In this paper, we empirically and theoretically verify that diffusion models are indeed affected by error propagation and we then propose a regularization to address this problem. Our theoretical analysis reveals that the question can be reduced to whether every denoising module of the diffusion model is fault-tolerant. We derive insightful transition equations, indicating that the module can't recover from input errors and even propagates additional errors to the next module. Our analysis directly leads to a consistency regularization scheme for diffusion models, which explicitly reduces the distribution gap between forward and backward processes. We further introduce a bootstrapping algorithm to reduce the computation cost of the regularizer. Our experimental results on multiple image datasets show that our regularization effectively handles error propagation and significantly improves the performance of vanilla diffusion models. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Feature Modulation Transformer: Cross-Refinement of Global  Representation via High-Frequency Prior for Image Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05022  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based methods have exhibited remarkable potential in single image super-resolution (SISR) by effectively extracting long-range dependencies. However, most of the current research in this area has prioritized the design of transformer blocks to capture global information, while overlooking the importance of incorporating high-frequency priors, which we believe could be beneficial. In our study, we conducted a series of experiments and found that transformer structures are more adept at capturing low-frequency information, but have limited capacity in constructing high-frequency representations when compared to their convolutional counterparts. Our proposed solution, the cross-refinement adaptive feature modulation transformer (CRAFT), integrates the strengths of both convolutional and transformer structures. It comprises three key components: the high-frequency enhancement residual block (HFERB) for extracting high-frequency information, the shift rectangle window attention block (SRWAB) for capturing global information, and the hybrid fusion block (HFB) for refining the global representation. Our experiments on multiple datasets demonstrate that CRAFT outperforms state-of-the-art methods by up to 0.29dB while using fewer parameters. The source code will be made available at: https://github.com/AVC2-UESTC/CRAFT-SR.git. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** PAT: Position-Aware Transformer for Dense Multi-Label Action Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05051  
**Abstract:** We present PAT, a transformer-based network that learns complex temporal co-occurrence action dependencies in a video by exploiting multi-scale temporal features. In existing methods, the self-attention mechanism in transformers loses the temporal positional information, which is essential for robust action detection. To address this issue, we (i) embed relative positional encoding in the self-attention mechanism and (ii) exploit multi-scale temporal relationships by designing a novel non hierarchical network, in contrast to the recent transformer-based approaches that use a hierarchical structure. We argue that joining the self-attention mechanism with multiple sub-sampling processes in the hierarchical approaches results in increased loss of positional information. We evaluate the performance of our proposed approach on two challenging dense multi-label benchmark datasets, and show that PAT improves the current state-of-the-art result by 1.1% and 0.6% mAP on the Charades and MultiTHUMOS datasets, respectively, thereby achieving the new state-of-the-art mAP at 26.5% and 44.6%, respectively. We also perform extensive ablation studies to examine the impact of the different components of our proposed network. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** LayoutLLM-T2I: Eliciting Layout Guidance from LLM for Text-to-Image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05095  
**Abstract:** In the text-to-image generation field, recent remarkable progress in Stable Diffusion makes it possible to generate rich kinds of novel photorealistic images. However, current models still face misalignment issues (e.g., problematic spatial relation understanding and numeration failure) in complex natural scenes, which impedes the high-faithfulness text-to-image generation. Although recent efforts have been made to improve controllability by giving fine-grained guidance (e.g., sketch and scribbles), this issue has not been fundamentally tackled since users have to provide such guidance information manually. In this work, we strive to synthesize high-fidelity images that are semantically aligned with a given textual prompt without any guidance. Toward this end, we propose a coarse-to-fine paradigm to achieve layout planning and image generation. Concretely, we first generate the coarse-grained layout conditioned on a given textual prompt via in-context learning based on Large Language Models. Afterward, we propose a fine-grained object-interaction diffusion method to synthesize high-faithfulness images conditioned on the prompt and the automatically generated layout. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art models in terms of layout and image generation. Our code and settings are available at \url{https://layoutllm-t2i.github.io}. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** PSRFlow: Probabilistic Super Resolution with Flow-Based Models for  Scientific Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04605  
**Abstract:** Although many deep-learning-based super-resolution approaches have been proposed in recent years, because no ground truth is available in the inference stage, few can quantify the errors and uncertainties of the super-resolved results. For scientific visualization applications, however, conveying uncertainties of the results to scientists is crucial to avoid generating misleading or incorrect information. In this paper, we propose PSRFlow, a novel normalizing flow-based generative model for scientific data super-resolution that incorporates uncertainty quantification into the super-resolution process. PSRFlow learns the conditional distribution of the high-resolution data based on the low-resolution counterpart. By sampling from a Gaussian latent space that captures the missing information in the high-resolution data, one can generate different plausible super-resolution outputs. The efficient sampling in the Gaussian latent space allows our model to perform uncertainty quantification for the super-resolved results. During model training, we augment the training data with samples across various scales to make the model adaptable to data of different scales, achieving flexible super-resolution for a given input. Our results demonstrate superior performance and robust uncertainty quantification compared with existing methods such as interpolation and GAN-based super-resolution networks. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Optimizing a Transformer-based network for a deep learning seismic  processing workflow  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04739  
**Abstract:** StorSeismic is a recently introduced model based on the Transformer to adapt to various seismic processing tasks through its pretraining and fine-tuning training strategy. In the original implementation, StorSeismic utilized a sinusoidal positional encoding and a conventional self-attention mechanism, both borrowed from the natural language processing (NLP) applications. For seismic processing they admitted good results, but also hinted to limitations in efficiency and expressiveness. We propose modifications to these two key components, by utilizing relative positional encoding and low-rank attention matrices as replacements to the vanilla ones. The proposed changes are tested on processing tasks applied to a realistic Marmousi and offshore field data as a sequential strategy, starting from denoising, direct arrival removal, multiple attenuation, and finally root-mean-squared velocity ($V_{RMS}$) prediction for normal moveout (NMO) correction. We observe faster pretraining and competitive results on the fine-tuning tasks and, additionally, fewer parameters to train compared to the vanilla model. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Deep Generative Networks for Heterogeneous Augmentation of Cranial  Defects  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.04883  
**Abstract:** The design of personalized cranial implants is a challenging and tremendous task that has become a hot topic in terms of process automation with the use of deep learning techniques. The main challenge is associated with the high diversity of possible cranial defects. The lack of appropriate data sources negatively influences the data-driven nature of deep learning algorithms. Hence, one of the possible solutions to overcome this problem is to rely on synthetic data. In this work, we propose three volumetric variations of deep generative models to augment the dataset by generating synthetic skulls, i.e. Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Network with Gradient Penalty (WGAN-GP), WGAN-GP hybrid with Variational Autoencoder pretraining (VAE/WGAN-GP) and Introspective Variational Autoencoder (IntroVAE). We show that it is possible to generate dozens of thousands of defective skulls with compatible defects that achieve a trade-off between defect heterogeneity and the realistic shape of the skull. We evaluate obtained synthetic data quantitatively by defect segmentation with the use of V-Net and qualitatively by their latent space exploration. We show that the synthetically generated skulls highly improve the segmentation process compared to using only the original unaugmented data. The generated skulls may improve the automatic design of personalized cranial implants for real medical cases. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** AbDiffuser: Full-Atom Generation of In-Vitro Functioning Antibodies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05027  
**Abstract:** We introduce AbDiffuser, an equivariant and physics-informed diffusion model for the joint generation of antibody 3D structures and sequences. AbDiffuser is built on top of a new representation of protein structure, relies on a novel architecture for aligned proteins, and utilizes strong diffusion priors to improve the denoising process. Our approach improves protein diffusion by taking advantage of domain knowledge and physics-based constraints; handles sequence-length changes; and reduces memory complexity by an order of magnitude enabling backbone and side chain generation. We validate AbDiffuser in silico and in vitro. Numerical experiments showcase the ability of AbDiffuser to generate antibodies that closely track the sequence and structural properties of a reference set. Laboratory experiments confirm that all 16 HER2 antibodies discovered were expressed at high levels and that 57.1% of selected designs were tight binders. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Geometric Learning-Based Transformer Network for Estimation of  Segmentation Errors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05068  
**Abstract:** Many segmentation networks have been proposed for 3D volumetric segmentation of tumors and organs at risk. Hospitals and clinical institutions seek to accelerate and minimize the efforts of specialists in image segmentation. Still, in case of errors generated by these networks, clinicians would have to manually edit the generated segmentation maps. Given a 3D volume and its putative segmentation map, we propose an approach to identify and measure erroneous regions in the segmentation map. Our method can estimate error at any point or node in a 3D mesh generated from a possibly erroneous volumetric segmentation map, serving as a Quality Assurance tool. We propose a graph neural network-based transformer based on the Nodeformer architecture to measure and classify the segmentation errors at any point. We have evaluated our network on a high-resolution micro-CT dataset of the human inner-ear bony labyrinth structure by simulating erroneous 3D segmentation maps. Our network incorporates a convolutional encoder to compute node-centric features from the input micro-CT data, the Nodeformer to learn the latent graph embeddings, and a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) to compute and classify the node-wise errors. Our network achieves a mean absolute error of ~0.042 over other Graph Neural Networks (GNN) and an accuracy of 79.53% over other GNNs in estimating and classifying the node-wise errors, respectively. We also put forth vertex-normal prediction as a custom pretext task for pre-training the CNN encoder to improve the network's overall performance. Qualitative analysis shows the efficiency of our network in correctly classifying errors and reducing misclassifications. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Improved Multi-Shot Diffusion-Weighted MRI with Zero-Shot  Self-Supervised Learning Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05103  
**Abstract:** Diffusion MRI is commonly performed using echo-planar imaging (EPI) due to its rapid acquisition time. However, the resolution of diffusion-weighted images is often limited by magnetic field inhomogeneity-related artifacts and blurring induced by T2- and T2*-relaxation effects. To address these limitations, multi-shot EPI (msEPI) combined with parallel imaging techniques is frequently employed. Nevertheless, reconstructing msEPI can be challenging due to phase variation between multiple shots. In this study, we introduce a novel msEPI reconstruction approach called zero-MIRID (zero-shot self-supervised learning of Multi-shot Image Reconstruction for Improved Diffusion MRI). This method jointly reconstructs msEPI data by incorporating deep learning-based image regularization techniques. The network incorporates CNN denoisers in both k- and image-spaces, while leveraging virtual coils to enhance image reconstruction conditioning. By employing a self-supervised learning technique and dividing sampled data into three groups, the proposed approach achieves superior results compared to the state-of-the-art parallel imaging method, as demonstrated in an in-vivo experiment. 

