**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Can Attention Be Used to Explain EHR-Based Mortality Prediction Tasks: A  Case Study on Hemorrhagic Stroke  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05110  
**Abstract:** Stroke is a significant cause of mortality and morbidity, necessitating early predictive strategies to minimize risks. Traditional methods for evaluating patients, such as Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II, IV) and Simplified Acute Physiology Score III (SAPS III), have limited accuracy and interpretability. This paper proposes a novel approach: an interpretable, attention-based transformer model for early stroke mortality prediction. This model seeks to address the limitations of previous predictive models, providing both interpretability (providing clear, understandable explanations of the model) and fidelity (giving a truthful explanation of the model's dynamics from input to output). Furthermore, the study explores and compares fidelity and interpretability scores using Shapley values and attention-based scores to improve model explainability. The research objectives include designing an interpretable attention-based transformer model, evaluating its performance compared to existing models, and providing feature importance derived from the model. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Robust Object Modeling for Visual Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05140  
**Abstract:** Object modeling has become a core part of recent tracking frameworks. Current popular tackers use Transformer attention to extract the template feature separately or interactively with the search region. However, separate template learning lacks communication between the template and search regions, which brings difficulty in extracting discriminative target-oriented features. On the other hand, interactive template learning produces hybrid template features, which may introduce potential distractors to the template via the cluttered search regions. To enjoy the merits of both methods, we propose a robust object modeling framework for visual tracking (ROMTrack), which simultaneously models the inherent template and the hybrid template features. As a result, harmful distractors can be suppressed by combining the inherent features of target objects with search regions' guidance. Target-related features can also be extracted using the hybrid template, thus resulting in a more robust object modeling framework. To further enhance robustness, we present novel variation tokens to depict the ever-changing appearance of target objects. Variation tokens are adaptable to object deformation and appearance variations, which can boost overall performance with negligible computation. Experiments show that our ROMTrack sets a new state-of-the-art on multiple benchmarks. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** PromptPaint: Steering Text-to-Image Generation Through Paint Medium-like  Interactions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05184  
**Abstract:** While diffusion-based text-to-image (T2I) models provide a simple and powerful way to generate images, guiding this generation remains a challenge. For concepts that are difficult to describe through language, users may struggle to create prompts. Moreover, many of these models are built as end-to-end systems, lacking support for iterative shaping of the image. In response, we introduce PromptPaint, which combines T2I generation with interactions that model how we use colored paints. PromptPaint allows users to go beyond language to mix prompts that express challenging concepts. Just as we iteratively tune colors through layered placements of paint on a physical canvas, PromptPaint similarly allows users to apply different prompts to different canvas areas and times of the generative process. Through a set of studies, we characterize different approaches for mixing prompts, design trade-offs, and socio-technical challenges for generative models. With PromptPaint we provide insight into future steerable generative tools. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** "Generate" the Future of Work through AI: Empirical Evidence from Online  Labor Markets  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05201  
**Abstract:** With the advent of general-purpose Generative AI, the interest in discerning its impact on the labor market escalates. In an attempt to bridge the extant empirical void, we interpret the launch of ChatGPT as an exogenous shock, and implement a Difference-in-Differences (DID) approach to quantify its influence on text-related jobs and freelancers within an online labor marketplace. Our results reveal a significant decrease in transaction volume for gigs and freelancers directly exposed to ChatGPT. Additionally, this decline is particularly marked in units of relatively higher past transaction volume or lower quality standards. Yet, the negative effect is not universally experienced among service providers. Subsequent analyses illustrate that freelancers proficiently adapting to novel advancements and offering services that augment AI technologies can yield substantial benefits amidst this transformative period. Consequently, even though the advent of ChatGPT could conceivably substitute existing occupations, it also unfolds immense opportunities and carries the potential to reconfigure the future of work. This research contributes to the limited empirical repository exploring the profound influence of LLM-based generative AI on the labor market, furnishing invaluable insights for workers, job intermediaries, and regulatory bodies navigating this evolving landscape. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Decoding Layer Saliency in Language Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05219  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we introduce a strategy for identifying textual saliency in large-scale language models applied to classification tasks. In visual networks where saliency is more well-studied, saliency is naturally localized through the convolutional layers of the network; however, the same is not true in modern transformer-stack networks used to process natural language. We adapt gradient-based saliency methods for these networks, propose a method for evaluating the degree of semantic coherence of each layer, and demonstrate consistent improvement over numerous other methods for textual saliency on multiple benchmark classification datasets. Our approach requires no additional training or access to labelled data, and is comparatively very computationally efficient. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Vector quantization loss analysis in VQGANs: a single-GPU ablation study  for image-to-image synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05242  
**Abstract:** This study performs an ablation analysis of Vector Quantized Generative Adversarial Networks (VQGANs), concentrating on image-to-image synthesis utilizing a single NVIDIA A100 GPU. The current work explores the nuanced effects of varying critical parameters including the number of epochs, image count, and attributes of codebook vectors and latent dimensions, specifically within the constraint of limited resources. Notably, our focus is pinpointed on the vector quantization loss, keeping other hyperparameters and loss components (GAN loss) fixed. This was done to delve into a deeper understanding of the discrete latent space, and to explore how varying its size affects the reconstruction. Though, our results do not surpass the existing benchmarks, however, our findings shed significant light on VQGAN's behaviour for a smaller dataset, particularly concerning artifacts, codebook size optimization, and comparative analysis with Principal Component Analysis (PCA). The study also uncovers the promising direction by introducing 2D positional encodings, revealing a marked reduction in artifacts and insights into balancing clarity and overfitting. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Advancing Early Detection of Virus Yellows: Developing a Hybrid  Convolutional Neural Network for Automatic Aphid Counting in Sugar Beet  Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05257  
**Abstract:** Aphids are efficient vectors to transmit virus yellows in sugar beet fields. Timely monitoring and control of their populations are thus critical to prevent the large-scale outbreak of virus yellows. However, the manual counting of aphids, which is the most common practice, is labor-intensive and time-consuming. Additionally, two of the biggest challenges in aphid counting are that aphids are small objects and their density distributions are varied in different areas of the field. To address these challenges, we proposed a hybrid automatic aphid counting network architecture which integrates the detection network and the density map estimation network. When the distribution density of aphids is low, it utilizes an improved Yolov5 to count aphids. Conversely, when the distribution density of aphids is high, its witches to CSRNet to count aphids. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first framework integrating the detection network and the density map estimation network for counting tasks. Through comparison experiments of counting aphids, it verified that our proposed approach outperforms all other methods in counting aphids. It achieved the lowest MAE and RMSE values for both the standard and high-density aphid datasets: 2.93 and 4.01 (standard), and 34.19 and 38.66 (high-density), respectively. Moreover, the AP of the improved Yolov5 is 5% higher than that of the original Yolov5. Especially for extremely small aphids and densely distributed aphids, the detection performance of the improved Yolov5 is significantly better than the original Yolov5. This work provides an effective early warning for the virus yellows risk caused by aphids in sugar beet fields, offering protection for sugar beet growth and ensuring sugar beet yield. The datasets and project code are released at: https://github.com/JunfengGaolab/Counting-Aphids. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** A general fourth-order mesoscopic multiple-relaxation-time lattice  Boltzmann model and equivalent macroscopic finite-difference scheme for  two-dimensional diffusion equations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05280  
**Abstract:** In this work, we first develop a general mesoscopic multiple-relaxation-time lattice Boltzmann (MRT-LB) model for the two-dimensional diffusion equation with the constant diffusion coefficient and source term, where the D2Q5 (five discrete velocities in two-dimensional space) lattice structure is considered. Then we exactly derive the equivalent macroscopic finite-difference scheme of the MRT-LB model. Additionally, we also propose a proper MRT-LB model for the diffusion equation with a linear source term, and obtain an equivalent macroscopic six-level finite-difference scheme. After that, we conduct the accuracy and stability analysis of the finite-difference scheme and the mesoscopic MRT-LB model. It is found that at the diffusive scaling, both of them can achieve a fourth-order accuracy in space based on the Taylor expansion. The stability analysis also shows that they are both unconditionally stable. Finally, some numerical experiments are conducted, and the numerical results are also consistent with our theoretical analysis. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Investigating disaster response through social media data and the  Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) model: A case study of 2020 Western U.S.  wildfire season  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05281  
**Abstract:** Effective disaster response is critical for affected communities. Responders and decision-makers would benefit from reliable, timely measures of the issues impacting their communities during a disaster, and social media offers a potentially rich data source. Social media can reflect public concerns and demands during a disaster, offering valuable insights for decision-makers to understand evolving situations and optimize resource allocation. We used Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) topic modeling to cluster topics from Twitter data. Then, we conducted a temporal-spatial analysis to examine the distribution of these topics across different regions during the 2020 western U.S. wildfire season. Our results show that Twitter users mainly focused on three topics:"health impact," "damage," and "evacuation." We used the Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) theory to explore the magnitude and velocity of topic diffusion on Twitter. The results displayed a clear relationship between topic trends and wildfire propagation patterns. The estimated parameters obtained from the SIR model in selected cities revealed that residents exhibited a high level of several concerns during the wildfire. Our study details how the SIR model and topic modeling using social media data can provide decision-makers with a quantitative approach to measure disaster response and support their decision-making processes. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Informative Scene Graph Generation via Debiasing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05286  
**Abstract:** Scene graph generation aims to detect visual relationship triplets, (subject, predicate, object). Due to biases in data, current models tend to predict common predicates, e.g. "on" and "at", instead of informative ones, e.g. "standing on" and "looking at". This tendency results in the loss of precise information and overall performance. If a model only uses "stone on road" rather than "stone blocking road" to describe an image, it may be a grave misunderstanding. We argue that this phenomenon is caused by two imbalances: semantic space level imbalance and training sample level imbalance. For this problem, we propose DB-SGG, an effective framework based on debiasing but not the conventional distribution fitting. It integrates two components: Semantic Debiasing (SD) and Balanced Predicate Learning (BPL), for these imbalances. SD utilizes a confusion matrix and a bipartite graph to construct predicate relationships. BPL adopts a random undersampling strategy and an ambiguity removing strategy to focus on informative predicates. Benefiting from the model-agnostic process, our method can be easily applied to SGG models and outperforms Transformer by 136.3%, 119.5%, and 122.6% on mR@20 at three SGG sub-tasks on the SGG-VG dataset. Our method is further verified on another complex SGG dataset (SGG-GQA) and two downstream tasks (sentence-to-graph retrieval and image captioning). 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Double-chain Constraints for 3D Human Pose Estimation in Images and  Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05298  
**Abstract:** Reconstructing 3D poses from 2D poses lacking depth information is particularly challenging due to the complexity and diversity of human motion. The key is to effectively model the spatial constraints between joints to leverage their inherent dependencies. Thus, we propose a novel model, called Double-chain Graph Convolutional Transformer (DC-GCT), to constrain the pose through a double-chain design consisting of local-to-global and global-to-local chains to obtain a complex representation more suitable for the current human pose. Specifically, we combine the advantages of GCN and Transformer and design a Local Constraint Module (LCM) based on GCN and a Global Constraint Module (GCM) based on self-attention mechanism as well as a Feature Interaction Module (FIM). The proposed method fully captures the multi-level dependencies between human body joints to optimize the modeling capability of the model. Moreover, we propose a method to use temporal information into the single-frame model by guiding the video sequence embedding through the joint embedding of the target frame, with negligible increase in computational cost. Experimental results demonstrate that DC-GCT achieves state-of-the-art performance on two challenging datasets (Human3.6M and MPI-INF-3DHP). Notably, our model achieves state-of-the-art performance on all action categories in the Human3.6M dataset using detected 2D poses from CPN, and our code is available at: https://github.com/KHB1698/DC-GCT. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Adv-Inpainting: Generating Natural and Transferable Adversarial Patch  via Attention-guided Feature Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05320  
**Abstract:** The rudimentary adversarial attacks utilize additive noise to attack facial recognition (FR) models. However, because manipulating the total face is impractical in the physical setting, most real-world FR attacks are based on adversarial patches, which limit perturbations to a small area. Previous adversarial patch attacks often resulted in unnatural patterns and clear boundaries that were easily noticeable. In this paper, we argue that generating adversarial patches with plausible content can result in stronger transferability than using additive noise or directly sampling from the latent space. To generate natural-looking and highly transferable adversarial patches, we propose an innovative two-stage coarse-to-fine attack framework called Adv-Inpainting. In the first stage, we propose an attention-guided StyleGAN (Att-StyleGAN) that adaptively combines texture and identity features based on the attention map to generate high-transferable and natural adversarial patches. In the second stage, we design a refinement network with a new boundary variance loss to further improve the coherence between the patch and its surrounding area. Experiment results demonstrate that Adv-Inpainting is stealthy and can produce adversarial patches with stronger transferability and improved visual quality than previous adversarial patch attacks. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Classification of Human- and AI-Generated Texts: Investigating Features  for ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05341  
**Abstract:** Recently, generative AIs like ChatGPT have become available to the wide public. These tools can for instance be used by students to generate essays or whole theses. But how does a teacher know whether a text is written by a student or an AI? In our work, we explore traditional and new features to (1) detect text generated by AI from scratch and (2) text rephrased by AI. Since we found that classification is more difficult when the AI has been instructed to create the text in a way that a human would not recognize that it was generated by an AI, we also investigate this more advanced case. For our experiments, we produced a new text corpus covering 10 school topics. Our best systems to classify basic and advanced human-generated/AI-generated texts have F1-scores of over 96%. Our best systems for classifying basic and advanced human-generated/AI-rephrased texts have F1-scores of more than 78%. The systems use a combination of perplexity, semantic, list lookup, error-based, readability, AI feedback, and text vector features. Our results show that the new features substantially help to improve the performance of many classifiers. Our best basic text rephrasing detection system even outperforms GPTZero by 183.8% relative in F1-score. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Metacognitive Prompting Improves Understanding in Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05342  
**Abstract:** In Large Language Models (LLMs), there have been consistent advancements in task-specific performance, largely influenced by effective prompt design. While recent research on prompting has enhanced the reasoning capabilities of LLMs, a gap remains in further improving their understanding abilities. In this study, we introduce metacognitive prompting (MP), a strategy inspired by human introspective reasoning processes. Using MP, LLMs undergo a systematic series of structured, self-aware evaluations, drawing on both their vast inherent knowledge and new insights. Our experiments involve five prevalent LLMs: Llama2, Vicuna, PaLM, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4, all of which span various general natural language understanding (NLU) tasks from the GLUE and SuperGLUE benchmarks. Results indicate that, although GPT-4 consistently excels in most tasks, PaLM, when equipped with MP, approaches its performance level. Furthermore, across models and datasets, MP consistently outperforms existing prompting methods, including standard and chain-of-thought prompting. This study underscores the potential to amplify the understanding abilities of LLMs and highlights the benefits of mirroring human introspective reasoning in NLU tasks. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** RTLLM: An Open-Source Benchmark for Design RTL Generation with Large  Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05345  
**Abstract:** Inspired by the recent success of large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, researchers start to explore the adoption of LLMs for agile hardware design, such as generating design RTL based on natural-language instructions. However, in existing works, their target designs are all relatively simple and in a small scale, and proposed by the authors themselves, making a fair comparison among different LLM solutions challenging. In addition, many prior works only focus on the design correctness, without evaluating the design qualities of generated design RTL. In this work, we propose an open-source benchmark named RTLLM, for generating design RTL with natural language instructions. To systematically evaluate the auto-generated design RTL, we summarized three progressive goals, named syntax goal, functionality goal, and design quality goal. This benchmark can automatically provide a quantitative evaluation of any given LLM-based solution. Furthermore, we propose an easy-to-use yet surprisingly effective prompt engineering technique named self-planning, which proves to significantly boost the performance of GPT-3.5 in our proposed benchmark. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** TCSloT: Text Guided 3D Context and Slope Aware Triple Network for Dental  Implant Position Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05355  
**Abstract:** In implant prosthesis treatment, the surgical guide of implant is used to ensure accurate implantation. However, such design heavily relies on the manual location of the implant position. When deep neural network has been proposed to assist the dentist in locating the implant position, most of them take a single slice as input, which do not fully explore 3D contextual information and ignoring the influence of implant slope. In this paper, we design a Text Guided 3D Context and Slope Aware Triple Network (TCSloT) which enables the perception of contextual information from multiple adjacent slices and awareness of variation of implant slopes. A Texture Variation Perception (TVP) module is correspondingly elaborated to process the multiple slices and capture the texture variation among slices and a Slope-Aware Loss (SAL) is proposed to dynamically assign varying weights for the regression head. Additionally, we design a conditional text guidance (CTG) module to integrate the text condition (i.e., left, middle and right) from the CLIP for assisting the implant position prediction. Extensive experiments on a dental implant dataset through five-fold cross-validation demonstrated that the proposed TCSloT achieves superior performance than existing methods. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** WeaverBird: Empowering Financial Decision-Making with Large Language  Model, Knowledge Base, and Search Engine  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05361  
**Abstract:** We present WeaverBird, an intelligent dialogue system designed specifically for the finance domain. Our system harnesses a large language model of GPT architecture that has been tuned using extensive corpora of finance-related text. As a result, our system possesses the capability to understand complex financial queries, such as "How should I manage my investments during inflation?", and provide informed responses. Furthermore, our system incorporates a local knowledge base and a search engine to retrieve relevant information. The final responses are conditioned on the search results and include proper citations to the sources, thus enjoying an enhanced credibility. Through a range of finance-related questions, we have demonstrated the superior performance of our system compared to other models. To experience our system firsthand, users can interact with our live demo at https://weaverbird.ttic.edu, as well as watch our 2-min video illustration at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yofgeqnlrMc. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Trustworthy LLMs: a Survey and Guideline for Evaluating Large Language  Models' Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05374  
**Abstract:** Ensuring alignment, which refers to making models behave in accordance with human intentions [1,2], has become a critical task before deploying large language models (LLMs) in real-world applications. For instance, OpenAI devoted six months to iteratively aligning GPT-4 before its release [3]. However, a major challenge faced by practitioners is the lack of clear guidance on evaluating whether LLM outputs align with social norms, values, and regulations. This obstacle hinders systematic iteration and deployment of LLMs. To address this issue, this paper presents a comprehensive survey of key dimensions that are crucial to consider when assessing LLM trustworthiness. The survey covers seven major categories of LLM trustworthiness: reliability, safety, fairness, resistance to misuse, explainability and reasoning, adherence to social norms, and robustness. Each major category is further divided into several sub-categories, resulting in a total of 29 sub-categories. Additionally, a subset of 8 sub-categories is selected for further investigation, where corresponding measurement studies are designed and conducted on several widely-used LLMs. The measurement results indicate that, in general, more aligned models tend to perform better in terms of overall trustworthiness. However, the effectiveness of alignment varies across the different trustworthiness categories considered. This highlights the importance of conducting more fine-grained analyses, testing, and making continuous improvements on LLM alignment. By shedding light on these key dimensions of LLM trustworthiness, this paper aims to provide valuable insights and guidance to practitioners in the field. Understanding and addressing these concerns will be crucial in achieving reliable and ethically sound deployment of LLMs in various applications. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Interaction-aware Joint Attention Estimation Using People Attributes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05382  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes joint attention estimation in a single image. Different from related work in which only the gaze-related attributes of people are independently employed, (I) their locations and actions are also employed as contextual cues for weighting their attributes, and (ii) interactions among all of these attributes are explicitly modeled in our method. For the interaction modeling, we propose a novel Transformer-based attention network to encode joint attention as low-dimensional features. We introduce a specialized MLP head with positional embedding to the Transformer so that it predicts pixelwise confidence of joint attention for generating the confidence heatmap. This pixelwise prediction improves the heatmap accuracy by avoiding the ill-posed problem in which the high-dimensional heatmap is predicted from the low-dimensional features. The estimated joint attention is further improved by being integrated with general image-based attention estimation. Our method outperforms SOTA methods quantitatively in comparative experiments. Code: https://anonymous.4open.science/r/anonymized_codes-ECA4. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Beyond Deep Reinforcement Learning: A Tutorial on Generative Diffusion  Models in Network Optimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05384  
**Abstract:** Generative Diffusion Models (GDMs) have emerged as a transformative force in the realm of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI), demonstrating their versatility and efficacy across a variety of applications. The ability to model complex data distributions and generate high-quality samples has made GDMs particularly effective in tasks such as image generation and reinforcement learning. Furthermore, their iterative nature, which involves a series of noise addition and denoising steps, is a powerful and unique approach to learning and generating data. This paper serves as a comprehensive tutorial on applying GDMs in network optimization tasks. We delve into the strengths of GDMs, emphasizing their wide applicability across various domains, such as vision, text, and audio generation.We detail how GDMs can be effectively harnessed to solve complex optimization problems inherent in networks. The paper first provides a basic background of GDMs and their applications in network optimization. This is followed by a series of case studies, showcasing the integration of GDMs with Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL), incentive mechanism design, Semantic Communications (SemCom), Internet of Vehicles (IoV) networks, etc. These case studies underscore the practicality and efficacy of GDMs in real-world scenarios, offering insights into network design. We conclude with a discussion on potential future directions for GDM research and applications, providing major insights into how they can continue to shape the future of network optimization. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Adaptive Low Rank Adaptation of Segment Anything to Salient Object  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05426  
**Abstract:** Foundation models, such as OpenAI's GPT-3 and GPT-4, Meta's LLaMA, and Google's PaLM2, have revolutionized the field of artificial intelligence. A notable paradigm shift has been the advent of the Segment Anything Model (SAM), which has exhibited a remarkable capability to segment real-world objects, trained on 1 billion masks and 11 million images. Although SAM excels in general object segmentation, it lacks the intrinsic ability to detect salient objects, resulting in suboptimal performance in this domain. To address this challenge, we present the Segment Salient Object Model (SSOM), an innovative approach that adaptively fine-tunes SAM for salient object detection by harnessing the low-rank structure inherent in deep learning. Comprehensive qualitative and quantitative evaluations across five challenging RGB benchmark datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our approach, surpassing state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Deep Fusion Transformer Network with Weighted Vector-Wise Keypoints  Voting for Robust 6D Object Pose Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05438  
**Abstract:** One critical challenge in 6D object pose estimation from a single RGBD image is efficient integration of two different modalities, i.e., color and depth. In this work, we tackle this problem by a novel Deep Fusion Transformer~(DFTr) block that can aggregate cross-modality features for improving pose estimation. Unlike existing fusion methods, the proposed DFTr can better model cross-modality semantic correlation by leveraging their semantic similarity, such that globally enhanced features from different modalities can be better integrated for improved information extraction. Moreover, to further improve robustness and efficiency, we introduce a novel weighted vector-wise voting algorithm that employs a non-iterative global optimization strategy for precise 3D keypoint localization while achieving near real-time inference. Extensive experiments show the effectiveness and strong generalization capability of our proposed 3D keypoint voting algorithm. Results on four widely used benchmarks also demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by large margins. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Exploring Machine Learning and Transformer-based Approaches for  Deceptive Text Classification: A Comparative Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05476  
**Abstract:** Deceptive text classification is a critical task in natural language processing that aims to identify deceptive or fraudulent content. This study presents a comparative analysis of machine learning and transformer-based approaches for deceptive text classification. We investigate the effectiveness of traditional machine learning algorithms and state-of-the-art transformer models, such as BERT, XLNET, DistilBERT, and RoBERTa, in detecting deceptive text. A labeled dataset consisting of deceptive and non-deceptive texts is used for training and evaluation purposes. Through extensive experimentation, we compare the performance metrics, including accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score, of the different approaches. The results of this study shed light on the strengths and limitations of machine learning and transformer-based methods for deceptive text classification, enabling researchers and practitioners to make informed decisions when dealing with deceptive content 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** LLM As DBA  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05481  
**Abstract:** Database administrators (DBAs) play a crucial role in managing, maintaining and optimizing a database system to ensure data availability, performance, and reliability. However, it is hard and tedious for DBAs to manage a large number of database instances (e.g., millions of instances on the cloud databases). Recently large language models (LLMs) have shown great potential to understand valuable documents and accordingly generate reasonable answers. Thus, we propose D-Bot, a LLM-based database administrator that can continuously acquire database maintenance experience from textual sources, and provide reasonable, well-founded, in-time diagnosis and optimization advice for target databases. This paper presents a revolutionary LLM-centric framework for database maintenance, including (i) database maintenance knowledge detection from documents and tools, (ii) tree of thought reasoning for root cause analysis, and (iii) collaborative diagnosis among multiple LLMs. Our preliminary experimental results that D-Bot can efficiently and effectively diagnose the root causes and our code is available at github.com/TsinghuaDatabaseGroup/DB-GPT. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** A Preliminary Evaluation of LLM-Based Fault Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05487  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown a surprising level of performance on multiple software engineering problems. However, they have not yet been applied to fault localization (FL), in which one must find the code element responsible for a bug from a potentially vast software repository. Nonetheless, LLM application to FL has the potential to benefit developers both in terms of performance and explainability. In this work, we present AutoFL, an automated fault localization technique that only requires a single failing test, and in its fault localization process generates an explanation about why the given test fails. Using the function call API of the ChatGPT large language model, we provide tools that allow it to explore a large source code repository, which would otherwise pose a significant challenge as it would be impossible to fit all the source code within the limited prompt length. Our results indicate that on the widely used Defects4J benchmark, AutoFL could identify the faulty method on the first try more often than all standalone techniques we compared against from prior work. Nonetheless, there is ample room to improve performance, and we encourage the further experimentation of language model-based fault localization as a promising research area. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** An Adaptive Algorithm Based on Stochastic Discontinuous Galerkin for  Convection Dominated Equations with Random Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05500  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose an adaptive approach, based on mesh refinement or parametric enrichment, for convection diffusion equations containing randomness in their coefficients. A parametric system of convection diffusion equations obtained by an application of stochastic Galerkin approach is discretized by using a symmetric interior penalty Galerkin (SIPG) method with upwinding for the convection term in the spatial domain. We show the reliability of the proposed residual-based error estimator in the energy norm contributed by the error due to the SIPG discretization, the error due to the data oscillations, and the error due to the (generalized) polynomial chaos discretization in the parametric space. To illustrate the performance of the proposed estimator, several benchmark examples including a random diffusivity parameter, a random velocity parameter, random diffusivity/velocity parameters, and a random (jump) discontinuous diffusivity parameter, are tested. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Bringing order into the realm of Transformer-based language models for  artificial intelligence and law  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05502  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based language models (TLMs) have widely been recognized to be a cutting-edge technology for the successful development of deep-learning-based solutions to problems and applications that require natural language processing and understanding. Like for other textual domains, TLMs have indeed pushed the state-of-the-art of AI approaches for many tasks of interest in the legal domain. Despite the first Transformer model being proposed about six years ago, there has been a rapid progress of this technology at an unprecedented rate, whereby BERT and related models represent a major reference, also in the legal domain. This article provides the first systematic overview of TLM-based methods for AI-driven problems and tasks in the legal sphere. A major goal is to highlight research advances in this field so as to understand, on the one hand, how the Transformers have contributed to the success of AI in supporting legal processes, and on the other hand, what are the current limitations and opportunities for further research development. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** C5: Towards Better Conversation Comprehension and Contextual Continuity  for ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05567  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have demonstrated outstanding performance in various fields, particularly in natural language understanding and generation tasks. In complex application scenarios, users tend to engage in multi-turn conversations with ChatGPT to keep contextual information and obtain comprehensive responses. However, human forgetting and model contextual forgetting remain prominent issues in multi-turn conversation scenarios, which challenge the users' conversation comprehension and contextual continuity for ChatGPT. To address these challenges, we propose an interactive conversation visualization system called C5, which includes Global View, Topic View, and Context-associated Q\&A View. The Global View uses the GitLog diagram metaphor to represent the conversation structure, presenting the trend of conversation evolution and supporting the exploration of locally salient features. The Topic View is designed to display all the question and answer nodes and their relationships within a topic using the structure of a knowledge graph, thereby display the relevance and evolution of conversations. The Context-associated Q\&A View consists of three linked views, which allow users to explore individual conversations deeply while providing specific contextual information when posing questions. The usefulness and effectiveness of C5 were evaluated through a case study and a user study. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Bijective Density-Equalizing Quasiconformal Map for Multiply-Connected  Open Surfaces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05579  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a novel method for computing bijective density-equalizing quasiconformal (DEQ) flattening maps for multiply-connected open surfaces. In conventional density-equalizing maps, shape deformations are solely driven by prescribed constraints on the density distribution, defined as the population per unit area, while the bijectivity and local geometric distortions of the mappings are uncontrolled. Also, prior methods have primarily focused on simply-connected open surfaces but not surfaces with more complicated topologies. Our proposed method overcomes these issues by formulating the density diffusion process as a quasiconformal flow, which allows us to effectively control the local geometric distortion and guarantee the bijectivity of the mapping by solving an energy minimization problem involving the Beltrami coefficient of the mapping. To achieve an optimal parameterization of multiply-connected surfaces, we develop an iterative scheme that optimizes both the shape of the target planar circular domain and the density-equalizing quasiconformal map onto it. In addition, landmark constraints can be incorporated into our proposed method for consistent feature alignment. The method can also be naturally applied to simply-connected open surfaces. By changing the prescribed population, a large variety of surface flattening maps with different desired properties can be achieved. The method is tested on both synthetic and real examples, demonstrating its efficacy in various applications in computer graphics and medical imaging. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Category Feature Transformer for Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05581  
**Abstract:** Aggregation of multi-stage features has been revealed to play a significant role in semantic segmentation. Unlike previous methods employing point-wise summation or concatenation for feature aggregation, this study proposes the Category Feature Transformer (CFT) that explores the flow of category embedding and transformation among multi-stage features through the prevalent multi-head attention mechanism. CFT learns unified feature embeddings for individual semantic categories from high-level features during each aggregation process and dynamically broadcasts them to high-resolution features. Integrating the proposed CFT into a typical feature pyramid structure exhibits superior performance over a broad range of backbone networks. We conduct extensive experiments on popular semantic segmentation benchmarks. Specifically, the proposed CFT obtains a compelling 55.1% mIoU with greatly reduced model parameters and computations on the challenging ADE20K dataset. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Generative Diffusion Models for Radio Wireless Channel Modelling and  Sampling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05583  
**Abstract:** Channel modelling is essential to designing modern wireless communication systems. The increasing complexity of channel modelling and the cost of collecting high-quality wireless channel data have become major challenges. In this paper, we propose a diffusion model based channel sampling approach for rapidly synthesizing channel realizations from limited data. We use a diffusion model with a U Net based architecture operating in the frequency space domain. To evaluate how well the proposed model reproduces the true distribution of channels in the training dataset, two evaluation metrics are used: $i)$ the approximate $2$-Wasserstein distance between real and generated distributions of the normalized power spectrum in the antenna and frequency domains and $ii)$ precision and recall metric for distributions. We show that, compared to existing GAN based approaches which suffer from mode collapse and unstable training, our diffusion based approach trains stably and generates diverse and high-fidelity samples from the true channel distribution. We also show that we can pretrain the model on a simulated urban macro-cellular channel dataset and fine-tune it on a smaller, out-of-distribution urban micro-cellular dataset, therefore showing that it is feasible to model real world channels using limited data with this approach. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** You Only Prompt Once: On the Capabilities of Prompt Learning on Large  Language Models to Tackle Toxic Content  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05596  
**Abstract:** The spread of toxic content online is an important problem that has adverse effects on user experience online and in our society at large. Motivated by the importance and impact of the problem, research focuses on developing solutions to detect toxic content, usually leveraging machine learning (ML) models trained on human-annotated datasets. While these efforts are important, these models usually do not generalize well and they can not cope with new trends (e.g., the emergence of new toxic terms). Currently, we are witnessing a shift in the approach to tackling societal issues online, particularly leveraging large language models (LLMs) like GPT-3 or T5 that are trained on vast corpora and have strong generalizability. In this work, we investigate how we can use LLMs and prompt learning to tackle the problem of toxic content, particularly focusing on three tasks; 1) Toxicity Classification, 2) Toxic Span Detection, and 3) Detoxification. We perform an extensive evaluation over five model architectures and eight datasets demonstrating that LLMs with prompt learning can achieve similar or even better performance compared to models trained on these specific tasks. We find that prompt learning achieves around 10\% improvement in the toxicity classification task compared to the baselines, while for the toxic span detection task we find better performance to the best baseline (0.643 vs. 0.640 in terms of $F_1$-score). Finally, for the detoxification task, we find that prompt learning can successfully reduce the average toxicity score (from 0.775 to 0.213) while preserving semantic meaning. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Object Goal Navigation with Recursive Implicit Maps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05602  
**Abstract:** Object goal navigation aims to navigate an agent to locations of a given object category in unseen environments. Classical methods explicitly build maps of environments and require extensive engineering while lacking semantic information for object-oriented exploration. On the other hand, end-to-end learning methods alleviate manual map design and predict actions using implicit representations. Such methods, however, lack an explicit notion of geometry and may have limited ability to encode navigation history. In this work, we propose an implicit spatial map for object goal navigation. Our implicit map is recursively updated with new observations at each step using a transformer. To encourage spatial reasoning, we introduce auxiliary tasks and train our model to reconstruct explicit maps as well as to predict visual features, semantic labels and actions. Our method significantly outperforms the state of the art on the challenging MP3D dataset and generalizes well to the HM3D dataset. We successfully deploy our model on a real robot and achieve encouraging object goal navigation results in real scenes using only a few real-world demonstrations. Code, trained models and videos are available at \url{https://www.di.ens.fr/willow/research/onav_rim/}. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** IIHT: Medical Report Generation with Image-to-Indicator Hierarchical  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05633  
**Abstract:** Automated medical report generation has become increasingly important in medical analysis. It can produce computer-aided diagnosis descriptions and thus significantly alleviate the doctors' work. Inspired by the huge success of neural machine translation and image captioning, various deep learning methods have been proposed for medical report generation. However, due to the inherent properties of medical data, including data imbalance and the length and correlation between report sequences, the generated reports by existing methods may exhibit linguistic fluency but lack adequate clinical accuracy. In this work, we propose an image-to-indicator hierarchical transformer (IIHT) framework for medical report generation. It consists of three modules, i.e., a classifier module, an indicator expansion module and a generator module. The classifier module first extracts image features from the input medical images and produces disease-related indicators with their corresponding states. The disease-related indicators are subsequently utilised as input for the indicator expansion module, incorporating the "data-text-data" strategy. The transformer-based generator then leverages these extracted features along with image features as auxiliary information to generate final reports. Furthermore, the proposed IIHT method is feasible for radiologists to modify disease indicators in real-world scenarios and integrate the operations into the indicator expansion module for fluent and accurate medical report generation. Extensive experiments and comparisons with state-of-the-art methods under various evaluation metrics demonstrate the great performance of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Tracing the Influence of Predecessors on Trajectory Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05634  
**Abstract:** In real-world traffic scenarios, agents such as pedestrians and car drivers often observe neighboring agents who exhibit similar behavior as examples and then mimic their actions to some extent in their own behavior. This information can serve as prior knowledge for trajectory prediction, which is unfortunately largely overlooked in current trajectory prediction models. This paper introduces a novel Predecessor-and-Successor (PnS) method that incorporates a predecessor tracing module to model the influence of predecessors (identified from concurrent neighboring agents) on the successor (target agent) within the same scene. The method utilizes the moving patterns of these predecessors to guide the predictor in trajectory prediction. PnS effectively aligns the motion encodings of the successor with multiple potential predecessors in a probabilistic manner, facilitating the decoding process. We demonstrate the effectiveness of PnS by integrating it into a graph-based predictor for pedestrian trajectory prediction on the ETH/UCY datasets, resulting in a new state-of-the-art performance. Furthermore, we replace the HD map-based scene-context module with our PnS method in a transformer-based predictor for vehicle trajectory prediction on the nuScenes dataset, showing that the predictor maintains good prediction performance even without relying on any map information. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** AST-MHSA : Code Summarization using Multi-Head Self-Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05646  
**Abstract:** Code summarization aims to generate concise natural language descriptions for source code. The prevailing approaches adopt transformer-based encoder-decoder architectures, where the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) of the source code is utilized for encoding structural information. However, ASTs are much longer than the corresponding source code, and existing methods ignore this size constraint by directly feeding the entire linearized AST into the encoders. This simplistic approach makes it challenging to extract truly valuable dependency relations from the overlong input sequence and leads to significant computational overhead due to self-attention applied to all nodes in the AST. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** AD-CLIP: Adapting Domains in Prompt Space Using CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05659  
**Abstract:** Although deep learning models have shown impressive performance on supervised learning tasks, they often struggle to generalize well when the training (source) and test (target) domains differ. Unsupervised domain adaptation (DA) has emerged as a popular solution to this problem. However, current DA techniques rely on visual backbones, which may lack semantic richness. Despite the potential of large-scale vision-language foundation models like CLIP, their effectiveness for DA has yet to be fully explored. To address this gap, we introduce AD-CLIP, a domain-agnostic prompt learning strategy for CLIP that aims to solve the DA problem in the prompt space. We leverage the frozen vision backbone of CLIP to extract both image style (domain) and content information, which we apply to learn prompt tokens. Our prompts are designed to be domain-invariant and class-generalizable, by conditioning prompt learning on image style and content features simultaneously. We use standard supervised contrastive learning in the source domain, while proposing an entropy minimization strategy to align domains in the embedding space given the target domain data. We also consider a scenario where only target domain samples are available during testing, without any source domain data, and propose a cross-domain style mapping network to hallucinate domain-agnostic tokens. Our extensive experiments on three benchmark DA datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of AD-CLIP compared to existing literature. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** 2D3D-MATR: 2D-3D Matching Transformer for Detection-free Registration  between Images and Point Clouds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05667  
**Abstract:** The commonly adopted detect-then-match approach to registration finds difficulties in the cross-modality cases due to the incompatible keypoint detection and inconsistent feature description. We propose, 2D3D-MATR, a detection-free method for accurate and robust registration between images and point clouds. Our method adopts a coarse-to-fine pipeline where it first computes coarse correspondences between downsampled patches of the input image and the point cloud and then extends them to form dense correspondences between pixels and points within the patch region. The coarse-level patch matching is based on transformer which jointly learns global contextual constraints with self-attention and cross-modality correlations with cross-attention. To resolve the scale ambiguity in patch matching, we construct a multi-scale pyramid for each image patch and learn to find for each point patch the best matching image patch at a proper resolution level. Extensive experiments on two public benchmarks demonstrate that 2D3D-MATR outperforms the previous state-of-the-art P2-Net by around $20$ percentage points on inlier ratio and over $10$ points on registration recall. Our code and models are available at \url{https://github.com/minhaolee/2D3DMATR}. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Finding Already Debunked Narratives via Multistage Retrieval: Enabling  Cross-Lingual, Cross-Dataset and Zero-Shot Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05680  
**Abstract:** The task of retrieving already debunked narratives aims to detect stories that have already been fact-checked. The successful detection of claims that have already been debunked not only reduces the manual efforts of professional fact-checkers but can also contribute to slowing the spread of misinformation. Mainly due to the lack of readily available data, this is an understudied problem, particularly when considering the cross-lingual task, i.e. the retrieval of fact-checking articles in a language different from the language of the online post being checked. This paper fills this gap by (i) creating a novel dataset to enable research on cross-lingual retrieval of already debunked narratives, using tweets as queries to a database of fact-checking articles; (ii) presenting an extensive experiment to benchmark fine-tuned and off-the-shelf multilingual pre-trained Transformer models for this task; and (iii) proposing a novel multistage framework that divides this cross-lingual debunk retrieval task into refinement and re-ranking stages. Results show that the task of cross-lingual retrieval of already debunked narratives is challenging and off-the-shelf Transformer models fail to outperform a strong lexical-based baseline (BM25). Nevertheless, our multistage retrieval framework is robust, outperforming BM25 in most scenarios and enabling cross-domain and zero-shot learning, without significantly harming the model's performance. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Masked Diffusion as Self-supervised Representation Learner  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05695  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion probabilistic models have recently demonstrated state-of-the-art generative performance and been used as strong pixel-level representation learners. This paper decomposes the interrelation between the generative capability and representation learning ability inherent in diffusion models. We present masked diffusion model (MDM), a scalable self-supervised representation learner that substitutes the conventional additive Gaussian noise of traditional diffusion with a masking mechanism. Our proposed approach convincingly surpasses prior benchmarks, demonstrating remarkable advancements in both medical and natural image semantic segmentation tasks, particularly within the context of few-shot scenario. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Testing GPT-4 with Wolfram Alpha and Code Interpreter plug-ins on math  and science problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05713  
**Abstract:** This report describes a test of the large language model GPT-4 with the Wolfram Alpha and the Code Interpreter plug-ins on 105 original problems in science and math, at the high school and college levels, carried out in June-August 2023. Our tests suggest that the plug-ins significantly enhance GPT's ability to solve these problems. Having said that, there are still often "interface" failures; that is, GPT often has trouble formulating problems in a way that elicits useful answers from the plug-ins. Fixing these interface failures seems like a central challenge in making GPT a reliable tool for college-level calculation problems. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Deformable Mixer Transformer with Gating for Multi-Task Learning of  Dense Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05721  
**Abstract:** CNNs and Transformers have their own advantages and both have been widely used for dense prediction in multi-task learning (MTL). Most of the current studies on MTL solely rely on CNN or Transformer. In this work, we present a novel MTL model by combining both merits of deformable CNN and query-based Transformer with shared gating for multi-task learning of dense prediction. This combination may offer a simple and efficient solution owing to its powerful and flexible task-specific learning and advantages of lower cost, less complexity and smaller parameters than the traditional MTL methods. We introduce deformable mixer Transformer with gating (DeMTG), a simple and effective encoder-decoder architecture up-to-date that incorporates the convolution and attention mechanism in a unified network for MTL. It is exquisitely designed to use advantages of each block, and provide deformable and comprehensive features for all tasks from local and global perspective. First, the deformable mixer encoder contains two types of operators: the channel-aware mixing operator leveraged to allow communication among different channels, and the spatial-aware deformable operator with deformable convolution applied to efficiently sample more informative spatial locations. Second, the task-aware gating transformer decoder is used to perform the task-specific predictions, in which task interaction block integrated with self-attention is applied to capture task interaction features, and the task query block integrated with gating attention is leveraged to select corresponding task-specific features. Further, the experiment results demonstrate that the proposed DeMTG uses fewer GFLOPs and significantly outperforms current Transformer-based and CNN-based competitive models on a variety of metrics on three dense prediction datasets. Our code and models are available at https://github.com/yangyangxu0/DeMTG. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** PDE-Refiner: Achieving Accurate Long Rollouts with Neural PDE Solvers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05732  
**Abstract:** Time-dependent partial differential equations (PDEs) are ubiquitous in science and engineering. Recently, mostly due to the high computational cost of traditional solution techniques, deep neural network based surrogates have gained increased interest. The practical utility of such neural PDE solvers relies on their ability to provide accurate, stable predictions over long time horizons, which is a notoriously hard problem. In this work, we present a large-scale analysis of common temporal rollout strategies, identifying the neglect of non-dominant spatial frequency information, often associated with high frequencies in PDE solutions, as the primary pitfall limiting stable, accurate rollout performance. Based on these insights, we draw inspiration from recent advances in diffusion models to introduce PDE-Refiner; a novel model class that enables more accurate modeling of all frequency components via a multistep refinement process. We validate PDE-Refiner on challenging benchmarks of complex fluid dynamics, demonstrating stable and accurate rollouts that consistently outperform state-of-the-art models, including neural, numerical, and hybrid neural-numerical architectures. We further demonstrate that PDE-Refiner greatly enhances data efficiency, since the denoising objective implicitly induces a novel form of spectral data augmentation. Finally, PDE-Refiner's connection to diffusion models enables an accurate and efficient assessment of the model's predictive uncertainty, allowing us to estimate when the surrogate becomes inaccurate. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** AudioLDM 2: Learning Holistic Audio Generation with Self-supervised  Pretraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05734  
**Abstract:** Although audio generation shares commonalities across different types of audio, such as speech, music, and sound effects, designing models for each type requires careful consideration of specific objectives and biases that can significantly differ from those of other types. To bring us closer to a unified perspective of audio generation, this paper proposes a framework that utilizes the same learning method for speech, music, and sound effect generation. Our framework introduces a general representation of audio, called language of audio (LOA). Any audio can be translated into LOA based on AudioMAE, a self-supervised pre-trained representation learning model. In the generation process, we translate any modalities into LOA by using a GPT-2 model, and we perform self-supervised audio generation learning with a latent diffusion model conditioned on LOA. The proposed framework naturally brings advantages such as in-context learning abilities and reusable self-supervised pretrained AudioMAE and latent diffusion models. Experiments on the major benchmarks of text-to-audio, text-to-music, and text-to-speech demonstrate new state-of-the-art or competitive performance to previous approaches. Our demo and code are available at https://audioldm.github.io/audioldm2. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** PlankAssembly: Robust 3D Reconstruction from Three Orthographic Views  with Learnt Shape Programs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05744  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we develop a new method to automatically convert 2D line drawings from three orthographic views into 3D CAD models. Existing methods for this problem reconstruct 3D models by back-projecting the 2D observations into 3D space while maintaining explicit correspondence between the input and output. Such methods are sensitive to errors and noises in the input, thus often fail in practice where the input drawings created by human designers are imperfect. To overcome this difficulty, we leverage the attention mechanism in a Transformer-based sequence generation model to learn flexible mappings between the input and output. Further, we design shape programs which are suitable for generating the objects of interest to boost the reconstruction accuracy and facilitate CAD modeling applications. Experiments on a new benchmark dataset show that our method significantly outperforms existing ones when the inputs are noisy or incomplete. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** PTransIPs: Identification of phosphorylation sites based on protein  pretrained language model and Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05115  
**Abstract:** Phosphorylation is central to numerous fundamental cellular processes, influencing the onset and progression of a variety of diseases. Identification of phosphorylation sites is thus an important step for understanding the molecular mechanisms of cells and virus infection, which potentially leads to new therapeutic targets. In this study, we present PTransIPs, a novel deep learning model for the identification of phosphorylation sites. PTransIPs treats amino acids in protein sequences as words in natural language, extracting unique encodings based on the types along with position of amino acids in the sequence. It also incorporates embeddings from large pre-trained protein models as additional data inputs. PTransIPS is further trained on a combination model of convolutional neural network with residual connections and Transformer model equipped with multi-head attention mechanisms. At last, the model outputs classification results through a fully connected layer. The results of independent testing reveal that PTransIPs outperforms existing state-of-the-art methodologies, achieving AUROCs of 0.9232 and 0.9660 for identifying phosphorylated S/T and Y sites respectively. In addition, ablation studies prove that pretrained model embeddings contribute to the performance of PTransIPs. Furthermore, PTransIPs has interpretable amino acid preference, visible training process and shows generalizability on other bioactivity classification tasks. To facilitate usage, our code and data are publicly accessible at \url{https://github.com/StatXzy7/PTransIPs}. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** From CNN to Transformer: A Review of Medical Image Segmentation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05305  
**Abstract:** Medical image segmentation is an important step in medical image analysis, especially as a crucial prerequisite for efficient disease diagnosis and treatment. The use of deep learning for image segmentation has become a prevalent trend. The widely adopted approach currently is U-Net and its variants. Additionally, with the remarkable success of pre-trained models in natural language processing tasks, transformer-based models like TransUNet have achieved desirable performance on multiple medical image segmentation datasets. In this paper, we conduct a survey of the most representative four medical image segmentation models in recent years. We theoretically analyze the characteristics of these models and quantitatively evaluate their performance on two benchmark datasets (i.e., Tuberculosis Chest X-rays and ovarian tumors). Finally, we discuss the main challenges and future trends in medical image segmentation. Our work can assist researchers in the related field to quickly establish medical segmentation models tailored to specific regions. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Quantum-inspired Hash Function Based on Parity-dependent Quantum Walks  with Memory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05357  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we develop a generic controlled alternate quantum walk model (called CQWM-P) by combining parity-dependent quantum walks with distinct arbitrary memory lengths and then construct a quantum-inspired hash function (called QHFM-P) based on this model. Numerical simulation shows that QHFM-P has near-ideal statistical performance and is on a par with the state-of-the-art hash functions based on discrete quantum walks in terms of sensitivity of hash value to message, diffusion and confusion properties, uniform distribution property, and collision resistance property. Stability test illustrates that the statistical properties of the proposed hash function are robust with respect to the coin parameters, and theoretical analysis indicates that QHFM-P has the same computational complexity as that of its peers. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** TriDo-Former: A Triple-Domain Transformer for Direct PET Reconstruction  from Low-Dose Sinograms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05365  
**Abstract:** To obtain high-quality positron emission tomography (PET) images while minimizing radiation exposure, various methods have been proposed for reconstructing standard-dose PET (SPET) images from low-dose PET (LPET) sinograms directly. However, current methods often neglect boundaries during sinogram-to-image reconstruction, resulting in high-frequency distortion in the frequency domain and diminished or fuzzy edges in the reconstructed images. Furthermore, the convolutional architectures, which are commonly used, lack the ability to model long-range non-local interactions, potentially leading to inaccurate representations of global structures. To alleviate these problems, we propose a transformer-based model that unites triple domains of sinogram, image, and frequency for direct PET reconstruction, namely TriDo-Former. Specifically, the TriDo-Former consists of two cascaded networks, i.e., a sinogram enhancement transformer (SE-Former) for denoising the input LPET sinograms and a spatial-spectral reconstruction transformer (SSR-Former) for reconstructing SPET images from the denoised sinograms. Different from the vanilla transformer that splits an image into 2D patches, based specifically on the PET imaging mechanism, our SE-Former divides the sinogram into 1D projection view angles to maintain its inner-structure while denoising, preventing the noise in the sinogram from prorogating into the image domain. Moreover, to mitigate high-frequency distortion and improve reconstruction details, we integrate global frequency parsers (GFPs) into SSR-Former. The GFP serves as a learnable frequency filter that globally adjusts the frequency components in the frequency domain, enforcing the network to restore high-frequency details resembling real SPET images. Validations on a clinical dataset demonstrate that our TriDo-Former outperforms the state-of-the-art methods qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Surface Masked AutoEncoder: Self-Supervision for Cortical Imaging Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05474  
**Abstract:** Self-supervision has been widely explored as a means of addressing the lack of inductive biases in vision transformer architectures, which limits generalisation when networks are trained on small datasets. This is crucial in the context of cortical imaging, where phenotypes are complex and heterogeneous, but the available datasets are limited in size. This paper builds upon recent advancements in translating vision transformers to surface meshes and investigates the potential of Masked AutoEncoder (MAE) self-supervision for cortical surface learning. By reconstructing surface data from a masked version of the input, the proposed method effectively models cortical structure to learn strong representations that translate to improved performance in downstream tasks. We evaluate our approach on cortical phenotype regression using the developing Human Connectome Project (dHCP) and demonstrate that pre-training leads to a 26\% improvement in performance, with an 80\% faster convergence, compared to models trained from scratch. Furthermore, we establish that pre-training vision transformer models on large datasets, such as the UK Biobank (UKB), enables the acquisition of robust representations for finetuning in low-data scenarios. Our code and pre-trained models are publicly available at \url{https://github.com/metrics-lab/surface-vision-transformers}. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** A coupled-mechanisms modelling framework for neurodegeneration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.05536  
**Abstract:** Computational models of neurodegeneration aim to emulate the evolving pattern of pathology in the brain during neurodegenerative disease, such as Alzheimer's disease. Previous studies have made specific choices on the mechanisms of pathology production and diffusion, or assume that all the subjects lie on the same disease progression trajectory. However, the complexity and heterogeneity of neurodegenerative pathology suggests that multiple mechanisms may contribute synergistically with complex interactions, meanwhile the degree of contribution of each mechanism may vary among individuals. We thus put forward a coupled-mechanisms modelling framework which non-linearly combines the network-topology-informed pathology appearance with the process of pathology spreading within a dynamic modelling system. We account for the heterogeneity of disease by fitting the model at the individual level, allowing the epicenters and rate of progression to vary among subjects. We construct a Bayesian model selection framework to account for feature importance and parameter uncertainty. This provides a combination of mechanisms that best explains the observations for each individual from the ADNI dataset. With the obtained distribution of mechanism importance for each subject, we are able to identify subgroups of patients sharing similar combinations of apparent mechanisms. 

