**ID:** 1  
**Title:** $n$ Walks in the Fictional Woods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06266  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel exploration of the interaction between generative AI models, visualization, and narrative generation processes, using OpenAI's GPT as a case study. Drawing on Umberto Eco's ``Six Walks in the Fictional Woods'', we engender a speculative, transdisciplinary scientific narrative plentiful with references and links to relevant talks. To enrich our exposition, we present a visualization prototype to analyze storyboarded narratives, and extensive conversations with ChatGPT. Our paper is thoroughly decorated with thoughtful decorations that try to encode meaning and complement the narrative. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Beyond Reality: The Pivotal Role of Generative AI in the Metaverse  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06272  
**Abstract:** Imagine stepping into a virtual world that's as rich, dynamic, and interactive as our physical one. This is the promise of the Metaverse, and it's being brought to life by the transformative power of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI). This paper offers a comprehensive exploration of how generative AI technologies are shaping the Metaverse, transforming it into a dynamic, immersive, and interactive virtual world. We delve into the applications of text generation models like ChatGPT and GPT-3, which are enhancing conversational interfaces with AI-generated characters. We explore the role of image generation models such as DALL-E and MidJourney in creating visually stunning and diverse content. We also examine the potential of 3D model generation technologies like Point-E and Lumirithmic in creating realistic virtual objects that enrich the Metaverse experience. But the journey doesn't stop there. We also address the challenges and ethical considerations of implementing these technologies in the Metaverse, offering insights into the balance between user control and AI automation. This paper is not just a study, but a guide to the future of the Metaverse, offering readers a roadmap to harnessing the power of generative AI in creating immersive virtual worlds. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Size Lowerbounds for Deep Operator Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06338  
**Abstract:** Deep Operator Networks are an increasingly popular paradigm for solving regression in infinite dimensions and hence solve families of PDEs in one shot. In this work, we aim to establish a first-of-its-kind data-dependent lowerbound on the size of DeepONets required for them to be able to reduce empirical error on noisy data. In particular, we show that for low training errors to be obtained on $n$ data points it is necessary that the common output dimension of the branch and the trunk net be scaling as $\Omega \left ( {\sqrt{n}} \right )$. This inspires our experiments with DeepONets solving the advection-diffusion-reaction PDE, where we demonstrate the possibility that at a fixed model size, to leverage increase in this common output dimension and get monotonic lowering of training error, the size of the training data might necessarily need to scale quadratically with it. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Mirror Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06342  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have successfully been applied to generative tasks in various continuous domains. However, applying diffusion to discrete categorical data remains a non-trivial task. Moreover, generation in continuous domains often requires clipping in practice, which motivates the need for a theoretical framework for adapting diffusion to constrained domains. Inspired by the mirror Langevin algorithm for the constrained sampling problem, in this theoretical report we propose Mirror Diffusion Models (MDMs). We demonstrate MDMs in the context of simplex diffusion and propose natural extensions to popular domains such as image and text generation. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Learning Distributions via Monte-Carlo Marginalization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06352  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel method to learn intractable distributions from their samples. The main idea is to use a parametric distribution model, such as a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM), to approximate intractable distributions by minimizing the KL-divergence. Based on this idea, there are two challenges that need to be addressed. First, the computational complexity of KL-divergence is unacceptable when the dimensions of distributions increases. The Monte-Carlo Marginalization (MCMarg) is proposed to address this issue. The second challenge is the differentiability of the optimization process, since the target distribution is intractable. We handle this problem by using Kernel Density Estimation (KDE). The proposed approach is a powerful tool to learn complex distributions and the entire process is differentiable. Thus, it can be a better substitute of the variational inference in variational auto-encoders (VAE). One strong evidence of the benefit of our method is that the distributions learned by the proposed approach can generate better images even based on a pre-trained VAE's decoder. Based on this point, we devise a distribution learning auto-encoder which is better than VAE under the same network architecture. Experiments on standard dataset and synthetic data demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed approach. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Large Language Models to Identify Social Determinants of Health in  Electronic Health Records  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06354  
**Abstract:** Social determinants of health (SDoH) have an important impact on patient outcomes but are incompletely collected from the electronic health records (EHR). This study researched the ability of large language models to extract SDoH from free text in EHRs, where they are most commonly documented, and explored the role of synthetic clinical text for improving the extraction of these scarcely documented, yet extremely valuable, clinical data. 800 patient notes were annotated for SDoH categories, and several transformer-based models were evaluated. The study also experimented with synthetic data generation and assessed for algorithmic bias. Our best-performing models were fine-tuned Flan-T5 XL (macro-F1 0.71) for any SDoH, and Flan-T5 XXL (macro-F1 0.70). The benefit of augmenting fine-tuning with synthetic data varied across model architecture and size, with smaller Flan-T5 models (base and large) showing the greatest improvements in performance (delta F1 +0.12 to +0.23). Model performance was similar on the in-hospital system dataset but worse on the MIMIC-III dataset. Our best-performing fine-tuned models outperformed zero- and few-shot performance of ChatGPT-family models for both tasks. These fine-tuned models were less likely than ChatGPT to change their prediction when race/ethnicity and gender descriptors were added to the text, suggesting less algorithmic bias (p<0.05). At the patient-level, our models identified 93.8% of patients with adverse SDoH, while ICD-10 codes captured 2.0%. Our method can effectively extracted SDoH information from clinic notes, performing better compare to GPT zero- and few-shot settings. These models could enhance real-world evidence on SDoH and aid in identifying patients needing social support. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** ChatGPT: ascertaining the self-evident. The use of AI in generating  human knowledge  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06373  
**Abstract:** The fundamental principles, potential applications, and ethical concerns of ChatGPT are analyzed and discussed in this study. Since ChatGPT emerged, it has gained a rapidly growing popularity, with more than 600 million users today. The development of ChatGPT was a significant mile-stone, as it demonstrated the potential of large-scale language models to generate natural language responses that are almost indistinguishable from those of a human. ChatGPT's operational principles, prospective applications, and ability to advance a range of human endeavours are discussed in the paper. However, much of the work discusses and poses moral and other problems that rely on the subject. To document the latter, we submitted 14 queries and captured the ChatGPT responses. ChatGPT appeared to be honest, self-knowledgeable, and careful with its answers. The authors come to the realization that since AI is already a part of society, the pervasiveness of the ChatGPT tool to the general public has once again brought to light concerns regarding AI in general. Still, they have moved from the domain of scientific community collective reflection at a conceptual level to everyday practice this time. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** White-box Membership Inference Attacks against Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06405  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have begun to overshadow GANs and other generative models in industrial applications due to their superior image generation performance. The complex architecture of these models furnishes an extensive array of attack features. In light of this, we aim to design membership inference attacks (MIAs) catered to diffusion models. We first conduct an exhaustive analysis of existing MIAs on diffusion models, taking into account factors such as black-box/white-box models and the selection of attack features. We found that white-box attacks are highly applicable in real-world scenarios, and the most effective attacks presently are white-box. Departing from earlier research, which employs model loss as the attack feature for white-box MIAs, we employ model gradients in our attack, leveraging the fact that these gradients provide a more profound understanding of model responses to various samples. We subject these models to rigorous testing across a range of parameters, including training steps, sampling frequency, diffusion steps, and data variance. Across all experimental settings, our method consistently demonstrated near-flawless attack performance, with attack success rate approaching $100\%$ and attack AUCROC near $1.0$. We also evaluate our attack against common defense mechanisms, and observe our attacks continue to exhibit commendable performance. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Text-to-Video: a Two-stage Framework for Zero-shot Identity-agnostic  Talking-head Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06457  
**Abstract:** The advent of ChatGPT has introduced innovative methods for information gathering and analysis. However, the information provided by ChatGPT is limited to text, and the visualization of this information remains constrained. Previous research has explored zero-shot text-to-video (TTV) approaches to transform text into videos. However, these methods lacked control over the identity of the generated audio, i.e., not identity-agnostic, hindering their effectiveness. To address this limitation, we propose a novel two-stage framework for person-agnostic video cloning, specifically focusing on TTV generation. In the first stage, we leverage pretrained zero-shot models to achieve text-to-speech (TTS) conversion. In the second stage, an audio-driven talking head generation method is employed to produce compelling videos privided the audio generated in the first stage. This paper presents a comparative analysis of different TTS and audio-driven talking head generation methods, identifying the most promising approach for future research and development. Some audio and videos samples can be found in the following link: https://github.com/ZhichaoWang970201/Text-to-Video/tree/main. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** GPT-4 Is Too Smart To Be Safe: Stealthy Chat with LLMs via Cipher  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06463  
**Abstract:** Safety lies at the core of the development of Large Language Models (LLMs). There is ample work on aligning LLMs with human ethics and preferences, including data filtering in pretraining, supervised fine-tuning, reinforcement learning from human feedback, and red teaming, etc. In this study, we discover that chat in cipher can bypass the safety alignment techniques of LLMs, which are mainly conducted in natural languages. We propose a novel framework CipherChat to systematically examine the generalizability of safety alignment to non-natural languages -- ciphers. CipherChat enables humans to chat with LLMs through cipher prompts topped with system role descriptions and few-shot enciphered demonstrations. We use CipherChat to assess state-of-the-art LLMs, including ChatGPT and GPT-4 for different representative human ciphers across 11 safety domains in both English and Chinese. Experimental results show that certain ciphers succeed almost 100% of the time to bypass the safety alignment of GPT-4 in several safety domains, demonstrating the necessity of developing safety alignment for non-natural languages. Notably, we identify that LLMs seem to have a ''secret cipher'', and propose a novel SelfCipher that uses only role play and several demonstrations in natural language to evoke this capability. SelfCipher surprisingly outperforms existing human ciphers in almost all cases. Our code and data will be released at https://github.com/RobustNLP/CipherChat. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Generating Faithful Text From a Knowledge Graph with Noisy Reference  Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06488  
**Abstract:** Knowledge Graph (KG)-to-Text generation aims at generating fluent natural-language text that accurately represents the information of a given knowledge graph. While significant progress has been made in this task by exploiting the power of pre-trained language models (PLMs) with appropriate graph structure-aware modules, existing models still fall short of generating faithful text, especially when the ground-truth natural-language text contains additional information that is not present in the graph. In this paper, we develop a KG-to-text generation model that can generate faithful natural-language text from a given graph, in the presence of noisy reference text. Our framework incorporates two core ideas: Firstly, we utilize contrastive learning to enhance the model's ability to differentiate between faithful and hallucinated information in the text, thereby encouraging the decoder to generate text that aligns with the input graph. Secondly, we empower the decoder to control the level of hallucination in the generated text by employing a controllable text generation technique. We evaluate our model's performance through the standard quantitative metrics as well as a ChatGPT-based quantitative and qualitative analysis. Our evaluation demonstrates the superior performance of our model over state-of-the-art KG-to-text models on faithfulness. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Performance Analysis for Resource Constrained Decentralized Federated  Learning Over Wireless Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06496  
**Abstract:** Federated learning (FL) can lead to significant communication overhead and reliance on a central server. To address these challenges, decentralized federated learning (DFL) has been proposed as a more resilient framework. DFL involves parameter exchange between devices through a wireless network. This study analyzes the performance of resource-constrained DFL using different communication schemes (digital and analog) over wireless networks to optimize communication efficiency. Specifically, we provide convergence bounds for both digital and analog transmission approaches, enabling analysis of the model performance trained on DFL. Furthermore, for digital transmission, we investigate and analyze resource allocation between computation and communication and convergence rates, obtaining its communication complexity and the minimum probability of correction communication required for convergence guarantee. For analog transmission, we discuss the impact of channel fading and noise on the model performance and the maximum errors accumulation with convergence guarantee over fading channels. Finally, we conduct numerical simulations to evaluate the performance and convergence rate of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and Vision Transformer (ViT) trained in the DFL framework on fashion-MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets. Our simulation results validate our analysis and discussion, revealing how to improve performance by optimizing system parameters under different communication conditions. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Three Ways of Using Large Language Models to Evaluate Chat  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06502  
**Abstract:** This paper describes the systems submitted by team6 for ChatEval, the DSTC 11 Track 4 competition. We present three different approaches to predicting turn-level qualities of chatbot responses based on large language models (LLMs). We report improvement over the baseline using dynamic few-shot examples from a vector store for the prompts for ChatGPT. We also analyze the performance of the other two approaches and report needed improvements for future work. We developed the three systems over just two weeks, showing the potential of LLMs for this task. An ablation study conducted after the challenge deadline shows that the new Llama 2 models are closing the performance gap between ChatGPT and open-source LLMs. However, we find that the Llama 2 models do not benefit from few-shot examples in the same way as ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** SLoRA: Federated Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning of Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06522  
**Abstract:** Transfer learning via fine-tuning pre-trained transformer models has gained significant success in delivering state-of-the-art results across various NLP tasks. In the absence of centralized data, Federated Learning (FL) can benefit from distributed and private data of the FL edge clients for fine-tuning. However, due to the limited communication, computation, and storage capabilities of edge devices and the huge sizes of popular transformer models, efficient fine-tuning is crucial to make federated training feasible. This work explores the opportunities and challenges associated with applying parameter efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods in different FL settings for language tasks. Specifically, our investigation reveals that as the data across users becomes more diverse, the gap between fully fine-tuning the model and employing PEFT methods widens. To bridge this performance gap, we propose a method called SLoRA, which overcomes the key limitations of LoRA in high heterogeneous data scenarios through a novel data-driven initialization technique. Our experimental results demonstrate that SLoRA achieves performance comparable to full fine-tuning, with significant sparse updates with approximately $\sim 1\%$ density while reducing training time by up to $90\%$. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Learning Abstract Visual Reasoning via Task Decomposition: A Case Study  in Raven Progressive Matrices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06528  
**Abstract:** One of the challenges in learning to perform abstract reasoning is that problems are often posed as monolithic tasks, with no intermediate subgoals. In Raven Progressive Matrices (RPM), the task is to choose one of the available answers given a context, where both contexts and answers are composite images featuring multiple objects in various spatial arrangements. As this high-level goal is the only guidance available, learning is challenging and most contemporary solvers tend to be opaque. In this study, we propose a deep learning architecture based on the transformer blueprint which, rather than directly making the above choice, predicts the visual properties of individual objects and their arrangements. The multidimensional predictions obtained in this way are then directly juxtaposed to choose the answer. We consider a few ways in which the model parses the visual input into tokens and several regimes of masking parts of the input in self-supervised training. In experimental assessment, the models not only outperform state-of-the-art methods but also provide interesting insights and partial explanations about the inference. The design of the method also makes it immune to biases that are known to exist in some RPM benchmarks. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Revisiting Vision Transformer from the View of Path Ensemble  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06548  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformers (ViTs) are normally regarded as a stack of transformer layers. In this work, we propose a novel view of ViTs showing that they can be seen as ensemble networks containing multiple parallel paths with different lengths. Specifically, we equivalently transform the traditional cascade of multi-head self-attention (MSA) and feed-forward network (FFN) into three parallel paths in each transformer layer. Then, we utilize the identity connection in our new transformer form and further transform the ViT into an explicit multi-path ensemble network. From the new perspective, these paths perform two functions: the first is to provide the feature for the classifier directly, and the second is to provide the lower-level feature representation for subsequent longer paths. We investigate the influence of each path for the final prediction and discover that some paths even pull down the performance. Therefore, we propose the path pruning and EnsembleScale skills for improvement, which cut out the underperforming paths and re-weight the ensemble components, respectively, to optimize the path combination and make the short paths focus on providing high-quality representation for subsequent paths. We also demonstrate that our path combination strategies can help ViTs go deeper and act as high-pass filters to filter out partial low-frequency signals. To further enhance the representation of paths served for subsequent paths, self-distillation is applied to transfer knowledge from the long paths to the short paths. This work calls for more future research to explain and design ViTs from new perspectives. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** EquiDiff: A Conditional Equivariant Diffusion Model For Trajectory  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06564  
**Abstract:** Accurate trajectory prediction is crucial for the safe and efficient operation of autonomous vehicles. The growing popularity of deep learning has led to the development of numerous methods for trajectory prediction. While deterministic deep learning models have been widely used, deep generative models have gained popularity as they learn data distributions from training data and account for trajectory uncertainties. In this study, we propose EquiDiff, a deep generative model for predicting future vehicle trajectories. EquiDiff is based on the conditional diffusion model, which generates future trajectories by incorporating historical information and random Gaussian noise. The backbone model of EquiDiff is an SO(2)-equivariant transformer that fully utilizes the geometric properties of location coordinates. In addition, we employ Recurrent Neural Networks and Graph Attention Networks to extract social interactions from historical trajectories. To evaluate the performance of EquiDiff, we conduct extensive experiments on the NGSIM dataset. Our results demonstrate that EquiDiff outperforms other baseline models in short-term prediction, but has slightly higher errors for long-term prediction. Furthermore, we conduct an ablation study to investigate the contribution of each component of EquiDiff to the prediction accuracy. Additionally, we present a visualization of the generation process of our diffusion model, providing insights into the uncertainty of the prediction. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** ModelScope Text-to-Video Technical Report  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06571  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces ModelScopeT2V, a text-to-video synthesis model that evolves from a text-to-image synthesis model (i.e., Stable Diffusion). ModelScopeT2V incorporates spatio-temporal blocks to ensure consistent frame generation and smooth movement transitions. The model could adapt to varying frame numbers during training and inference, rendering it suitable for both image-text and video-text datasets. ModelScopeT2V brings together three components (i.e., VQGAN, a text encoder, and a denoising UNet), totally comprising 1.7 billion parameters, in which 0.5 billion parameters are dedicated to temporal capabilities. The model demonstrates superior performance over state-of-the-art methods across three evaluation metrics. The code and an online demo are available at \url{https://modelscope.cn/models/damo/text-to-video-synthesis/summary}. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** VisIT-Bench: A Benchmark for Vision-Language Instruction Following  Inspired by Real-World Use  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06595  
**Abstract:** We introduce VisIT-Bench (Visual InsTruction Benchmark), a benchmark for evaluation of instruction-following vision-language models for real-world use. Our starting point is curating 70 'instruction families' that we envision instruction tuned vision-language models should be able to address. Extending beyond evaluations like VQAv2 and COCO, tasks range from basic recognition to game playing and creative generation. Following curation, our dataset comprises 592 test queries, each with a human-authored instruction-conditioned caption. These descriptions surface instruction-specific factors, e.g., for an instruction asking about the accessibility of a storefront for wheelchair users, the instruction-conditioned caption describes ramps/potential obstacles. These descriptions enable 1) collecting human-verified reference outputs for each instance; and 2) automatic evaluation of candidate multimodal generations using a text-only LLM, aligning with human judgment. We quantify quality gaps between models and references using both human and automatic evaluations; e.g., the top-performing instruction-following model wins against the GPT-4 reference in just 27% of the comparison. VisIT-Bench is dynamic to participate, practitioners simply submit their model's response on the project website; Data, code and leaderboard is available at visit-bench.github.io. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Bio-SIEVE: Exploring Instruction Tuning Large Language Models for  Systematic Review Automation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06610  
**Abstract:** Medical systematic reviews can be very costly and resource intensive. We explore how Large Language Models (LLMs) can support and be trained to perform literature screening when provided with a detailed set of selection criteria. Specifically, we instruction tune LLaMA and Guanaco models to perform abstract screening for medical systematic reviews. Our best model, Bio-SIEVE, outperforms both ChatGPT and trained traditional approaches, and generalises better across medical domains. However, there remains the challenge of adapting the model to safety-first scenarios. We also explore the impact of multi-task training with Bio-SIEVE-Multi, including tasks such as PICO extraction and exclusion reasoning, but find that it is unable to match single-task Bio-SIEVE's performance. We see Bio-SIEVE as an important step towards specialising LLMs for the biomedical systematic review process and explore its future developmental opportunities. We release our models, code and a list of DOIs to reconstruct our dataset for reproducibility. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** 3DMOTFormer: Graph Transformer for Online 3D Multi-Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06635  
**Abstract:** Tracking 3D objects accurately and consistently is crucial for autonomous vehicles, enabling more reliable downstream tasks such as trajectory prediction and motion planning. Based on the substantial progress in object detection in recent years, the tracking-by-detection paradigm has become a popular choice due to its simplicity and efficiency. State-of-the-art 3D multi-object tracking (MOT) approaches typically rely on non-learned model-based algorithms such as Kalman Filter but require many manually tuned parameters. On the other hand, learning-based approaches face the problem of adapting the training to the online setting, leading to inevitable distribution mismatch between training and inference as well as suboptimal performance. In this work, we propose 3DMOTFormer, a learned geometry-based 3D MOT framework building upon the transformer architecture. We use an Edge-Augmented Graph Transformer to reason on the track-detection bipartite graph frame-by-frame and conduct data association via edge classification. To reduce the distribution mismatch between training and inference, we propose a novel online training strategy with an autoregressive and recurrent forward pass as well as sequential batch optimization. Using CenterPoint detections, our approach achieves 71.2% and 68.2% AMOTA on the nuScenes validation and test split, respectively. In addition, a trained 3DMOTFormer model generalizes well across different object detectors. Code is available at: https://github.com/dsx0511/3DMOTFormer. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Accelerating Diffusion-based Combinatorial Optimization Solvers by  Progressive Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06644  
**Abstract:** Graph-based diffusion models have shown promising results in terms of generating high-quality solutions to NP-complete (NPC) combinatorial optimization (CO) problems. However, those models are often inefficient in inference, due to the iterative evaluation nature of the denoising diffusion process. This paper proposes to use progressive distillation to speed up the inference by taking fewer steps (e.g., forecasting two steps ahead within a single step) during the denoising process. Our experimental results show that the progressively distilled model can perform inference 16 times faster with only 0.019% degradation in performance on the TSP-50 dataset. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** ALGAN: Time Series Anomaly Detection with Adjusted-LSTM GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06663  
**Abstract:** Anomaly detection in time series data, to identify points that deviate from normal behaviour, is a common problem in various domains such as manufacturing, medical imaging, and cybersecurity. Recently, Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are shown to be effective in detecting anomalies in time series data. The neural network architecture of GANs (i.e. Generator and Discriminator) can significantly improve anomaly detection accuracy. In this paper, we propose a new GAN model, named Adjusted-LSTM GAN (ALGAN), which adjusts the output of an LSTM network for improved anomaly detection in both univariate and multivariate time series data in an unsupervised setting. We evaluate the performance of ALGAN on 46 real-world univariate time series datasets and a large multivariate dataset that spans multiple domains. Our experiments demonstrate that ALGAN outperforms traditional, neural network-based, and other GAN-based methods for anomaly detection in time series data. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Law of Balance and Stationary Distribution of Stochastic Gradient  Descent  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06671  
**Abstract:** The stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithm is the algorithm we use to train neural networks. However, it remains poorly understood how the SGD navigates the highly nonlinear and degenerate loss landscape of a neural network. In this work, we prove that the minibatch noise of SGD regularizes the solution towards a balanced solution whenever the loss function contains a rescaling symmetry. Because the difference between a simple diffusion process and SGD dynamics is the most significant when symmetries are present, our theory implies that the loss function symmetries constitute an essential probe of how SGD works. We then apply this result to derive the stationary distribution of stochastic gradient flow for a diagonal linear network with arbitrary depth and width. The stationary distribution exhibits complicated nonlinear phenomena such as phase transitions, broken ergodicity, and fluctuation inversion. These phenomena are shown to exist uniquely in deep networks, implying a fundamental difference between deep and shallow models. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Isomer: Isomerous Transformer for Zero-shot Video Object Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06693  
**Abstract:** Recent leading zero-shot video object segmentation (ZVOS) works devote to integrating appearance and motion information by elaborately designing feature fusion modules and identically applying them in multiple feature stages. Our preliminary experiments show that with the strong long-range dependency modeling capacity of Transformer, simply concatenating the two modality features and feeding them to vanilla Transformers for feature fusion can distinctly benefit the performance but at a cost of heavy computation. Through further empirical analysis, we find that attention dependencies learned in Transformer in different stages exhibit completely different properties: global query-independent dependency in the low-level stages and semantic-specific dependency in the high-level stages. Motivated by the observations, we propose two Transformer variants: i) Context-Sharing Transformer (CST) that learns the global-shared contextual information within image frames with a lightweight computation. ii) Semantic Gathering-Scattering Transformer (SGST) that models the semantic correlation separately for the foreground and background and reduces the computation cost with a soft token merging mechanism. We apply CST and SGST for low-level and high-level feature fusions, respectively, formulating a level-isomerous Transformer framework for ZVOS task. Compared with the baseline that uses vanilla Transformers for multi-stage fusion, ours significantly increase the speed by 13 times and achieves new state-of-the-art ZVOS performance. Code is available at https://github.com/DLUT-yyc/Isomer. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Generating observation guided ensembles for data assimilation with  denoising diffusion probabilistic model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06708  
**Abstract:** This paper presents an ensemble data assimilation method using the pseudo ensembles generated by denoising diffusion probabilistic model. Since the model is trained against noisy and sparse observation data, this model can produce divergent ensembles close to observations. Thanks to the variance in generated ensembles, our proposed method displays better performance than the well-established ensemble data assimilation method when the simulation model is imperfect. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** LAW-Diffusion: Complex Scene Generation by Diffusion with Layouts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06713  
**Abstract:** Thanks to the rapid development of diffusion models, unprecedented progress has been witnessed in image synthesis. Prior works mostly rely on pre-trained linguistic models, but a text is often too abstract to properly specify all the spatial properties of an image, e.g., the layout configuration of a scene, leading to the sub-optimal results of complex scene generation. In this paper, we achieve accurate complex scene generation by proposing a semantically controllable Layout-AWare diffusion model, termed LAW-Diffusion. Distinct from the previous Layout-to-Image generation (L2I) methods that only explore category-aware relationships, LAW-Diffusion introduces a spatial dependency parser to encode the location-aware semantic coherence across objects as a layout embedding and produces a scene with perceptually harmonious object styles and contextual relations. To be specific, we delicately instantiate each object's regional semantics as an object region map and leverage a location-aware cross-object attention module to capture the spatial dependencies among those disentangled representations. We further propose an adaptive guidance schedule for our layout guidance to mitigate the trade-off between the regional semantic alignment and the texture fidelity of generated objects. Moreover, LAW-Diffusion allows for instance reconfiguration while maintaining the other regions in a synthesized image by introducing a layout-aware latent grafting mechanism to recompose its local regional semantics. To better verify the plausibility of generated scenes, we propose a new evaluation metric for the L2I task, dubbed Scene Relation Score (SRS) to measure how the images preserve the rational and harmonious relations among contextual objects. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that our LAW-Diffusion yields the state-of-the-art generative performance, especially with coherent object relations. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** IP-Adapter: Text Compatible Image Prompt Adapter for Text-to-Image  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06721  
**Abstract:** Recent years have witnessed the strong power of large text-to-image diffusion models for the impressive generative capability to create high-fidelity images. However, it is very tricky to generate desired images using only text prompt as it often involves complex prompt engineering. An alternative to text prompt is image prompt, as the saying goes: "an image is worth a thousand words". Although existing methods of direct fine-tuning from pretrained models are effective, they require large computing resources and are not compatible with other base models, text prompt, and structural controls. In this paper, we present IP-Adapter, an effective and lightweight adapter to achieve image prompt capability for the pretrained text-to-image diffusion models. The key design of our IP-Adapter is decoupled cross-attention mechanism that separates cross-attention layers for text features and image features. Despite the simplicity of our method, an IP-Adapter with only 22M parameters can achieve comparable or even better performance to a fully fine-tuned image prompt model. As we freeze the pretrained diffusion model, the proposed IP-Adapter can be generalized not only to other custom models fine-tuned from the same base model, but also to controllable generation using existing controllable tools. With the benefit of the decoupled cross-attention strategy, the image prompt can also work well with the text prompt to achieve multimodal image generation. The project page is available at \url{https://ip-adapter.github.io}. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** CLE Diffusion: Controllable Light Enhancement Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06725  
**Abstract:** Low light enhancement has gained increasing importance with the rapid development of visual creation and editing. However, most existing enhancement algorithms are designed to homogeneously increase the brightness of images to a pre-defined extent, limiting the user experience. To address this issue, we propose Controllable Light Enhancement Diffusion Model, dubbed CLE Diffusion, a novel diffusion framework to provide users with rich controllability. Built with a conditional diffusion model, we introduce an illumination embedding to let users control their desired brightness level. Additionally, we incorporate the Segment-Anything Model (SAM) to enable user-friendly region controllability, where users can click on objects to specify the regions they wish to enhance. Extensive experiments demonstrate that CLE Diffusion achieves competitive performance regarding quantitative metrics, qualitative results, and versatile controllability. Project page: \url{https://yuyangyin.github.io/CLEDiffusion/} 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Precipitation nowcasting with generative diffusion models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06733  
**Abstract:** In recent years traditional numerical methods for accurate weather prediction have been increasingly challenged by deep learning methods. Numerous historical datasets used for short and medium-range weather forecasts are typically organized into a regular spatial grid structure. This arrangement closely resembles images: each weather variable can be visualized as a map or, when considering the temporal axis, as a video. Several classes of generative models, comprising Generative Adversarial Networks, Variational Autoencoders, or the recent Denoising Diffusion Models have largely proved their applicability to the next-frame prediction problem, and is thus natural to test their performance on the weather prediction benchmarks. Diffusion models are particularly appealing in this context, due to the intrinsically probabilistic nature of weather forecasting: what we are really interested to model is the probability distribution of weather indicators, whose expected value is the most likely prediction. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Free-ATM: Exploring Unsupervised Learning on Diffusion-Generated Images  with Free Attention Masks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06739  
**Abstract:** Despite the rapid advancement of unsupervised learning in visual representation, it requires training on large-scale datasets that demand costly data collection, and pose additional challenges due to concerns regarding data privacy. Recently, synthetic images generated by text-to-image diffusion models, have shown great potential for benefiting image recognition. Although promising, there has been inadequate exploration dedicated to unsupervised learning on diffusion-generated images. To address this, we start by uncovering that diffusion models' cross-attention layers inherently provide annotation-free attention masks aligned with corresponding text inputs on generated images. We then investigate the problems of three prevalent unsupervised learning techniques ( i.e., contrastive learning, masked modeling, and vision-language pretraining) and introduce customized solutions by fully exploiting the aforementioned free attention masks. Our approach is validated through extensive experiments that show consistent improvements in baseline models across various downstream tasks, including image classification, detection, segmentation, and image-text retrieval. By utilizing our method, it is possible to close the performance gap between unsupervised pretraining on synthetic data and real-world scenarios. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** TextDiff: Mask-Guided Residual Diffusion Models for Scene Text Image  Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06743  
**Abstract:** The goal of scene text image super-resolution is to reconstruct high-resolution text-line images from unrecognizable low-resolution inputs. The existing methods relying on the optimization of pixel-level loss tend to yield text edges that exhibit a notable degree of blurring, thereby exerting a substantial impact on both the readability and recognizability of the text. To address these issues, we propose TextDiff, the first diffusion-based framework tailored for scene text image super-resolution. It contains two modules: the Text Enhancement Module (TEM) and the Mask-Guided Residual Diffusion Module (MRD). The TEM generates an initial deblurred text image and a mask that encodes the spatial location of the text. The MRD is responsible for effectively sharpening the text edge by modeling the residuals between the ground-truth images and the initial deblurred images. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our TextDiff achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on public benchmark datasets and can improve the readability of scene text images. Moreover, our proposed MRD module is plug-and-play that effectively sharpens the text edges produced by SOTA methods. This enhancement not only improves the readability and recognizability of the results generated by SOTA methods but also does not require any additional joint training. Available Codes:https://github.com/Lenubolim/TextDiff. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Modified Topological Image Preprocessing for Skin Lesion Classifications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06796  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a modified Topological Data Analysis model for skin images preprocessing and enhancements. The skin lesion dataset HAM10000 used with the intention of identifying the important objects in relevant regions of the images. In order to evaluate both the original dataset and the preprocessed dataset, Deep Convolutional Neural Network and Vision Transformer models were utilized to train both models. After training, the experimental results demonstrate that the images preprocessed using the Modified Topological Data Analysis consistently perform better. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** A Mean Convection Finite Difference Method for Solving Black Scholes  Model for Option Pricing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06808  
**Abstract:** In this research, we proposed a Mean Convection Finite Difference Method (MCFDM) for European options pricing. The Black-Scholes model, which describes the dynamics of a financial asset, was first transformed into a convection-diffusion equation. We then used the finite difference method to discretize time and price, and introduced a tuning parameter to enhance the convection term. Specified the boundary and initial conditions for call and put options of European options, and performed numerical calculations to obtain a numerical solution and error estimation. By varying the strength of the strike price and risk-free interest rate, we explored the accuracy and stability of our predicted prices. Finally, we compared our proposed method with those obtained using the Crank-Nicolson Finite Difference Method (CFDM) and Monte Carlo method. Our numerical results demonstrate the efficiency and accuracy of our proposed method, which outperformed the CFDM and Monte Carlo methods in terms of accuracy and speed. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** An Ensemble Approach to Question Classification: Integrating Electra  Transformer, GloVe, and LSTM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06828  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a novel ensemble approach for question classification using state-of-the-art models -- Electra, GloVe, and LSTM. The proposed model is trained and evaluated on the TREC dataset, a well-established benchmark for question classification tasks. The ensemble model combines the strengths of Electra, a transformer-based model for language understanding, GloVe, a global vectors for word representation, and LSTM, a recurrent neural network variant, providing a robust and efficient solution for question classification. Extensive experiments were carried out to compare the performance of the proposed ensemble approach with other cutting-edge models, such as BERT, RoBERTa, and DistilBERT. Our results demonstrate that the ensemble model outperforms these models across all evaluation metrics, achieving an accuracy of 0.8 on the test set. These findings underscore the effectiveness of the ensemble approach in enhancing the performance of question classification tasks, and invite further exploration of ensemble methods in natural language processing. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Diagnostic Reasoning Prompts Reveal the Potential for Large Language  Model Interpretability in Medicine  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06834  
**Abstract:** One of the major barriers to using large language models (LLMs) in medicine is the perception they use uninterpretable methods to make clinical decisions that are inherently different from the cognitive processes of clinicians. In this manuscript we develop novel diagnostic reasoning prompts to study whether LLMs can perform clinical reasoning to accurately form a diagnosis. We find that GPT4 can be prompted to mimic the common clinical reasoning processes of clinicians without sacrificing diagnostic accuracy. This is significant because an LLM that can use clinical reasoning to provide an interpretable rationale offers physicians a means to evaluate whether LLMs can be trusted for patient care. Novel prompting methods have the potential to expose the black box of LLMs, bringing them one step closer to safe and effective use in medicine. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Improving Face Recognition from Caption Supervision with Multi-Granular  Contextual Feature Aggregation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06866  
**Abstract:** We introduce caption-guided face recognition (CGFR) as a new framework to improve the performance of commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) face recognition (FR) systems. In contrast to combining soft biometrics (eg., facial marks, gender, and age) with face images, in this work, we use facial descriptions provided by face examiners as a piece of auxiliary information. However, due to the heterogeneity of the modalities, improving the performance by directly fusing the textual and facial features is very challenging, as both lie in different embedding spaces. In this paper, we propose a contextual feature aggregation module (CFAM) that addresses this issue by effectively exploiting the fine-grained word-region interaction and global image-caption association. Specifically, CFAM adopts a self-attention and a cross-attention scheme for improving the intra-modality and inter-modality relationship between the image and textual features, respectively. Additionally, we design a textual feature refinement module (TFRM) that refines the textual features of the pre-trained BERT encoder by updating the contextual embeddings. This module enhances the discriminative power of textual features with a cross-modal projection loss and realigns the word and caption embeddings with visual features by incorporating a visual-semantic alignment loss. We implemented the proposed CGFR framework on two face recognition models (ArcFace and AdaFace) and evaluated its performance on the Multi-Modal CelebA-HQ dataset. Our framework significantly improves the performance of ArcFace in both 1:1 verification and 1:N identification protocol. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Exploring Lightweight Hierarchical Vision Transformers for Efficient  Visual Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06904  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based visual trackers have demonstrated significant progress owing to their superior modeling capabilities. However, existing trackers are hampered by low speed, limiting their applicability on devices with limited computational power. To alleviate this problem, we propose HiT, a new family of efficient tracking models that can run at high speed on different devices while retaining high performance. The central idea of HiT is the Bridge Module, which bridges the gap between modern lightweight transformers and the tracking framework. The Bridge Module incorporates the high-level information of deep features into the shallow large-resolution features. In this way, it produces better features for the tracking head. We also propose a novel dual-image position encoding technique that simultaneously encodes the position information of both the search region and template images. The HiT model achieves promising speed with competitive performance. For instance, it runs at 61 frames per second (fps) on the Nvidia Jetson AGX edge device. Furthermore, HiT attains 64.6% AUC on the LaSOT benchmark, surpassing all previous efficient trackers. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** CausalLM is not optimal for in-context learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06912  
**Abstract:** Recent empirical evidence indicates that transformer based in-context learning performs better when using a prefix language model (prefixLM), in which in-context samples can all attend to each other, compared to causal language models (causalLM), which use auto-regressive attention that prohibits in-context samples to attend to future samples. While this result is intuitive, it is not understood from a theoretical perspective. In this paper we take a theoretical approach and analyze the convergence behavior of prefixLM and causalLM under a certain parameter construction. Our analysis shows that both LM types converge to their stationary points at a linear rate, but that while prefixLM converges to the optimal solution of linear regression, causalLM convergence dynamics follows that of an online gradient descent algorithm, which is not guaranteed to be optimal even as the number of samples grows infinitely. We supplement our theoretical claims with empirical experiments over synthetic and real tasks and using various types of transformers. Our experiments verify that causalLM consistently underperforms prefixLM in all settings. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Chatbots in Drug Discovery: A Case Study on Anti-Cocaine Addiction Drug  Development with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06920  
**Abstract:** The birth of ChatGPT, a cutting-edge language model chatbot developed by OpenAI, ushered in a new era in AI, and this paper vividly showcases its innovative application within the field of drug discovery. Focused specifically on developing anti-cocaine addiction drugs, the study employs GPT-4 as a virtual guide, offering strategic and methodological insights to researchers working on generative models for drug candidates. The primary objective is to generate optimal drug-like molecules with desired properties. By leveraging the capabilities of ChatGPT, the study introduces a novel approach to the drug discovery process. This symbiotic partnership between AI and researchers transforms how drug development is approached. Chatbots become facilitators, steering researchers towards innovative methodologies and productive paths for creating effective drug candidates. This research sheds light on the collaborative synergy between human expertise and AI assistance, wherein ChatGPT's cognitive abilities enhance the design and development of potential pharmaceutical solutions. This paper not only explores the integration of advanced AI in drug discovery but also reimagines the landscape by advocating for AI-powered chatbots as trailblazers in revolutionizing therapeutic innovation. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** FedEdge AI-TC: A Semi-supervised Traffic Classification Method based on  Trusted Federated Deep Learning for Mobile Edge Computing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06924  
**Abstract:** As a typical entity of MEC (Mobile Edge Computing), 5G CPE (Customer Premise Equipment)/HGU (Home Gateway Unit) has proven to be a promising alternative to traditional Smart Home Gateway. Network TC (Traffic Classification) is a vital service quality assurance and security management method for communication networks, which has become a crucial functional entity in 5G CPE/HGU. In recent years, many researchers have applied Machine Learning or Deep Learning (DL) to TC, namely AI-TC, to improve its performance. However, AI-TC faces challenges, including data dependency, resource-intensive traffic labeling, and user privacy concerns. The limited computing resources of 5G CPE further complicate efficient classification. Moreover, the "black box" nature of AI-TC models raises transparency and credibility issues. The paper proposes the FedEdge AI-TC framework, leveraging Federated Learning (FL) for reliable Network TC in 5G CPE. FL ensures privacy by employing local training, model parameter iteration, and centralized training. A semi-supervised TC algorithm based on Variational Auto-Encoder (VAE) and convolutional neural network (CNN) reduces data dependency while maintaining accuracy. To optimize model light-weight deployment, the paper introduces XAI-Pruning, an AI model compression method combined with DL model interpretability. Experimental evaluation demonstrates FedEdge AI-TC's superiority over benchmarks in terms of accuracy and efficient TC performance. The framework enhances user privacy and model credibility, offering a comprehensive solution for dependable and transparent Network TC in 5G CPE, thus enhancing service quality and security. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** DIVAS: An LLM-based End-to-End Framework for SoC Security Analysis and  Policy-based Protection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06932  
**Abstract:** Securing critical assets in a bus-based System-On-Chip (SoC) is imperative to mitigate potential vulnerabilities and prevent unauthorized access, ensuring the integrity, availability, and confidentiality of the system. Ensuring security throughout the SoC design process is a formidable task owing to the inherent intricacies in SoC designs and the dispersion of assets across diverse IPs. Large Language Models (LLMs), exemplified by ChatGPT (OpenAI) and BARD (Google), have showcased remarkable proficiency across various domains, including security vulnerability detection and prevention in SoC designs. In this work, we propose DIVAS, a novel framework that leverages the knowledge base of LLMs to identify security vulnerabilities from user-defined SoC specifications, map them to the relevant Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs), followed by the generation of equivalent assertions, and employ security measures through enforcement of security policies. The proposed framework is implemented using multiple ChatGPT and BARD models, and their performance was analyzed while generating relevant CWEs from the SoC specifications provided. The experimental results obtained from open-source SoC benchmarks demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed framework. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Moment Methods for Advection on Networks and an Application to Forest  Pest Life Cycle Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06940  
**Abstract:** This paper develops low-dimensional moment methods for advective problems on networks of domains. The evolution of a density function is described by a linear advection-diffusion-reaction equation on each domain, combined via advective flux coupling across domains in the network graph. The PDEs' coefficients vary in time and across domains but they are fixed along each domain. As a result, the solution on each domain is frequently close to a Gaussian that moves, decays, and widens. For that reason, this work studies moment methods that track only three degrees of freedom per domain -- in contrast to traditional PDE discretization methods that tend to require many more variables per domain. A simple ODE-based moment method is developed, as well as an asymptotic-preserving scheme. We apply the methodology to an application that models the life cycle of forest pests that undergo different life stages and developmental pathways. The model is calibrated for the spotted lanternfly, an invasive species present in the Eastern USA. We showcase that the moment method, despite its significant low-dimensionality, can successfully reproduce the prediction of the pest's establishment potential, compared to much higher-dimensional computational approaches. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Approximating Human-Like Few-shot Learning with GPT-based Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06942  
**Abstract:** In this work, we conceptualize the learning process as information compression. We seek to equip generative pre-trained models with human-like learning capabilities that enable data compression during inference. We present a novel approach that utilizes the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) to approximate Kolmogorov complexity, with the aim of estimating the optimal Information Distance for few-shot learning. We first propose using GPT as a prior for lossless text compression, achieving a noteworthy compression ratio. Experiment with LLAMA2-7B backbone achieves a compression ratio of 15.5 on enwik9. We justify the pre-training objective of GPT models by demonstrating its equivalence to the compression length, and, consequently, its ability to approximate the information distance for texts. Leveraging the approximated information distance, our method allows the direct application of GPT models in quantitative text similarity measurements. Experiment results show that our method overall achieves superior performance compared to embedding and prompt baselines on challenging NLP tasks, including semantic similarity, zero and one-shot text classification, and zero-shot text ranking. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Knowing Where to Focus: Event-aware Transformer for Video Grounding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06947  
**Abstract:** Recent DETR-based video grounding models have made the model directly predict moment timestamps without any hand-crafted components, such as a pre-defined proposal or non-maximum suppression, by learning moment queries. However, their input-agnostic moment queries inevitably overlook an intrinsic temporal structure of a video, providing limited positional information. In this paper, we formulate an event-aware dynamic moment query to enable the model to take the input-specific content and positional information of the video into account. To this end, we present two levels of reasoning: 1) Event reasoning that captures distinctive event units constituting a given video using a slot attention mechanism; and 2) moment reasoning that fuses the moment queries with a given sentence through a gated fusion transformer layer and learns interactions between the moment queries and video-sentence representations to predict moment timestamps. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the event-aware dynamic moment queries, outperforming state-of-the-art approaches on several video grounding benchmarks. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** EcomGPT: Instruction-tuning Large Language Model with Chain-of-Task  Tasks for E-commerce  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06966  
**Abstract:** Recently, instruction-following Large Language Models (LLMs) , represented by ChatGPT, have exhibited exceptional performance in general Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. However, the unique characteristics of E-commerce data pose significant challenges to general LLMs. An LLM tailored specifically for E-commerce scenarios, possessing robust cross-dataset/task generalization capabilities, is a pressing necessity. To solve this issue, in this work, we proposed the first e-commerce instruction dataset EcomInstruct, with a total of 2.5 million instruction data. EcomInstruct scales up the data size and task diversity by constructing atomic tasks with E-commerce basic data types, such as product information, user reviews. Atomic tasks are defined as intermediate tasks implicitly involved in solving a final task, which we also call Chain-of-Task tasks. We developed EcomGPT with different parameter scales by training the backbone model BLOOMZ with the EcomInstruct. Benefiting from the fundamental semantic understanding capabilities acquired from the Chain-of-Task tasks, EcomGPT exhibits excellent zero-shot generalization capabilities. Extensive experiments and human evaluations demonstrate that EcomGPT outperforms ChatGPT in term of cross-dataset/task generalization on E-commerce tasks. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Discrete Conditional Diffusion for Reranking in Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06982  
**Abstract:** Reranking plays a crucial role in modern multi-stage recommender systems by rearranging the initial ranking list to model interplay between items. Considering the inherent challenges of reranking such as combinatorial searching space, some previous studies have adopted the evaluator-generator paradigm, with a generator producing feasible sequences and a evaluator selecting the best one based on estimated listwise utility. Inspired by the remarkable success of diffusion generative models, this paper explores the potential of diffusion models for generating high-quality sequences in reranking. However, we argue that it is nontrivial to take diffusion models as the generator in the context of recommendation. Firstly, diffusion models primarily operate in continuous data space, differing from the discrete data space of item permutations. Secondly, the recommendation task is different from conventional generation tasks as the purpose of recommender systems is to fulfill user interests. Lastly, real-life recommender systems require efficiency, posing challenges for the inference of diffusion models. To overcome these challenges, we propose a novel Discrete Conditional Diffusion Reranking (DCDR) framework for recommendation. DCDR extends traditional diffusion models by introducing a discrete forward process with tractable posteriors, which adds noise to item sequences through step-wise discrete operations (e.g., swapping). Additionally, DCDR incorporates a conditional reverse process that generates item sequences conditioned on expected user responses. Extensive offline experiments conducted on public datasets demonstrate that DCDR outperforms state-of-the-art reranking methods. Furthermore, DCDR has been deployed in a real-world video app with over 300 million daily active users, significantly enhancing online recommendation quality. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** HPFormer: Hyperspectral image prompt object tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07016  
**Abstract:** Hyperspectral imagery contains abundant spectral information beyond the visible RGB bands, providing rich discriminative details about objects in a scene. Leveraging such data has the potential to enhance visual tracking performance. While prior hyperspectral trackers employ CNN or hybrid CNN-Transformer architectures, we propose a novel approach HPFormer on Transformers to capitalize on their powerful representation learning capabilities. The core of HPFormer is a Hyperspectral Hybrid Attention (HHA) module which unifies feature extraction and fusion within one component through token interactions. Additionally, a Transform Band Module (TBM) is introduced to selectively aggregate spatial details and spectral signatures from the full hyperspectral input for injecting informative target representations. Extensive experiments demonstrate state-of-the-art performance of HPFormer on benchmark NIR and VIS tracking datasets. Our work provides new insights into harnessing the strengths of transformers and hyperspectral fusion to advance robust object tracking. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** AdvCLIP: Downstream-agnostic Adversarial Examples in Multimodal  Contrastive Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07026  
**Abstract:** Multimodal contrastive learning aims to train a general-purpose feature extractor, such as CLIP, on vast amounts of raw, unlabeled paired image-text data. This can greatly benefit various complex downstream tasks, including cross-modal image-text retrieval and image classification. Despite its promising prospect, the security issue of cross-modal pre-trained encoder has not been fully explored yet, especially when the pre-trained encoder is publicly available for commercial use. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** S3IM: Stochastic Structural SIMilarity and Its Unreasonable  Effectiveness for Neural Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07032  
**Abstract:** Recently, Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has shown great success in rendering novel-view images of a given scene by learning an implicit representation with only posed RGB images. NeRF and relevant neural field methods (e.g., neural surface representation) typically optimize a point-wise loss and make point-wise predictions, where one data point corresponds to one pixel. Unfortunately, this line of research failed to use the collective supervision of distant pixels, although it is known that pixels in an image or scene can provide rich structural information. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to design a nonlocal multiplex training paradigm for NeRF and relevant neural field methods via a novel Stochastic Structural SIMilarity (S3IM) loss that processes multiple data points as a whole set instead of process multiple inputs independently. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the unreasonable effectiveness of S3IM in improving NeRF and neural surface representation for nearly free. The improvements of quality metrics can be particularly significant for those relatively difficult tasks: e.g., the test MSE loss unexpectedly drops by more than 90% for TensoRF and DVGO over eight novel view synthesis tasks; a 198% F-score gain and a 64% Chamfer $L_{1}$ distance reduction for NeuS over eight surface reconstruction tasks. Moreover, S3IM is consistently robust even with sparse inputs, corrupted images, and dynamic scenes. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Bayesian Flow Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07037  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces Bayesian Flow Networks (BFNs), a new class of generative model in which the parameters of a set of independent distributions are modified with Bayesian inference in the light of noisy data samples, then passed as input to a neural network that outputs a second, interdependent distribution. Starting from a simple prior and iteratively updating the two distributions yields a generative procedure similar to the reverse process of diffusion models; however it is conceptually simpler in that no forward process is required. Discrete and continuous-time loss functions are derived for continuous, discretised and discrete data, along with sample generation procedures. Notably, the network inputs for discrete data lie on the probability simplex, and are therefore natively differentiable, paving the way for gradient-based sample guidance and few-step generation in discrete domains such as language modelling. The loss function directly optimises data compression and places no restrictions on the network architecture. In our experiments BFNs achieve competitive log-likelihoods for image modelling on dynamically binarized MNIST and CIFAR-10, and outperform all known discrete diffusion models on the text8 character-level language modelling task. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Teeth And Root Canals Segmentation Using ZXYFormer With Uncertainty  Guidance And Weight Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07072  
**Abstract:** This study attempts to segment teeth and root-canals simultaneously from CBCT images, but there are very challenging problems in this process. First, the clinical CBCT image data is very large (e.g., 672 *688 * 688), and the use of downsampling operation will lose useful information about teeth and root canals. Second, teeth and root canals are very different in morphology, and it is difficult for a simple network to identify them precisely. In addition, there are weak edges at the tooth, between tooth and root canal, which makes it very difficult to segment such weak edges. To this end, we propose a coarse-to-fine segmentation method based on inverse feature fusion transformer and uncertainty estimation to address above challenging problems. First, we use the downscaled volume data (e.g., 128 * 128 * 128) to conduct coarse segmentation and map it to the original volume to obtain the area of teeth and root canals. Then, we design a transformer with reverse feature fusion, which can bring better segmentation effect of different morphological objects by transferring deeper features to shallow features. Finally, we design an auxiliary branch to calculate and refine the difficult areas in order to improve the weak edge segmentation performance of teeth and root canals. Through the combined tooth and root canal segmentation experiment of 157 clinical high-resolution CBCT data, it is verified that the proposed method is superior to the existing tooth or root canal segmentation methods. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** ICPC: Instance-Conditioned Prompting with Contrastive Learning for  Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07078  
**Abstract:** Modern supervised semantic segmentation methods are usually finetuned based on the supervised or self-supervised models pre-trained on ImageNet. Recent work shows that transferring the knowledge from CLIP to semantic segmentation via prompt learning can achieve promising performance. The performance boost comes from the feature enhancement with multimodal alignment, i.e., the dot product between vision and text embeddings. However, how to improve the multimodal alignment for better transfer performance in dense tasks remains underexplored. In this work, we focus on improving the quality of vision-text alignment from two aspects of prompting design and loss function, and present an instance-conditioned prompting with contrastive learning (ICPC) framework. First, compared with the static prompt designs, we reveal that dynamic prompting conditioned on image content can more efficiently utilize the text encoder for complex dense tasks. Second, we propose an align-guided contrastive loss to refine the alignment of vision and text embeddings. We further propose lightweight multi-scale alignment for better performance. Extensive experiments on three large-scale datasets (ADE20K, COCO-Stuff10k, and ADE20K-Full) demonstrate that ICPC brings consistent improvements across diverse backbones. Taking ResNet-50 as an example, ICPC outperforms the state-of-the-art counterpart by 1.71%, 1.05%, and 1.41% mIoU on the three datasets, respectively. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Masked Motion Predictors are Strong 3D Action Representation Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07092  
**Abstract:** In 3D human action recognition, limited supervised data makes it challenging to fully tap into the modeling potential of powerful networks such as transformers. As a result, researchers have been actively investigating effective self-supervised pre-training strategies. In this work, we show that instead of following the prevalent pretext task to perform masked self-component reconstruction in human joints, explicit contextual motion modeling is key to the success of learning effective feature representation for 3D action recognition. Formally, we propose the Masked Motion Prediction (MAMP) framework. To be specific, the proposed MAMP takes as input the masked spatio-temporal skeleton sequence and predicts the corresponding temporal motion of the masked human joints. Considering the high temporal redundancy of the skeleton sequence, in our MAMP, the motion information also acts as an empirical semantic richness prior that guide the masking process, promoting better attention to semantically rich temporal regions. Extensive experiments on NTU-60, NTU-120, and PKU-MMD datasets show that the proposed MAMP pre-training substantially improves the performance of the adopted vanilla transformer, achieving state-of-the-art results without bells and whistles. The source code of our MAMP is available at https://github.com/maoyunyao/MAMP. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Large Language Models for Information Retrieval: A Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07107  
**Abstract:** As a primary means of information acquisition, information retrieval (IR) systems, such as search engines, have integrated themselves into our daily lives. These systems also serve as components of dialogue, question-answering, and recommender systems. The trajectory of IR has evolved dynamically from its origins in term-based methods to its integration with advanced neural models. While the neural models excel at capturing complex contextual signals and semantic nuances, thereby reshaping the IR landscape, they still face challenges such as data scarcity, interpretability, and the generation of contextually plausible yet potentially inaccurate responses. This evolution requires a combination of both traditional methods (such as term-based sparse retrieval methods with rapid response) and modern neural architectures (such as language models with powerful language understanding capacity). Meanwhile, the emergence of large language models (LLMs), typified by ChatGPT and GPT-4, has revolutionized natural language processing due to their remarkable language understanding, generation, generalization, and reasoning abilities. Consequently, recent research has sought to leverage LLMs to improve IR systems. Given the rapid evolution of this research trajectory, it is necessary to consolidate existing methodologies and provide nuanced insights through a comprehensive overview. In this survey, we delve into the confluence of LLMs and IR systems, including crucial aspects such as query rewriters, retrievers, rerankers, and readers. Additionally, we explore promising directions within this expanding field. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** SCSC: Spatial Cross-scale Convolution Module to Strengthen both CNNs and  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07110  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a module, Spatial Cross-scale Convolution (SCSC), which is verified to be effective in improving both CNNs and Transformers. Nowadays, CNNs and Transformers have been successful in a variety of tasks. Especially for Transformers, increasing works achieve state-of-the-art performance in the computer vision community. Therefore, researchers start to explore the mechanism of those architectures. Large receptive fields, sparse connections, weight sharing, and dynamic weight have been considered keys to designing effective base models. However, there are still some issues to be addressed: large dense kernels and self-attention are inefficient, and large receptive fields make it hard to capture local features. Inspired by the above analyses and to solve the mentioned problems, in this paper, we design a general module taking in these design keys to enhance both CNNs and Transformers. SCSC introduces an efficient spatial cross-scale encoder and spatial embed module to capture assorted features in one layer. On the face recognition task, FaceResNet with SCSC can improve 2.7% with 68% fewer FLOPs and 79% fewer parameters. On the ImageNet classification task, Swin Transformer with SCSC can achieve even better performance with 22% fewer FLOPs, and ResNet with CSCS can improve 5.3% with similar complexity. Furthermore, a traditional network (e.g., ResNet) embedded with SCSC can match Swin Transformer's performance. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Neural radiance fields in the industrial and robotics domain:  applications, research opportunities and use cases  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07118  
**Abstract:** The proliferation of technologies, such as extended reality (XR), has increased the demand for high-quality three-dimensional (3D) graphical representations. Industrial 3D applications encompass computer-aided design (CAD), finite element analysis (FEA), scanning, and robotics. However, current methods employed for industrial 3D representations suffer from high implementation costs and reliance on manual human input for accurate 3D modeling. To address these challenges, neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have emerged as a promising approach for learning 3D scene representations based on provided training 2D images. Despite a growing interest in NeRFs, their potential applications in various industrial subdomains are still unexplored. In this paper, we deliver a comprehensive examination of NeRF industrial applications while also providing direction for future research endeavors. We also present a series of proof-of-concept experiments that demonstrate the potential of NeRFs in the industrial domain. These experiments include NeRF-based video compression techniques and using NeRFs for 3D motion estimation in the context of collision avoidance. In the video compression experiment, our results show compression savings up to 48\% and 74\% for resolutions of 1920x1080 and 300x168, respectively. The motion estimation experiment used a 3D animation of a robotic arm to train Dynamic-NeRF (D-NeRF) and achieved an average disparity map PSNR of 23 dB and an SSIM of 0.97. The code for our experiments is publicly available at https://github.com/Maftej/iisnerf . 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** On the Importance of Spatial Relations for Few-shot Action Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07119  
**Abstract:** Deep learning has achieved great success in video recognition, yet still struggles to recognize novel actions when faced with only a few examples. To tackle this challenge, few-shot action recognition methods have been proposed to transfer knowledge from a source dataset to a novel target dataset with only one or a few labeled videos. However, existing methods mainly focus on modeling the temporal relations between the query and support videos while ignoring the spatial relations. In this paper, we find that the spatial misalignment between objects also occurs in videos, notably more common than the temporal inconsistency. We are thus motivated to investigate the importance of spatial relations and propose a more accurate few-shot action recognition method that leverages both spatial and temporal information. Particularly, a novel Spatial Alignment Cross Transformer (SA-CT) which learns to re-adjust the spatial relations and incorporates the temporal information is contributed. Experiments reveal that, even without using any temporal information, the performance of SA-CT is comparable to temporal based methods on 3/4 benchmarks. To further incorporate the temporal information, we propose a simple yet effective Temporal Mixer module. The Temporal Mixer enhances the video representation and improves the performance of the full SA-CT model, achieving very competitive results. In this work, we also exploit large-scale pretrained models for few-shot action recognition, providing useful insights for this research direction. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Active Bird2Vec: Towards End-to-End Bird Sound Monitoring with  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07121  
**Abstract:** We propose a shift towards end-to-end learning in bird sound monitoring by combining self-supervised (SSL) and deep active learning (DAL). Leveraging transformer models, we aim to bypass traditional spectrogram conversions, enabling direct raw audio processing. ActiveBird2Vec is set to generate high-quality bird sound representations through SSL, potentially accelerating the assessment of environmental changes and decision-making processes for wind farms. Additionally, we seek to utilize the wide variety of bird vocalizations through DAL, reducing the reliance on extensively labeled datasets by human experts. We plan to curate a comprehensive set of tasks through Huggingface Datasets, enhancing future comparability and reproducibility of bioacoustic research. A comparative analysis between various transformer models will be conducted to evaluate their proficiency in bird sound recognition tasks. We aim to accelerate the progression of avian bioacoustic research and contribute to more effective conservation strategies. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Natural Language is All a Graph Needs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07134  
**Abstract:** The emergence of large-scale pre-trained language models, such as ChatGPT, has revolutionized various research fields in artificial intelligence. Transformers-based large language models (LLMs) have gradually replaced CNNs and RNNs to unify fields of computer vision and natural language processing. Compared with the data that exists relatively independently such as images, videos or texts, graph is a type of data that contains rich structural and relational information. Meanwhile, natural language, as one of the most expressive mediums, excels in describing complex structures. However, existing work on incorporating graph learning problems into the generative language modeling framework remains very limited. As the importance of language models continues to grow, it becomes essential to explore whether LLMs can also replace GNNs as the foundational model for graphs. In this paper, we propose InstructGLM (Instruction-finetuned Graph Language Model), systematically design highly scalable prompts based on natural language instructions, and use natural language to describe the geometric structure and node features of the graph for instruction tuning an LLMs to perform learning and inference on graphs in a generative manner. Our method exceeds all competitive GNN baselines on ogbn-arxiv, Cora and PubMed datasets, which demonstrates the effectiveness of our method and sheds light on generative language models replacing GNNs as the foundation model for graph machine learning. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Diffusion Based Augmentation for Captioning and Retrieval in Cultural  Heritage  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07151  
**Abstract:** Cultural heritage applications and advanced machine learning models are creating a fruitful synergy to provide effective and accessible ways of interacting with artworks. Smart audio-guides, personalized art-related content and gamification approaches are just a few examples of how technology can be exploited to provide additional value to artists or exhibitions. Nonetheless, from a machine learning point of view, the amount of available artistic data is often not enough to train effective models. Off-the-shelf computer vision modules can still be exploited to some extent, yet a severe domain shift is present between art images and standard natural image datasets used to train such models. As a result, this can lead to degraded performance. This paper introduces a novel approach to address the challenges of limited annotated data and domain shifts in the cultural heritage domain. By leveraging generative vision-language models, we augment art datasets by generating diverse variations of artworks conditioned on their captions. This augmentation strategy enhances dataset diversity, bridging the gap between natural images and artworks, and improving the alignment of visual cues with knowledge from general-purpose datasets. The generated variations assist in training vision and language models with a deeper understanding of artistic characteristics and that are able to generate better captions with appropriate jargon. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** gSASRec: Reducing Overconfidence in Sequential Recommendation Trained  with Negative Sampling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07192  
**Abstract:** A large catalogue size is one of the central challenges in training recommendation models: a large number of items makes them memory and computationally inefficient to compute scores for all items during training, forcing these models to deploy negative sampling. However, negative sampling increases the proportion of positive interactions in the training data, and therefore models trained with negative sampling tend to overestimate the probabilities of positive interactions a phenomenon we call overconfidence. While the absolute values of the predicted scores or probabilities are not important for the ranking of retrieved recommendations, overconfident models may fail to estimate nuanced differences in the top-ranked items, resulting in degraded performance. In this paper, we show that overconfidence explains why the popular SASRec model underperforms when compared to BERT4Rec. This is contrary to the BERT4Rec authors explanation that the difference in performance is due to the bi-directional attention mechanism. To mitigate overconfidence, we propose a novel Generalised Binary Cross-Entropy Loss function (gBCE) and theoretically prove that it can mitigate overconfidence. We further propose the gSASRec model, an improvement over SASRec that deploys an increased number of negatives and the gBCE loss. We show through detailed experiments on three datasets that gSASRec does not exhibit the overconfidence problem. As a result, gSASRec can outperform BERT4Rec (e.g. +9.47% NDCG on the MovieLens-1M dataset), while requiring less training time (e.g. -73% training time on MovieLens-1M). Moreover, in contrast to BERT4Rec, gSASRec is suitable for large datasets that contain more than 1 million items. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Neural Categorical Priors for Physics-Based Character Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07200  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in learning reusable motion priors have demonstrated their effectiveness in generating naturalistic behaviors. In this paper, we propose a new learning framework in this paradigm for controlling physics-based characters with significantly improved motion quality and diversity over existing state-of-the-art methods. The proposed method uses reinforcement learning (RL) to initially track and imitate life-like movements from unstructured motion clips using the discrete information bottleneck, as adopted in the Vector Quantized Variational AutoEncoder (VQ-VAE). This structure compresses the most relevant information from the motion clips into a compact yet informative latent space, i.e., a discrete space over vector quantized codes. By sampling codes in the space from a trained categorical prior distribution, high-quality life-like behaviors can be generated, similar to the usage of VQ-VAE in computer vision. Although this prior distribution can be trained with the supervision of the encoder's output, it follows the original motion clip distribution in the dataset and could lead to imbalanced behaviors in our setting. To address the issue, we further propose a technique named prior shifting to adjust the prior distribution using curiosity-driven RL. The outcome distribution is demonstrated to offer sufficient behavioral diversity and significantly facilitates upper-level policy learning for downstream tasks. We conduct comprehensive experiments using humanoid characters on two challenging downstream tasks, sword-shield striking and two-player boxing game. Our results demonstrate that the proposed framework is capable of controlling the character to perform considerably high-quality movements in terms of behavioral strategies, diversity, and realism. Videos, codes, and data are available at https://tencent-roboticsx.github.io/NCP/. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** AudioFormer: Audio Transformer learns audio feature representations from  discrete acoustic codes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07221  
**Abstract:** We propose a method named AudioFormer, which learns audio feature representations through the acquisition of discrete acoustic codes and subsequently fine-tunes them for audio classification tasks. Initially, we introduce a novel perspective by considering the audio classification task as a form of natural language understanding (NLU). Leveraging an existing neural audio codec model, we generate discrete acoustic codes and utilize them to train a masked language model (MLM), thereby obtaining audio feature representations. Furthermore, we pioneer the integration of a \textbf{M}ulti-\textbf{P}ositive sample \textbf{C}ontrastive (MPC) learning approach. This method enables the learning of joint representations among multiple discrete acoustic codes within the same audio input. In our experiments, we treat discrete acoustic codes as textual data and train a masked language model using a cloze-like methodology, ultimately deriving high-quality audio representations. Notably, the MPC learning technique effectively captures collaborative representations among distinct positive samples. Our research outcomes demonstrate that AudioFormer attains significantly improved performance compared to prevailing monomodal audio classification models across multiple datasets, and even outperforms audio-visual multimodal classification models on select datasets. Specifically, our approach achieves remarkable results on datasets including AudioSet (2M, 20K), and FSD50K, with performance scores of 53.9, 45.1, and 65.6, respectively. We have openly shared both the code and models: \url{https://github.com/LZH-0225/AudioFormer.git}. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Distance Matters For Improving Performance Estimation Under Covariate  Shift  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07223  
**Abstract:** Performance estimation under covariate shift is a crucial component of safe AI model deployment, especially for sensitive use-cases. Recently, several solutions were proposed to tackle this problem, most leveraging model predictions or softmax confidence to derive accuracy estimates. However, under dataset shifts, confidence scores may become ill-calibrated if samples are too far from the training distribution. In this work, we show that taking into account distances of test samples to their expected training distribution can significantly improve performance estimation under covariate shift. Precisely, we introduce a "distance-check" to flag samples that lie too far from the expected distribution, to avoid relying on their untrustworthy model outputs in the accuracy estimation step. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this method on 13 image classification tasks, across a wide-range of natural and synthetic distribution shifts and hundreds of models, with a median relative MAE improvement of 27% over the best baseline across all tasks, and SOTA performance on 10 out of 13 tasks. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/melanibe/distance_matters_performance_estimation. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** RestoreFormer++: Towards Real-World Blind Face Restoration from  Undegraded Key-Value Pairs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07228  
**Abstract:** Blind face restoration aims at recovering high-quality face images from those with unknown degradations. Current algorithms mainly introduce priors to complement high-quality details and achieve impressive progress. However, most of these algorithms ignore abundant contextual information in the face and its interplay with the priors, leading to sub-optimal performance. Moreover, they pay less attention to the gap between the synthetic and real-world scenarios, limiting the robustness and generalization to real-world applications. In this work, we propose RestoreFormer++, which on the one hand introduces fully-spatial attention mechanisms to model the contextual information and the interplay with the priors, and on the other hand, explores an extending degrading model to help generate more realistic degraded face images to alleviate the synthetic-to-real-world gap. Compared with current algorithms, RestoreFormer++ has several crucial benefits. First, instead of using a multi-head self-attention mechanism like the traditional visual transformer, we introduce multi-head cross-attention over multi-scale features to fully explore spatial interactions between corrupted information and high-quality priors. In this way, it can facilitate RestoreFormer++ to restore face images with higher realness and fidelity. Second, in contrast to the recognition-oriented dictionary, we learn a reconstruction-oriented dictionary as priors, which contains more diverse high-quality facial details and better accords with the restoration target. Third, we introduce an extending degrading model that contains more realistic degraded scenarios for training data synthesizing, and thus helps to enhance the robustness and generalization of our RestoreFormer++ model. Extensive experiments show that RestoreFormer++ outperforms state-of-the-art algorithms on both synthetic and real-world datasets. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** A Unifying Generator Loss Function for Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07233  
**Abstract:** A unifying $\alpha$-parametrized generator loss function is introduced for a dual-objective generative adversarial network (GAN), which uses a canonical (or classical) discriminator loss function such as the one in the original GAN (VanillaGAN) system. The generator loss function is based on a symmetric class probability estimation type function, $\mathcal{L}_\alpha$, and the resulting GAN system is termed $\mathcal{L}_\alpha$-GAN. Under an optimal discriminator, it is shown that the generator's optimization problem consists of minimizing a Jensen-$f_\alpha$-divergence, a natural generalization of the Jensen-Shannon divergence, where $f_\alpha$ is a convex function expressed in terms of the loss function $\mathcal{L}_\alpha$. It is also demonstrated that this $\mathcal{L}_\alpha$-GAN problem recovers as special cases a number of GAN problems in the literature, including VanillaGAN, Least Squares GAN (LSGAN), Least $k$th order GAN (L$k$GAN) and the recently introduced $(\alpha_D,\alpha_G)$-GAN with $\alpha_D=1$. Finally, experimental results are conducted on three datasets, MNIST, CIFAR-10, and Stacked MNIST to illustrate the performance of various examples of the $\mathcal{L}_\alpha$-GAN system. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** EasyEdit: An Easy-to-use Knowledge Editing Framework for Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07269  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) usually suffer from knowledge cutoff or fallacy issues, which means they are unaware of unseen events or generate text with incorrect facts owing to the outdated/noisy data. To this end, many knowledge editing approaches for LLMs have emerged -- aiming to subtly inject/edit updated knowledge or adjust undesired behavior while minimizing the impact on unrelated inputs. Nevertheless, due to significant differences among various knowledge editing methods and the variations in task setups, there is no standard implementation framework available for the community, which hinders practitioners to apply knowledge editing to applications. To address these issues, we propose EasyEdit, an easy-to-use knowledge editing framework for LLMs. It supports various cutting-edge knowledge editing approaches and can be readily apply to many well-known LLMs such as T5, GPT-J, LlaMA, etc. Empirically, we report the knowledge editing results on LlaMA-2 with EasyEdit, demonstrating that knowledge editing surpasses traditional fine-tuning in terms of reliability and generalization. We have released the source code on GitHub at https://github.com/zjunlp/EasyEdit, along with Google Colab tutorials and comprehensive documentation for beginners to get started. Besides, we present an online system for real-time knowledge editing, and a demo video at 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Dialogue for Prompting: a Policy-Gradient-Based Discrete Prompt  Optimization for Few-shot Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07272  
**Abstract:** Prompt-based pre-trained language models (PLMs) paradigm have succeeded substantially in few-shot natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, prior discrete prompt optimization methods require expert knowledge to design the base prompt set and identify high-quality prompts, which is costly, inefficient, and subjective. Meanwhile, existing continuous prompt optimization methods improve the performance by learning the ideal prompts through the gradient information of PLMs, whose high computational cost, and low readability and generalizability are often concerning. To address the research gap, we propose a Dialogue-comprised Policy-gradient-based Discrete Prompt Optimization ($DP_2O$) method. We first design a multi-round dialogue alignment strategy for readability prompt set generation based on GPT-4. Furthermore, we propose an efficient prompt screening metric to identify high-quality prompts with linear complexity. Finally, we construct a reinforcement learning (RL) framework based on policy gradients to match the prompts to inputs optimally. By training a policy network with only 0.67% of the PLM parameter size on the tasks in the few-shot setting, $DP_2O$ outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) method by 1.52% in accuracy on average on four open-source datasets. Moreover, subsequent experiments also demonstrate that $DP_2O$ has good universality, robustness, and generalization ability. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** A Robust Approach Towards Distinguishing Natural and Computer Generated  Images using Multi-Colorspace fused and Enriched Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07279  
**Abstract:** The works in literature classifying natural and computer generated images are mostly designed as binary tasks either considering natural images versus computer graphics images only or natural images versus GAN generated images only, but not natural images versus both classes of the generated images. Also, even though this forensic classification task of distinguishing natural and computer generated images gets the support of the new convolutional neural networks and transformer based architectures that can give remarkable classification accuracies, they are seen to fail over the images that have undergone some post-processing operations usually performed to deceive the forensic algorithms, such as JPEG compression, gaussian noise, etc. This work proposes a robust approach towards distinguishing natural and computer generated images including both, computer graphics and GAN generated images using a fusion of two vision transformers where each of the transformer networks operates in different color spaces, one in RGB and the other in YCbCr color space. The proposed approach achieves high performance gain when compared to a set of baselines, and also achieves higher robustness and generalizability than the baselines. The features of the proposed model when visualized are seen to obtain higher separability for the classes than the input image features and the baseline features. This work also studies the attention map visualizations of the networks of the fused model and observes that the proposed methodology can capture more image information relevant to the forensic task of classifying natural and generated images. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** DiffSED: Sound Event Detection with Denoising Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07293  
**Abstract:** Sound Event Detection (SED) aims to predict the temporal boundaries of all the events of interest and their class labels, given an unconstrained audio sample. Taking either the splitand-classify (i.e., frame-level) strategy or the more principled event-level modeling approach, all existing methods consider the SED problem from the discriminative learning perspective. In this work, we reformulate the SED problem by taking a generative learning perspective. Specifically, we aim to generate sound temporal boundaries from noisy proposals in a denoising diffusion process, conditioned on a target audio sample. During training, our model learns to reverse the noising process by converting noisy latent queries to the groundtruth versions in the elegant Transformer decoder framework. Doing so enables the model generate accurate event boundaries from even noisy queries during inference. Extensive experiments on the Urban-SED and EPIC-Sounds datasets demonstrate that our model significantly outperforms existing alternatives, with 40+% faster convergence in training. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Neural Authorship Attribution: Stylometric Analysis on Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07305  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4, PaLM, and Llama have significantly propelled the generation of AI-crafted text. With rising concerns about their potential misuse, there is a pressing need for AI-generated-text forensics. Neural authorship attribution is a forensic effort, seeking to trace AI-generated text back to its originating LLM. The LLM landscape can be divided into two primary categories: proprietary and open-source. In this work, we delve into these emerging categories of LLMs, focusing on the nuances of neural authorship attribution. To enrich our understanding, we carry out an empirical analysis of LLM writing signatures, highlighting the contrasts between proprietary and open-source models, and scrutinizing variations within each group. By integrating stylometric features across lexical, syntactic, and structural aspects of language, we explore their potential to yield interpretable results and augment pre-trained language model-based classifiers utilized in neural authorship attribution. Our findings, based on a range of state-of-the-art LLMs, provide empirical insights into neural authorship attribution, paving the way for future investigations aimed at mitigating the threats posed by AI-generated misinformation. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Group Pose: A Simple Baseline for End-to-End Multi-person Pose  Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07313  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we study the problem of end-to-end multi-person pose estimation. State-of-the-art solutions adopt the DETR-like framework, and mainly develop the complex decoder, e.g., regarding pose estimation as keypoint box detection and combining with human detection in ED-Pose, hierarchically predicting with pose decoder and joint (keypoint) decoder in PETR. We present a simple yet effective transformer approach, named Group Pose. We simply regard $K$-keypoint pose estimation as predicting a set of $N\times K$ keypoint positions, each from a keypoint query, as well as representing each pose with an instance query for scoring $N$ pose predictions. Motivated by the intuition that the interaction, among across-instance queries of different types, is not directly helpful, we make a simple modification to decoder self-attention. We replace single self-attention over all the $N\times(K+1)$ queries with two subsequent group self-attentions: (i) $N$ within-instance self-attention, with each over $K$ keypoint queries and one instance query, and (ii) $(K+1)$ same-type across-instance self-attention, each over $N$ queries of the same type. The resulting decoder removes the interaction among across-instance type-different queries, easing the optimization and thus improving the performance. Experimental results on MS COCO and CrowdPose show that our approach without human box supervision is superior to previous methods with complex decoders, and even is slightly better than ED-Pose that uses human box supervision. $\href{https://github.com/Michel-liu/GroupPose-Paddle}{\rm Paddle}$ and $\href{https://github.com/Michel-liu/GroupPose}{\rm PyTorch}$ code are available. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** Jurassic World Remake: Bringing Ancient Fossils Back to Life via  Zero-Shot Long Image-to-Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07316  
**Abstract:** With a strong understanding of the target domain from natural language, we produce promising results in translating across large domain gaps and bringing skeletons back to life. In this work, we use text-guided latent diffusion models for zero-shot image-to-image translation (I2I) across large domain gaps (longI2I), where large amounts of new visual features and new geometry need to be generated to enter the target domain. Being able to perform translations across large domain gaps has a wide variety of real-world applications in criminology, astrology, environmental conservation, and paleontology. In this work, we introduce a new task Skull2Animal for translating between skulls and living animals. On this task, we find that unguided Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are not capable of translating across large domain gaps. Instead of these traditional I2I methods, we explore the use of guided diffusion and image editing models and provide a new benchmark model, Revive-2I, capable of performing zero-shot I2I via text-prompting latent diffusion models. We find that guidance is necessary for longI2I because, to bridge the large domain gap, prior knowledge about the target domain is needed. In addition, we find that prompting provides the best and most scalable information about the target domain as classifier-guided diffusion models require retraining for specific use cases and lack stronger constraints on the target domain because of the wide variety of images they are trained on. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Enhancing Phenotype Recognition in Clinical Notes Using Large Language  Models: PhenoBCBERT and PhenoGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06294  
**Abstract:** We hypothesize that large language models (LLMs) based on the transformer architecture can enable automated detection of clinical phenotype terms, including terms not documented in the HPO. In this study, we developed two types of models: PhenoBCBERT, a BERT-based model, utilizing Bio+Clinical BERT as its pre-trained model, and PhenoGPT, a GPT-based model that can be initialized from diverse GPT models, including open-source versions such as GPT-J, Falcon, and LLaMA, as well as closed-source versions such as GPT-3 and GPT-3.5. We compared our methods with PhenoTagger, a recently developed HPO recognition tool that combines rule-based and deep learning methods. We found that our methods can extract more phenotype concepts, including novel ones not characterized by HPO. We also performed case studies on biomedical literature to illustrate how new phenotype information can be recognized and extracted. We compared current BERT-based versus GPT-based models for phenotype tagging, in multiple aspects including model architecture, memory usage, speed, accuracy, and privacy protection. We also discussed the addition of a negation step and an HPO normalization layer to the transformer models for improved HPO term tagging. In conclusion, PhenoBCBERT and PhenoGPT enable the automated discovery of phenotype terms from clinical notes and biomedical literature, facilitating automated downstream tasks to derive new biological insights on human diseases. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Bilingual Streaming ASR with Grapheme units and Auxiliary Monolingual  Loss  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06327  
**Abstract:** We introduce a bilingual solution to support English as secondary locale for most primary locales in hybrid automatic speech recognition (ASR) settings. Our key developments constitute: (a) pronunciation lexicon with grapheme units instead of phone units, (b) a fully bilingual alignment model and subsequently bilingual streaming transformer model, (c) a parallel encoder structure with language identification (LID) loss, (d) parallel encoder with an auxiliary loss for monolingual projections. We conclude that in comparison to LID loss, our proposed auxiliary loss is superior in specializing the parallel encoders to respective monolingual locales, and that contributes to stronger bilingual learning. We evaluate our work on large-scale training and test tasks for bilingual Spanish (ES) and bilingual Italian (IT) applications. Our bilingual models demonstrate strong English code-mixing capability. In particular, the bilingual IT model improves the word error rate (WER) for a code-mix IT task from 46.5% to 13.8%, while also achieving a close parity (9.6%) with the monolingual IT model (9.5%) over IT tests. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Revolutionizing Space Health (Swin-FSR): Advancing Super-Resolution of  Fundus Images for SANS Visual Assessment Technology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06332  
**Abstract:** The rapid accessibility of portable and affordable retinal imaging devices has made early differential diagnosis easier. For example, color funduscopy imaging is readily available in remote villages, which can help to identify diseases like age-related macular degeneration (AMD), glaucoma, or pathological myopia (PM). On the other hand, astronauts at the International Space Station utilize this camera for identifying spaceflight-associated neuro-ocular syndrome (SANS). However, due to the unavailability of experts in these locations, the data has to be transferred to an urban healthcare facility (AMD and glaucoma) or a terrestrial station (e.g, SANS) for more precise disease identification. Moreover, due to low bandwidth limits, the imaging data has to be compressed for transfer between these two places. Different super-resolution algorithms have been proposed throughout the years to address this. Furthermore, with the advent of deep learning, the field has advanced so much that x2 and x4 compressed images can be decompressed to their original form without losing spatial information. In this paper, we introduce a novel model called Swin-FSR that utilizes Swin Transformer with spatial and depth-wise attention for fundus image super-resolution. Our architecture achieves Peak signal-to-noise-ratio (PSNR) of 47.89, 49.00 and 45.32 on three public datasets, namely iChallenge-AMD, iChallenge-PM, and G1020. Additionally, we tested the model's effectiveness on a privately held dataset for SANS provided by NASA and achieved comparable results against previous architectures. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** CATS v2: Hybrid encoders for robust medical segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06377  
**Abstract:** Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have exhibited strong performance in medical image segmentation tasks by capturing high-level (local) information, such as edges and textures. However, due to the limited field of view of convolution kernel, it is hard for CNNs to fully represent global information. Recently, transformers have shown good performance for medical image segmentation due to their ability to better model long-range dependencies. Nevertheless, transformers struggle to capture high-level spatial features as effectively as CNNs. A good segmentation model should learn a better representation from local and global features to be both precise and semantically accurate. In our previous work, we proposed CATS, which is a U-shaped segmentation network augmented with transformer encoder. In this work, we further extend this model and propose CATS v2 with hybrid encoders. Specifically, hybrid encoders consist of a CNN-based encoder path paralleled to a transformer path with a shifted window, which better leverage both local and global information to produce robust 3D medical image segmentation. We fuse the information from the convolutional encoder and the transformer at the skip connections of different resolutions to form the final segmentation. The proposed method is evaluated on two public challenge datasets: Cross-Modality Domain Adaptation (CrossMoDA) and task 5 of Medical Segmentation Decathlon (MSD-5), to segment vestibular schwannoma (VS) and prostate, respectively. Compared with the state-of-the-art methods, our approach demonstrates superior performance in terms of higher Dice scores. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Unsupervised Image Denoising in Real-World Scenarios via  Self-Collaboration Parallel Generative Adversarial Branches  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06776  
**Abstract:** Deep learning methods have shown remarkable performance in image denoising, particularly when trained on large-scale paired datasets. However, acquiring such paired datasets for real-world scenarios poses a significant challenge. Although unsupervised approaches based on generative adversarial networks offer a promising solution for denoising without paired datasets, they are difficult in surpassing the performance limitations of conventional GAN-based unsupervised frameworks without significantly modifying existing structures or increasing the computational complexity of denoisers. To address this problem, we propose a SC strategy for multiple denoisers. This strategy can achieve significant performance improvement without increasing the inference complexity of the GAN-based denoising framework. Its basic idea is to iteratively replace the previous less powerful denoiser in the filter-guided noise extraction module with the current powerful denoiser. This process generates better synthetic clean-noisy image pairs, leading to a more powerful denoiser for the next iteration. This baseline ensures the stability and effectiveness of the training network. The experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our method over state-of-the-art unsupervised methods. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Shape-guided Conditional Latent Diffusion Models for Synthesising Brain  Vasculature  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06781  
**Abstract:** The Circle of Willis (CoW) is the part of cerebral vasculature responsible for delivering blood to the brain. Understanding the diverse anatomical variations and configurations of the CoW is paramount to advance research on cerebrovascular diseases and refine clinical interventions. However, comprehensive investigation of less prevalent CoW variations remains challenging because of the dominance of a few commonly occurring configurations. We propose a novel generative approach utilising a conditional latent diffusion model with shape and anatomical guidance to generate realistic 3D CoW segmentations, including different phenotypical variations. Our conditional latent diffusion model incorporates shape guidance to better preserve vessel continuity and demonstrates superior performance when compared to alternative generative models, including conditional variants of 3D GAN and 3D VAE. We observed that our model generated CoW variants that are more realistic and demonstrate higher visual fidelity than competing approaches with an FID score 53\% better than the best-performing GAN-based model. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** How inter-rater variability relates to aleatoric and epistemic  uncertainty: a case study with deep learning-based paraspinal muscle  segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.06964  
**Abstract:** Recent developments in deep learning (DL) techniques have led to great performance improvement in medical image segmentation tasks, especially with the latest Transformer model and its variants. While labels from fusing multi-rater manual segmentations are often employed as ideal ground truths in DL model training, inter-rater variability due to factors such as training bias, image noise, and extreme anatomical variability can still affect the performance and uncertainty of the resulting algorithms. Knowledge regarding how inter-rater variability affects the reliability of the resulting DL algorithms, a key element in clinical deployment, can help inform better training data construction and DL models, but has not been explored extensively. In this paper, we measure aleatoric and epistemic uncertainties using test-time augmentation (TTA), test-time dropout (TTD), and deep ensemble to explore their relationship with inter-rater variability. Furthermore, we compare UNet and TransUNet to study the impacts of Transformers on model uncertainty with two label fusion strategies. We conduct a case study using multi-class paraspinal muscle segmentation from T2w MRIs. Our study reveals the interplay between inter-rater variability and uncertainties, affected by choices of label fusion strategies and DL models. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Pairing interacting protein sequences using masked language modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07136  
**Abstract:** Predicting which proteins interact together from amino-acid sequences is an important task. We develop a method to pair interacting protein sequences which leverages the power of protein language models trained on multiple sequence alignments, such as MSA Transformer and the EvoFormer module of AlphaFold. We formulate the problem of pairing interacting partners among the paralogs of two protein families in a differentiable way. We introduce a method called DiffPALM that solves it by exploiting the ability of MSA Transformer to fill in masked amino acids in multiple sequence alignments using the surrounding context. MSA Transformer encodes coevolution between functionally or structurally coupled amino acids. We show that it captures inter-chain coevolution, while it was trained on single-chain data, which means that it can be used out-of-distribution. Relying on MSA Transformer without fine-tuning, DiffPALM outperforms existing coevolution-based pairing methods on difficult benchmarks of shallow multiple sequence alignments extracted from ubiquitous prokaryotic protein datasets. It also outperforms an alternative method based on a state-of-the-art protein language model trained on single sequences. Paired alignments of interacting protein sequences are a crucial ingredient of supervised deep learning methods to predict the three-dimensional structure of protein complexes. DiffPALM substantially improves the structure prediction of some eukaryotic protein complexes by AlphaFold-Multimer, without significantly deteriorating any of those we tested. It also achieves competitive performance with using orthology-based pairing. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Large-kernel Attention for Efficient and Robust Brain Lesion  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07251  
**Abstract:** Vision transformers are effective deep learning models for vision tasks, including medical image segmentation. However, they lack efficiency and translational invariance, unlike convolutional neural networks (CNNs). To model long-range interactions in 3D brain lesion segmentation, we propose an all-convolutional transformer block variant of the U-Net architecture. We demonstrate that our model provides the greatest compromise in three factors: performance competitive with the state-of-the-art; parameter efficiency of a CNN; and the favourable inductive biases of a transformer. Our public implementation is available at https://github.com/liamchalcroft/MDUNet . 

