**ID:** 1  
**Title:** AI Text-to-Behavior: A Study In Steerability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07326  
**Abstract:** The research explores the steerability of Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly OpenAI's ChatGPT iterations. By employing a behavioral psychology framework called OCEAN (Openness, Conscientiousness, Extroversion, Agreeableness, Neuroticism), we quantitatively gauged the model's responsiveness to tailored prompts. When asked to generate text mimicking an extroverted personality, OCEAN scored the language alignment to that behavioral trait. In our analysis, while "openness" presented linguistic ambiguity, "conscientiousness" and "neuroticism" were distinctly evoked in the OCEAN framework, with "extroversion" and "agreeableness" showcasing a notable overlap yet distinct separation from other traits. Our findings underscore GPT's versatility and ability to discern and adapt to nuanced instructions. Furthermore, historical figure simulations highlighted the LLM's capacity to internalize and project instructible personas, precisely replicating their philosophies and dialogic styles. However, the rapid advancements in LLM capabilities and the opaque nature of some training techniques make metric proposals degrade rapidly. Our research emphasizes a quantitative role to describe steerability in LLMs, presenting both its promise and areas for further refinement in aligning its progress to human intentions. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** A Unified Query-based Paradigm for Camouflaged Instance Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07392  
**Abstract:** Due to the high similarity between camouflaged instances and the background, the recently proposed camouflaged instance segmentation (CIS) faces challenges in accurate localization and instance segmentation. To this end, inspired by query-based transformers, we propose a unified query-based multi-task learning framework for camouflaged instance segmentation, termed UQFormer, which builds a set of mask queries and a set of boundary queries to learn a shared composed query representation and efficiently integrates global camouflaged object region and boundary cues, for simultaneous instance segmentation and instance boundary detection in camouflaged scenarios. Specifically, we design a composed query learning paradigm that learns a shared representation to capture object region and boundary features by the cross-attention interaction of mask queries and boundary queries in the designed multi-scale unified learning transformer decoder. Then, we present a transformer-based multi-task learning framework for simultaneous camouflaged instance segmentation and camouflaged instance boundary detection based on the learned composed query representation, which also forces the model to learn a strong instance-level query representation. Notably, our model views the instance segmentation as a query-based direct set prediction problem, without other post-processing such as non-maximal suppression. Compared with 14 state-of-the-art approaches, our UQFormer significantly improves the performance of camouflaged instance segmentation. Our code will be available at https://github.com/dongbo811/UQFormer. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Development and Evaluation of Three Chatbots for Postpartum Mood and  Anxiety Disorders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07407  
**Abstract:** In collaboration with Postpartum Support International (PSI), a non-profit organization dedicated to supporting caregivers with postpartum mood and anxiety disorders, we developed three chatbots to provide context-specific empathetic support to postpartum caregivers, leveraging both rule-based and generative models. We present and evaluate the performance of our chatbots using both machine-based metrics and human-based questionnaires. Overall, our rule-based model achieves the best performance, with outputs that are close to ground truth reference and contain the highest levels of empathy. Human users prefer the rule-based chatbot over the generative chatbot for its context-specific and human-like replies. Our generative chatbot also produced empathetic responses and was described by human users as engaging. However, limitations in the training dataset often result in confusing or nonsensical responses. We conclude by discussing practical benefits of rule-based vs. generative models for supporting individuals with mental health challenges. In light of the recent surge of ChatGPT and BARD, we also discuss the possibilities and pitfalls of large language models for digital mental healthcare. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Exploring the Intersection of Large Language Models and Agent-Based  Modeling via Prompt Engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07411  
**Abstract:** The final frontier for simulation is the accurate representation of complex, real-world social systems. While agent-based modeling (ABM) seeks to study the behavior and interactions of agents within a larger system, it is unable to faithfully capture the full complexity of human-driven behavior. Large language models (LLMs), like ChatGPT, have emerged as a potential solution to this bottleneck by enabling researchers to explore human-driven interactions in previously unimaginable ways. Our research investigates simulations of human interactions using LLMs. Through prompt engineering, inspired by Park et al. (2023), we present two simulations of believable proxies of human behavior: a two-agent negotiation and a six-agent murder mystery game. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Semantify: Simplifying the Control of 3D Morphable Models using CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07415  
**Abstract:** We present Semantify: a self-supervised method that utilizes the semantic power of CLIP language-vision foundation model to simplify the control of 3D morphable models. Given a parametric model, training data is created by randomly sampling the model's parameters, creating various shapes and rendering them. The similarity between the output images and a set of word descriptors is calculated in CLIP's latent space. Our key idea is first to choose a small set of semantically meaningful and disentangled descriptors that characterize the 3DMM, and then learn a non-linear mapping from scores across this set to the parametric coefficients of the given 3DMM. The non-linear mapping is defined by training a neural network without a human-in-the-loop. We present results on numerous 3DMMs: body shape models, face shape and expression models, as well as animal shapes. We demonstrate how our method defines a simple slider interface for intuitive modeling, and show how the mapping can be used to instantly fit a 3D parametric body shape to in-the-wild images. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** U-Turn Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07421  
**Abstract:** We present a comprehensive examination of score-based diffusion models of AI for generating synthetic images. These models hinge upon a dynamic auxiliary time mechanism driven by stochastic differential equations, wherein the score function is acquired from input images. Our investigation unveils a criterion for evaluating efficiency of the score-based diffusion models: the power of the generative process depends on the ability to de-construct fast correlations during the reverse/de-noising phase. To improve the quality of the produced synthetic images, we introduce an approach coined "U-Turn Diffusion". The U-Turn Diffusion technique starts with the standard forward diffusion process, albeit with a condensed duration compared to conventional settings. Subsequently, we execute the standard reverse dynamics, initialized with the concluding configuration from the forward process. This U-Turn Diffusion procedure, combining forward, U-turn, and reverse processes, creates a synthetic image approximating an independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) sample from the probability distribution implicitly described via input samples. To analyze relevant time scales we employ various analytical tools, including auto-correlation analysis, weighted norm of the score-function analysis, and Kolmogorov-Smirnov Gaussianity test. The tools guide us to establishing that the Kernel Intersection Distance, a metric comparing the quality of synthetic samples with real data samples, is minimized at the optimal U-turn time. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** UniBrain: Unify Image Reconstruction and Captioning All in One Diffusion  Model from Human Brain Activity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07428  
**Abstract:** Image reconstruction and captioning from brain activity evoked by visual stimuli allow researchers to further understand the connection between the human brain and the visual perception system. While deep generative models have recently been employed in this field, reconstructing realistic captions and images with both low-level details and high semantic fidelity is still a challenging problem. In this work, we propose UniBrain: Unify Image Reconstruction and Captioning All in One Diffusion Model from Human Brain Activity. For the first time, we unify image reconstruction and captioning from visual-evoked functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) through a latent diffusion model termed Versatile Diffusion. Specifically, we transform fMRI voxels into text and image latent for low-level information and guide the backward diffusion process through fMRI-based image and text conditions derived from CLIP to generate realistic captions and images. UniBrain outperforms current methods both qualitatively and quantitatively in terms of image reconstruction and reports image captioning results for the first time on the Natural Scenes Dataset (NSD) dataset. Moreover, the ablation experiments and functional region-of-interest (ROI) analysis further exhibit the superiority of UniBrain and provide comprehensive insight for visual-evoked brain decoding. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Semantic Similarity Loss for Neural Source Code Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07429  
**Abstract:** This paper presents an improved loss function for neural source code summarization. Code summarization is the task of writing natural language descriptions of source code. Neural code summarization refers to automated techniques for generating these descriptions using neural networks. Almost all current approaches involve neural networks as either standalone models or as part of a pretrained large language models e.g., GPT, Codex, LLaMA. Yet almost all also use a categorical cross-entropy (CCE) loss function for network optimization. Two problems with CCE are that 1) it computes loss over each word prediction one-at-a-time, rather than evaluating a whole sentence, and 2) it requires a perfect prediction, leaving no room for partial credit for synonyms. We propose and evaluate a loss function to alleviate this problem. In essence, we propose to use a semantic similarity metric to calculate loss over the whole output sentence prediction per training batch, rather than just loss for each word. We also propose to combine our loss with traditional CCE for each word, which streamlines the training process compared to baselines. We evaluate our approach over several baselines and report an improvement in the vast majority of conditions. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Wide-Area Geolocalization with a Limited Field of View Camera in  Challenging Urban Environments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07432  
**Abstract:** Cross-view geolocalization, a supplement or replacement for GPS, localizes an agent within a search area by matching ground-view images to overhead images. Significant progress has been made assuming a panoramic ground camera. Panoramic cameras' high complexity and cost make non-panoramic cameras more widely applicable, but also more challenging since they yield less scene overlap between ground and overhead images. This paper presents Restricted FOV Wide-Area Geolocalization (ReWAG), a cross-view geolocalization approach that combines a neural network and particle filter to globally localize a mobile agent with only odometry and a non-panoramic camera. ReWAG creates pose-aware embeddings and provides a strategy to incorporate particle pose into the Siamese network, improving localization accuracy by a factor of 100 compared to a vision transformer baseline. This extended work also presents ReWAG*, which improves upon ReWAG's generalization ability in previously unseen environments. ReWAG* repeatedly converges accurately on a dataset of images we have collected in Boston with a 72 degree field of view (FOV) camera, a location and FOV that ReWAG* was not trained on. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Physics-Informed Deep Learning to Reduce the Bias in Joint Prediction of  Nitrogen Oxides  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07441  
**Abstract:** Atmospheric nitrogen oxides (NOx) primarily from fuel combustion have recognized acute and chronic health and environmental effects. Machine learning (ML) methods have significantly enhanced our capacity to predict NOx concentrations at ground-level with high spatiotemporal resolution but may suffer from high estimation bias since they lack physical and chemical knowledge about air pollution dynamics. Chemical transport models (CTMs) leverage this knowledge; however, accurate predictions of ground-level concentrations typically necessitate extensive post-calibration. Here, we present a physics-informed deep learning framework that encodes advection-diffusion mechanisms and fluid dynamics constraints to jointly predict NO2 and NOx and reduce ML model bias by 21-42%. Our approach captures fine-scale transport of NO2 and NOx, generates robust spatial extrapolation, and provides explicit uncertainty estimation. The framework fuses knowledge-driven physicochemical principles of CTMs with the predictive power of ML for air quality exposure, health, and policy applications. Our approach offers significant improvements over purely data-driven ML methods and has unprecedented bias reduction in joint NO2 and NOx prediction. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Playing with Words: Comparing the Vocabulary and Lexical Richness of  ChatGPT and Humans  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07462  
**Abstract:** The introduction of Artificial Intelligence (AI) generative language models such as GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) and tools such as ChatGPT has triggered a revolution that can transform how text is generated. This has many implications, for example, as AI-generated text becomes a significant fraction of the text in many disciplines, would this have an effect on the language capabilities of readers and also on the training of newer AI tools? Would it affect the evolution of languages? Focusing on one specific aspect of the language: words; will the use of tools such as ChatGPT increase or reduce the vocabulary used or the lexical richness (understood as the number of different words used in a written or oral production) when writing a given text? This has implications for words, as those not included in AI-generated content will tend to be less and less popular and may eventually be lost. In this work, we perform an initial comparison of the vocabulary and lexical richness of ChatGPT and humans when performing the same tasks. In more detail, two datasets containing the answers to different types of questions answered by ChatGPT and humans are used, and the analysis shows that ChatGPT tends to use fewer distinct words and lower lexical richness than humans. These results are very preliminary and additional datasets and ChatGPT configurations have to be evaluated to extract more general conclusions. Therefore, further research is needed to understand how the use of ChatGPT and more broadly generative AI tools will affect the vocabulary and lexical richness in different types of text and languages. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** There Is a Digital Art History  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07464  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we revisit Johanna Drucker's question, "Is there a digital art history?" -- posed exactly a decade ago -- in the light of the emergence of large-scale, transformer-based vision models. While more traditional types of neural networks have long been part of digital art history, and digital humanities projects have recently begun to use transformer models, their epistemic implications and methodological affordances have not yet been systematically analyzed. We focus our analysis on two main aspects that, together, seem to suggest a coming paradigm shift towards a "digital" art history in Drucker's sense. On the one hand, the visual-cultural repertoire newly encoded in large-scale vision models has an outsized effect on digital art history. The inclusion of significant numbers of non-photographic images allows for the extraction and automation of different forms of visual logics. Large-scale vision models have "seen" large parts of the Western visual canon mediated by Net visual culture, and they continuously solidify and concretize this canon through their already widespread application in all aspects of digital life. On the other hand, based on two technical case studies of utilizing a contemporary large-scale visual model to investigate basic questions from the fields of art history and urbanism, we suggest that such systems require a new critical methodology that takes into account the epistemic entanglement of a model and its applications. This new methodology reads its corpora through a neural model's training data, and vice versa: the visual ideologies of research datasets and training datasets become entangled. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** ICAFusion: Iterative Cross-Attention Guided Feature Fusion for  Multispectral Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07504  
**Abstract:** Effective feature fusion of multispectral images plays a crucial role in multi-spectral object detection. Previous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of feature fusion using convolutional neural networks, but these methods are sensitive to image misalignment due to the inherent deffciency in local-range feature interaction resulting in the performance degradation. To address this issue, a novel feature fusion framework of dual cross-attention transformers is proposed to model global feature interaction and capture complementary information across modalities simultaneously. This framework enhances the discriminability of object features through the query-guided cross-attention mechanism, leading to improved performance. However, stacking multiple transformer blocks for feature enhancement incurs a large number of parameters and high spatial complexity. To handle this, inspired by the human process of reviewing knowledge, an iterative interaction mechanism is proposed to share parameters among block-wise multimodal transformers, reducing model complexity and computation cost. The proposed method is general and effective to be integrated into different detection frameworks and used with different backbones. Experimental results on KAIST, FLIR, and VEDAI datasets show that the proposed method achieves superior performance and faster inference, making it suitable for various practical scenarios. Code will be available at https://github.com/chanchanchan97/ICAFusion. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Finding Stakeholder-Material Information from 10-K Reports using  Fine-Tuned BERT and LSTM Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07522  
**Abstract:** All public companies are required by federal securities law to disclose their business and financial activities in their annual 10-K reports. Each report typically spans hundreds of pages, making it difficult for human readers to identify and extract the material information efficiently. To solve the problem, I have fine-tuned BERT models and RNN models with LSTM layers to identify stakeholder-material information, defined as statements that carry information about a company's influence on its stakeholders, including customers, employees, investors, and the community and natural environment. The existing practice uses keyword search to identify such information, which is my baseline model. Using business expert-labeled training data of nearly 6,000 sentences from 62 10-K reports published in 2022, the best model has achieved an accuracy of 0.904 and an F1 score of 0.899 in test data, significantly above the baseline model's 0.781 and 0.749 respectively. Furthermore, the same work was replicated on more granular taxonomies, based on which four distinct groups of stakeholders (i.e., customers, investors, employees, and the community and natural environment) are tested separately. Similarly, fined-tuned BERT models outperformed LSTM and the baseline. The implications for industry application and ideas for future extensions are discussed. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Visual and Textual Prior Guided Mask Assemble for Few-Shot Segmentation  and Beyond  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07539  
**Abstract:** Few-shot segmentation (FSS) aims to segment the novel classes with a few annotated images. Due to CLIP's advantages of aligning visual and textual information, the integration of CLIP can enhance the generalization ability of FSS model. However, even with the CLIP model, the existing CLIP-based FSS methods are still subject to the biased prediction towards base classes, which is caused by the class-specific feature level interactions. To solve this issue, we propose a visual and textual Prior Guided Mask Assemble Network (PGMA-Net). It employs a class-agnostic mask assembly process to alleviate the bias, and formulates diverse tasks into a unified manner by assembling the prior through affinity. Specifically, the class-relevant textual and visual features are first transformed to class-agnostic prior in the form of probability map. Then, a Prior-Guided Mask Assemble Module (PGMAM) including multiple General Assemble Units (GAUs) is introduced. It considers diverse and plug-and-play interactions, such as visual-textual, inter- and intra-image, training-free, and high-order ones. Lastly, to ensure the class-agnostic ability, a Hierarchical Decoder with Channel-Drop Mechanism (HDCDM) is proposed to flexibly exploit the assembled masks and low-level features, without relying on any class-specific information. It achieves new state-of-the-art results in the FSS task, with mIoU of $77.6$ on $\text{PASCAL-}5^i$ and $59.4$ on $\text{COCO-}20^i$ in 1-shot scenario. Beyond this, we show that without extra re-training, the proposed PGMA-Net can solve bbox-level and cross-domain FSS, co-segmentation, zero-shot segmentation (ZSS) tasks, leading an any-shot segmentation framework. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** CALYPSO: LLMs as Dungeon Masters' Assistants  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07540  
**Abstract:** The role of a Dungeon Master, or DM, in the game Dungeons & Dragons is to perform multiple tasks simultaneously. The DM must digest information about the game setting and monsters, synthesize scenes to present to other players, and respond to the players' interactions with the scene. Doing all of these tasks while maintaining consistency within the narrative and story world is no small feat of human cognition, making the task tiring and unapproachable to new players. Large language models (LLMs) like GPT-3 and ChatGPT have shown remarkable abilities to generate coherent natural language text. In this paper, we conduct a formative evaluation with DMs to establish the use cases of LLMs in D&D and tabletop gaming generally. We introduce CALYPSO, a system of LLM-powered interfaces that support DMs with information and inspiration specific to their own scenario. CALYPSO distills game context into bite-sized prose and helps brainstorm ideas without distracting the DM from the game. When given access to CALYPSO, DMs reported that it generated high-fidelity text suitable for direct presentation to players, and low-fidelity ideas that the DM could develop further while maintaining their creative agency. We see CALYPSO as exemplifying a paradigm of AI-augmented tools that provide synchronous creative assistance within established game worlds, and tabletop gaming more broadly. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** SST: A Simplified Swin Transformer-based Model for Taxi Destination  Prediction based on Existing Trajectory  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07555  
**Abstract:** Accurately predicting the destination of taxi trajectories can have various benefits for intelligent location-based services. One potential method to accomplish this prediction is by converting the taxi trajectory into a two-dimensional grid and using computer vision techniques. While the Swin Transformer is an innovative computer vision architecture with demonstrated success in vision downstream tasks, it is not commonly used to solve real-world trajectory problems. In this paper, we propose a simplified Swin Transformer (SST) structure that does not use the shifted window idea in the traditional Swin Transformer, as trajectory data is consecutive in nature. Our comprehensive experiments, based on real trajectory data, demonstrate that SST can achieve higher accuracy compared to state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Understanding User Behavior in Volumetric Video Watching: Dataset,  Analysis and Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07578  
**Abstract:** Volumetric video emerges as a new attractive video paradigm in recent years since it provides an immersive and interactive 3D viewing experience with six degree-of-freedom (DoF). Unlike traditional 2D or panoramic videos, volumetric videos require dense point clouds, voxels, meshes, or huge neural models to depict volumetric scenes, which results in a prohibitively high bandwidth burden for video delivery. Users' behavior analysis, especially the viewport and gaze analysis, then plays a significant role in prioritizing the content streaming within users' viewport and degrading the remaining content to maximize user QoE with limited bandwidth. Although understanding user behavior is crucial, to the best of our best knowledge, there are no available 3D volumetric video viewing datasets containing fine-grained user interactivity features, not to mention further analysis and behavior prediction. In this paper, we for the first time release a volumetric video viewing behavior dataset, with a large scale, multiple dimensions, and diverse conditions. We conduct an in-depth analysis to understand user behaviors when viewing volumetric videos. Interesting findings on user viewport, gaze, and motion preference related to different videos and users are revealed. We finally design a transformer-based viewport prediction model that fuses the features of both gaze and motion, which is able to achieve high accuracy at various conditions. Our prediction model is expected to further benefit volumetric video streaming optimization. Our dataset, along with the corresponding visualization tools is accessible at https://cuhksz-inml.github.io/user-behavior-in-vv-watching/ 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Graph-Segmenter: Graph Transformer with Boundary-aware Attention for  Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07592  
**Abstract:** The transformer-based semantic segmentation approaches, which divide the image into different regions by sliding windows and model the relation inside each window, have achieved outstanding success. However, since the relation modeling between windows was not the primary emphasis of previous work, it was not fully utilized. To address this issue, we propose a Graph-Segmenter, including a Graph Transformer and a Boundary-aware Attention module, which is an effective network for simultaneously modeling the more profound relation between windows in a global view and various pixels inside each window as a local one, and for substantial low-cost boundary adjustment. Specifically, we treat every window and pixel inside the window as nodes to construct graphs for both views and devise the Graph Transformer. The introduced boundary-aware attention module optimizes the edge information of the target objects by modeling the relationship between the pixel on the object's edge. Extensive experiments on three widely used semantic segmentation datasets (Cityscapes, ADE-20k and PASCAL Context) demonstrate that our proposed network, a Graph Transformer with Boundary-aware Attention, can achieve state-of-the-art segmentation performance. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** VBD-MT Chinese-Vietnamese Translation Systems for VLSP 2022  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07601  
**Abstract:** We present our systems participated in the VLSP 2022 machine translation shared task. In the shared task this year, we participated in both translation tasks, i.e., Chinese-Vietnamese and Vietnamese-Chinese translations. We build our systems based on the neural-based Transformer model with the powerful multilingual denoising pre-trained model mBART. The systems are enhanced by a sampling method for backtranslation, which leverage large scale available monolingual data. Additionally, several other methods are applied to improve the translation quality including ensembling and postprocessing. We achieve 38.9 BLEU on ChineseVietnamese and 38.0 BLEU on VietnameseChinese on the public test sets, which outperform several strong baselines. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** SGDiff: A Style Guided Diffusion Model for Fashion Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07605  
**Abstract:** This paper reports on the development of \textbf{a novel style guided diffusion model (SGDiff)} which overcomes certain weaknesses inherent in existing models for image synthesis. The proposed SGDiff combines image modality with a pretrained text-to-image diffusion model to facilitate creative fashion image synthesis. It addresses the limitations of text-to-image diffusion models by incorporating supplementary style guidance, substantially reducing training costs, and overcoming the difficulties of controlling synthesized styles with text-only inputs. This paper also introduces a new dataset -- SG-Fashion, specifically designed for fashion image synthesis applications, offering high-resolution images and an extensive range of garment categories. By means of comprehensive ablation study, we examine the application of classifier-free guidance to a variety of conditions and validate the effectiveness of the proposed model for generating fashion images of the desired categories, product attributes, and styles. The contributions of this paper include a novel classifier-free guidance method for multi-modal feature fusion, a comprehensive dataset for fashion image synthesis application, a thorough investigation on conditioned text-to-image synthesis, and valuable insights for future research in the text-to-image synthesis domain. The code and dataset are available at: \url{https://github.com/taited/SGDiff}. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Block-Wise Encryption for Reliable Vision Transformer models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07612  
**Abstract:** This article presents block-wise image encryption for the vision transformer and its applications. Perceptual image encryption for deep learning enables us not only to protect the visual information of plain images but to also embed unique features controlled with a key into images and models. However, when using conventional perceptual encryption methods, the performance of models is degraded due to the influence of encryption. In this paper, we focus on block-wise encryption for the vision transformer, and we introduce three applications: privacy-preserving image classification, access control, and the combined use of federated learning and encrypted images. Our scheme can have the same performance as models without any encryption, and it does not require any network modification. It also allows us to easily update the secret key. In experiments, the effectiveness of the scheme is demonstrated in terms of performance degradation and access control on the CIFAR10 and CIFAR-100 datasets. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** LLM-Mini-CEX: Automatic Evaluation of Large Language Model for  Diagnostic Conversation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07635  
**Abstract:** There is an increasing interest in developing LLMs for medical diagnosis to improve diagnosis efficiency. Despite their alluring technological potential, there is no unified and comprehensive evaluation criterion, leading to the inability to evaluate the quality and potential risks of medical LLMs, further hindering the application of LLMs in medical treatment scenarios. Besides, current evaluations heavily rely on labor-intensive interactions with LLMs to obtain diagnostic dialogues and human evaluation on the quality of diagnosis dialogue. To tackle the lack of unified and comprehensive evaluation criterion, we first initially establish an evaluation criterion, termed LLM-specific Mini-CEX to assess the diagnostic capabilities of LLMs effectively, based on original Mini-CEX. To address the labor-intensive interaction problem, we develop a patient simulator to engage in automatic conversations with LLMs, and utilize ChatGPT for evaluating diagnosis dialogues automatically. Experimental results show that the LLM-specific Mini-CEX is adequate and necessary to evaluate medical diagnosis dialogue. Besides, ChatGPT can replace manual evaluation on the metrics of humanistic qualities and provides reproducible and automated comparisons between different LLMs. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Prompt Switch: Efficient CLIP Adaptation for Text-Video Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07648  
**Abstract:** In text-video retrieval, recent works have benefited from the powerful learning capabilities of pre-trained text-image foundation models (e.g., CLIP) by adapting them to the video domain. A critical problem for them is how to effectively capture the rich semantics inside the video using the image encoder of CLIP. To tackle this, state-of-the-art methods adopt complex cross-modal modeling techniques to fuse the text information into video frame representations, which, however, incurs severe efficiency issues in large-scale retrieval systems as the video representations must be recomputed online for every text query. In this paper, we discard this problematic cross-modal fusion process and aim to learn semantically-enhanced representations purely from the video, so that the video representations can be computed offline and reused for different texts. Concretely, we first introduce a spatial-temporal "Prompt Cube" into the CLIP image encoder and iteratively switch it within the encoder layers to efficiently incorporate the global video semantics into frame representations. We then propose to apply an auxiliary video captioning objective to train the frame representations, which facilitates the learning of detailed video semantics by providing fine-grained guidance in the semantic space. With a naive temporal fusion strategy (i.e., mean-pooling) on the enhanced frame representations, we obtain state-of-the-art performances on three benchmark datasets, i.e., MSR-VTT, MSVD, and LSMDC. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Geometry of the Visual Cortex with Applications to Image Inpainting and  Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07652  
**Abstract:** Equipping the rototranslation group $SE(2)$ with a sub-Riemannian structure inspired by the visual cortex V1, we propose algorithms for image inpainting and enhancement based on hypoelliptic diffusion. We innovate on previous implementations of the methods by Citti, Sarti and Boscain et al., by proposing an alternative that prevents fading and capable of producing sharper results in a procedure that we call WaxOn-WaxOff. We also exploit the sub-Riemannian structure to define a completely new unsharp using $SE(2)$, analogous of the classical unsharp filter for 2D image processing, with applications to image enhancement. We demonstrate our method on blood vessels enhancement in retinal scans. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Attention Is Not All You Need Anymore  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07661  
**Abstract:** In recent years, the popular Transformer architecture has achieved great success in many application areas, including natural language processing and computer vision. Many existing works aim to reduce the computational and memory complexity of the self-attention mechanism in the Transformer by trading off performance. However, performance is key for the continuing success of the Transformer. In this paper, a drop-in replacement for the self-attention mechanism in the Transformer, called the Extractor, is proposed. Experimental results show that replacing the self-attention mechanism with the Extractor improves the performance of the Transformer. Furthermore, the proposed Extractor has the potential to run faster than the self-attention since it has a much shorter critical path of computation. Additionally, the sequence prediction problem in the context of text generation is formulated using variable-length discrete-time Markov chains, and the Transformer is reviewed based on our understanding. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Inversion-by-Inversion: Exemplar-based Sketch-to-Photo Synthesis via  Stochastic Differential Equations without Training  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07665  
**Abstract:** Exemplar-based sketch-to-photo synthesis allows users to generate photo-realistic images based on sketches. Recently, diffusion-based methods have achieved impressive performance on image generation tasks, enabling highly-flexible control through text-driven generation or energy functions. However, generating photo-realistic images with color and texture from sketch images remains challenging for diffusion models. Sketches typically consist of only a few strokes, with most regions left blank, making it difficult for diffusion-based methods to produce photo-realistic images. In this work, we propose a two-stage method named ``Inversion-by-Inversion" for exemplar-based sketch-to-photo synthesis. This approach includes shape-enhancing inversion and full-control inversion. During the shape-enhancing inversion process, an uncolored photo is generated with the guidance of a shape-energy function. This step is essential to ensure control over the shape of the generated photo. In the full-control inversion process, we propose an appearance-energy function to control the color and texture of the final generated photo.Importantly, our Inversion-by-Inversion pipeline is training-free and can accept different types of exemplars for color and texture control. We conducted extensive experiments to evaluate our proposed method, and the results demonstrate its effectiveness. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Exponentially-fitted finite elements for $H({\rm curl})$ and $H({\rm  div})$ convection-diffusion problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07680  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel approach to the construction of the lowest order $H(\mathrm{curl})$ and $H(\mathrm{div})$ exponentially-fitted finite element spaces ${\mathcal{S}_{1^-}^{k}}~(k=1,2)$ on 3D simplicial mesh for corresponding convection-diffusion problems. It is noteworthy that this method not only facilitates the construction of the functions themselves but also provides corresponding discrete fluxes simultaneously. Utilizing this approach, we successfully establish a discrete convection-diffusion complex and employ a specialized weighted interpolation to establish a bridge between the continuous complex and the discrete complex, resulting in a coherent framework. Furthermore, we demonstrate the commutativity of the framework when the convection field is locally constant, along with the exactness of the discrete convection-diffusion complex. Consequently, these types of spaces can be directly employed to devise the corresponding discrete scheme through a Petrov-Galerkin method. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** DiffGuard: Semantic Mismatch-Guided Out-of-Distribution Detection using  Pre-trained Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07687  
**Abstract:** Given a classifier, the inherent property of semantic Out-of-Distribution (OOD) samples is that their contents differ from all legal classes in terms of semantics, namely semantic mismatch. There is a recent work that directly applies it to OOD detection, which employs a conditional Generative Adversarial Network (cGAN) to enlarge semantic mismatch in the image space. While achieving remarkable OOD detection performance on small datasets, it is not applicable to ImageNet-scale datasets due to the difficulty in training cGANs with both input images and labels as conditions. As diffusion models are much easier to train and amenable to various conditions compared to cGANs, in this work, we propose to directly use pre-trained diffusion models for semantic mismatch-guided OOD detection, named DiffGuard. Specifically, given an OOD input image and the predicted label from the classifier, we try to enlarge the semantic difference between the reconstructed OOD image under these conditions and the original input image. We also present several test-time techniques to further strengthen such differences. Experimental results show that DiffGuard is effective on both Cifar-10 and hard cases of the large-scale ImageNet, and it can be easily combined with existing OOD detection techniques to achieve state-of-the-art OOD detection results. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Better Zero-Shot Reasoning with Role-Play Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07702  
**Abstract:** Modern large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, exhibit a remarkable capacity for role-playing, enabling them to embody not only human characters but also non-human entities like a Linux terminal. This versatility allows them to simulate complex human-like interactions and behaviors within various contexts, as well as to emulate specific objects or systems. While these capabilities have enhanced user engagement and introduced novel modes of interaction, the influence of role-playing on LLMs' reasoning abilities remains underexplored. In this study, we introduce a strategically designed role-play prompting methodology and assess its performance under the zero-shot setting across twelve diverse reasoning benchmarks, encompassing arithmetic, commonsense reasoning, symbolic reasoning, and more. Leveraging models such as ChatGPT and Llama 2, our empirical results illustrate that role-play prompting consistently surpasses the standard zero-shot approach across most datasets. Notably, accuracy on AQuA rises from 53.5% to 63.8%, and on Last Letter from 23.8% to 84.2%. Beyond enhancing contextual understanding, we posit that role-play prompting serves as an implicit Chain-of-Thought (CoT) trigger, thereby improving the quality of reasoning. By comparing our approach with the Zero-Shot-CoT technique, which prompts the model to "think step by step", we further demonstrate that role-play prompting can generate a more effective CoT. This highlights its potential to augment the reasoning capabilities of LLMs. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Fast Machine Unlearning Without Retraining Through Selective Synaptic  Dampening  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07707  
**Abstract:** Machine unlearning, the ability for a machine learning model to forget, is becoming increasingly important to comply with data privacy regulations, as well as to remove harmful, manipulated, or outdated information. The key challenge lies in forgetting specific information while protecting model performance on the remaining data. While current state-of-the-art methods perform well, they typically require some level of retraining over the retained data, in order to protect or restore model performance. This adds computational overhead and mandates that the training data remain available and accessible, which may not be feasible. In contrast, other methods employ a retrain-free paradigm, however, these approaches are prohibitively computationally expensive and do not perform on par with their retrain-based counterparts. We present Selective Synaptic Dampening (SSD), a novel two-step, post hoc, retrain-free approach to machine unlearning which is fast, performant, and does not require long-term storage of the training data. First, SSD uses the Fisher information matrix of the training and forgetting data to select parameters that are disproportionately important to the forget set. Second, SSD induces forgetting by dampening these parameters proportional to their relative importance to the forget set with respect to the wider training data. We evaluate our method against several existing unlearning methods in a range of experiments using ResNet18 and Vision Transformer. Results show that the performance of SSD is competitive with retrain-based post hoc methods, demonstrating the viability of retrain-free post hoc unlearning approaches. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** SPM: Structured Pretraining and Matching Architectures for Relevance  Modeling in Meituan Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07711  
**Abstract:** In e-commerce search, relevance between query and documents is an essential requirement for satisfying user experience. Different from traditional e-commerce platforms that offer products, users search on life service platforms such as Meituan mainly for product providers, which usually have abundant structured information, e.g. name, address, category, thousands of products. Modeling search relevance with these rich structured contents is challenging due to the following issues: (1) there is language distribution discrepancy among different fields of structured document, making it difficult to directly adopt off-the-shelf pretrained language model based methods like BERT. (2) different fields usually have different importance and their length vary greatly, making it difficult to extract document information helpful for relevance matching. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** UniTR: A Unified and Efficient Multi-Modal Transformer for  Bird's-Eye-View Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07732  
**Abstract:** Jointly processing information from multiple sensors is crucial to achieving accurate and robust perception for reliable autonomous driving systems. However, current 3D perception research follows a modality-specific paradigm, leading to additional computation overheads and inefficient collaboration between different sensor data. In this paper, we present an efficient multi-modal backbone for outdoor 3D perception named UniTR, which processes a variety of modalities with unified modeling and shared parameters. Unlike previous works, UniTR introduces a modality-agnostic transformer encoder to handle these view-discrepant sensor data for parallel modal-wise representation learning and automatic cross-modal interaction without additional fusion steps. More importantly, to make full use of these complementary sensor types, we present a novel multi-modal integration strategy by both considering semantic-abundant 2D perspective and geometry-aware 3D sparse neighborhood relations. UniTR is also a fundamentally task-agnostic backbone that naturally supports different 3D perception tasks. It sets a new state-of-the-art performance on the nuScenes benchmark, achieving +1.1 NDS higher for 3D object detection and +12.0 higher mIoU for BEV map segmentation with lower inference latency. Code will be available at https://github.com/Haiyang-W/UniTR . 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** ChartDETR: A Multi-shape Detection Network for Visual Chart Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07743  
**Abstract:** Visual chart recognition systems are gaining increasing attention due to the growing demand for automatically identifying table headers and values from chart images. Current methods rely on keypoint detection to estimate data element shapes in charts but suffer from grouping errors in post-processing. To address this issue, we propose ChartDETR, a transformer-based multi-shape detector that localizes keypoints at the corners of regular shapes to reconstruct multiple data elements in a single chart image. Our method predicts all data element shapes at once by introducing query groups in set prediction, eliminating the need for further postprocessing. This property allows ChartDETR to serve as a unified framework capable of representing various chart types without altering the network architecture, effectively detecting data elements of diverse shapes. We evaluated ChartDETR on three datasets, achieving competitive results across all chart types without any additional enhancements. For example, ChartDETR achieved an F1 score of 0.98 on Adobe Synthetic, significantly outperforming the previous best model with a 0.71 F1 score. Additionally, we obtained a new state-of-the-art result of 0.97 on ExcelChart400k. The code will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Dancing Avatar: Pose and Text-Guided Human Motion Videos Synthesis with  Image Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07749  
**Abstract:** The rising demand for creating lifelike avatars in the digital realm has led to an increased need for generating high-quality human videos guided by textual descriptions and poses. We propose Dancing Avatar, designed to fabricate human motion videos driven by poses and textual cues. Our approach employs a pretrained T2I diffusion model to generate each video frame in an autoregressive fashion. The crux of innovation lies in our adept utilization of the T2I diffusion model for producing video frames successively while preserving contextual relevance. We surmount the hurdles posed by maintaining human character and clothing consistency across varying poses, along with upholding the background's continuity amidst diverse human movements. To ensure consistent human appearances across the entire video, we devise an intra-frame alignment module. This module assimilates text-guided synthesized human character knowledge into the pretrained T2I diffusion model, synergizing insights from ChatGPT. For preserving background continuity, we put forth a background alignment pipeline, amalgamating insights from segment anything and image inpainting techniques. Furthermore, we propose an inter-frame alignment module that draws inspiration from an auto-regressive pipeline to augment temporal consistency between adjacent frames, where the preceding frame guides the synthesis process of the current frame. Comparisons with state-of-the-art methods demonstrate that Dancing Avatar exhibits the capacity to generate human videos with markedly superior quality, both in terms of human and background fidelity, as well as temporal coherence compared to existing state-of-the-art approaches. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Dual-path TokenLearner for Remote Photoplethysmography-based  Physiological Measurement with Facial Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07771  
**Abstract:** Remote photoplethysmography (rPPG) based physiological measurement is an emerging yet crucial vision task, whose challenge lies in exploring accurate rPPG prediction from facial videos accompanied by noises of illumination variations, facial occlusions, head movements, \etc, in a non-contact manner. Existing mainstream CNN-based models make efforts to detect physiological signals by capturing subtle color changes in facial regions of interest (ROI) caused by heartbeats. However, such models are constrained by the limited local spatial or temporal receptive fields in the neural units. Unlike them, a native Transformer-based framework called Dual-path TokenLearner (Dual-TL) is proposed in this paper, which utilizes the concept of learnable tokens to integrate both spatial and temporal informative contexts from the global perspective of the video. Specifically, the proposed Dual-TL uses a Spatial TokenLearner (S-TL) to explore associations in different facial ROIs, which promises the rPPG prediction far away from noisy ROI disturbances. Complementarily, a Temporal TokenLearner (T-TL) is designed to infer the quasi-periodic pattern of heartbeats, which eliminates temporal disturbances such as head movements. The two TokenLearners, S-TL and T-TL, are executed in a dual-path mode. This enables the model to reduce noise disturbances for final rPPG signal prediction. Extensive experiments on four physiological measurement benchmark datasets are conducted. The Dual-TL achieves state-of-the-art performances in both intra- and cross-dataset testings, demonstrating its immense potential as a basic backbone for rPPG measurement. The source code is available at \href{https://github.com/VUT-HFUT/Dual-TL}{https://github.com/VUT-HFUT/Dual-TL} 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Learning Image Deraining Transformer Network with Dynamic Dual  Self-Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07781  
**Abstract:** Recently, Transformer-based architecture has been introduced into single image deraining task due to its advantage in modeling non-local information. However, existing approaches tend to integrate global features based on a dense self-attention strategy since it tend to uses all similarities of the tokens between the queries and keys. In fact, this strategy leads to ignoring the most relevant information and inducing blurry effect by the irrelevant representations during the feature aggregation. To this end, this paper proposes an effective image deraining Transformer with dynamic dual self-attention (DDSA), which combines both dense and sparse attention strategies to better facilitate clear image reconstruction. Specifically, we only select the most useful similarity values based on top-k approximate calculation to achieve sparse attention. In addition, we also develop a novel spatial-enhanced feed-forward network (SEFN) to further obtain a more accurate representation for achieving high-quality derained results. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** DiffV2S: Diffusion-based Video-to-Speech Synthesis with Vision-guided  Speaker Embedding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07787  
**Abstract:** Recent research has demonstrated impressive results in video-to-speech synthesis which involves reconstructing speech solely from visual input. However, previous works have struggled to accurately synthesize speech due to a lack of sufficient guidance for the model to infer the correct content with the appropriate sound. To resolve the issue, they have adopted an extra speaker embedding as a speaking style guidance from a reference auditory information. Nevertheless, it is not always possible to obtain the audio information from the corresponding video input, especially during the inference time. In this paper, we present a novel vision-guided speaker embedding extractor using a self-supervised pre-trained model and prompt tuning technique. In doing so, the rich speaker embedding information can be produced solely from input visual information, and the extra audio information is not necessary during the inference time. Using the extracted vision-guided speaker embedding representations, we further develop a diffusion-based video-to-speech synthesis model, so called DiffV2S, conditioned on those speaker embeddings and the visual representation extracted from the input video. The proposed DiffV2S not only maintains phoneme details contained in the input video frames, but also creates a highly intelligible mel-spectrogram in which the speaker identities of the multiple speakers are all preserved. Our experimental results show that DiffV2S achieves the state-of-the-art performance compared to the previous video-to-speech synthesis technique. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Informed Named Entity Recognition Decoding for Generative Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07791  
**Abstract:** Ever-larger language models with ever-increasing capabilities are by now well-established text processing tools. Alas, information extraction tasks such as named entity recognition are still largely unaffected by this progress as they are primarily based on the previous generation of encoder-only transformer models. Here, we propose a simple yet effective approach, Informed Named Entity Recognition Decoding (iNERD), which treats named entity recognition as a generative process. It leverages the language understanding capabilities of recent generative models in a future-proof manner and employs an informed decoding scheme incorporating the restricted nature of information extraction into open-ended text generation, improving performance and eliminating any risk of hallucinations. We coarse-tune our model on a merged named entity corpus to strengthen its performance, evaluate five generative language models on eight named entity recognition datasets, and achieve remarkable results, especially in an environment with an unknown entity class set, demonstrating the adaptability of the approach. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** CCD-3DR: Consistent Conditioning in Diffusion for Single-Image 3D  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07837  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present a novel shape reconstruction method leveraging diffusion model to generate 3D sparse point cloud for the object captured in a single RGB image. Recent methods typically leverage global embedding or local projection-based features as the condition to guide the diffusion model. However, such strategies fail to consistently align the denoised point cloud with the given image, leading to unstable conditioning and inferior performance. In this paper, we present CCD-3DR, which exploits a novel centered diffusion probabilistic model for consistent local feature conditioning. We constrain the noise and sampled point cloud from the diffusion model into a subspace where the point cloud center remains unchanged during the forward diffusion process and reverse process. The stable point cloud center further serves as an anchor to align each point with its corresponding local projection-based features. Extensive experiments on synthetic benchmark ShapeNet-R2N2 demonstrate that CCD-3DR outperforms all competitors by a large margin, with over 40% improvement. We also provide results on real-world dataset Pix3D to thoroughly demonstrate the potential of CCD-3DR in real-world applications. Codes will be released soon 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Robustness Over Time: Understanding Adversarial Examples' Effectiveness  on Longitudinal Versions of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07847  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have led to significant improvements in many tasks across various domains, such as code interpretation, response generation, and ambiguity handling. These LLMs, however, when upgrading, primarily prioritize enhancing user experience while neglecting security, privacy, and safety implications. Consequently, unintended vulnerabilities or biases can be introduced. Previous studies have predominantly focused on specific versions of the models and disregard the potential emergence of new attack vectors targeting the updated versions. Through the lens of adversarial examples within the in-context learning framework, this longitudinal study addresses this gap by conducting a comprehensive assessment of the robustness of successive versions of LLMs, vis-\`a-vis GPT-3.5. We conduct extensive experiments to analyze and understand the impact of the robustness in two distinct learning categories: zero-shot learning and few-shot learning. Our findings indicate that, in comparison to earlier versions of LLMs, the updated versions do not exhibit the anticipated level of robustness against adversarial attacks. In addition, our study emphasizes the increased effectiveness of synergized adversarial queries in most zero-shot learning and few-shot learning cases. We hope that our study can lead to a more refined assessment of the robustness of LLMs over time and provide valuable insights of these models for both developers and users. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** StyleDiffusion: Controllable Disentangled Style Transfer via Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07863  
**Abstract:** Content and style (C-S) disentanglement is a fundamental problem and critical challenge of style transfer. Existing approaches based on explicit definitions (e.g., Gram matrix) or implicit learning (e.g., GANs) are neither interpretable nor easy to control, resulting in entangled representations and less satisfying results. In this paper, we propose a new C-S disentangled framework for style transfer without using previous assumptions. The key insight is to explicitly extract the content information and implicitly learn the complementary style information, yielding interpretable and controllable C-S disentanglement and style transfer. A simple yet effective CLIP-based style disentanglement loss coordinated with a style reconstruction prior is introduced to disentangle C-S in the CLIP image space. By further leveraging the powerful style removal and generative ability of diffusion models, our framework achieves superior results than state of the art and flexible C-S disentanglement and trade-off control. Our work provides new insights into the C-S disentanglement in style transfer and demonstrates the potential of diffusion models for learning well-disentangled C-S characteristics. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** SEDA: Self-Ensembling ViT with Defensive Distillation and Adversarial  Training for robust Chest X-rays Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07874  
**Abstract:** Deep Learning methods have recently seen increased adoption in medical imaging applications. However, elevated vulnerabilities have been explored in recent Deep Learning solutions, which can hinder future adoption. Particularly, the vulnerability of Vision Transformer (ViT) to adversarial, privacy, and confidentiality attacks raise serious concerns about their reliability in medical settings. This work aims to enhance the robustness of self-ensembling ViTs for the tuberculosis chest x-ray classification task. We propose Self-Ensembling ViT with defensive Distillation and Adversarial training (SEDA). SEDA utilizes efficient CNN blocks to learn spatial features with various levels of abstraction from feature representations extracted from intermediate ViT blocks, that are largely unaffected by adversarial perturbations. Furthermore, SEDA leverages adversarial training in combination with defensive distillation for improved robustness against adversaries. Training using adversarial examples leads to better model generalizability and improves its ability to handle perturbations. Distillation using soft probabilities introduces uncertainty and variation into the output probabilities, making it more difficult for adversarial and privacy attacks. Extensive experiments performed with the proposed architecture and training paradigm on publicly available Tuberculosis x-ray dataset shows SOTA efficacy of SEDA compared to SEViT in terms of computational efficiency with 70x times lighter framework and enhanced robustness of +9%. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Synthesizing Political Zero-Shot Relation Classification via Codebook  Knowledge, NLI, and ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07876  
**Abstract:** Recent supervised models for event coding vastly outperform pattern-matching methods. However, their reliance solely on new annotations disregards the vast knowledge within expert databases, hindering their applicability to fine-grained classification. To address these limitations, we explore zero-shot approaches for political event ontology relation classification, by leveraging knowledge from established annotation codebooks. Our study encompasses both ChatGPT and a novel natural language inference (NLI) based approach named ZSP. ZSP adopts a tree-query framework that deconstructs the task into context, modality, and class disambiguation levels. This framework improves interpretability, efficiency, and adaptability to schema changes. By conducting extensive experiments on our newly curated datasets, we pinpoint the instability issues within ChatGPT and highlight the superior performance of ZSP. ZSP achieves an impressive 40% improvement in F1 score for fine-grained Rootcode classification. ZSP demonstrates competitive performance compared to supervised BERT models, positioning it as a valuable tool for event record validation and ontology development. Our work underscores the potential of leveraging transfer learning and existing expertise to enhance the efficiency and scalability of research in the field. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Memory-and-Anticipation Transformer for Online Action Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07893  
**Abstract:** Most existing forecasting systems are memory-based methods, which attempt to mimic human forecasting ability by employing various memory mechanisms and have progressed in temporal modeling for memory dependency. Nevertheless, an obvious weakness of this paradigm is that it can only model limited historical dependence and can not transcend the past. In this paper, we rethink the temporal dependence of event evolution and propose a novel memory-anticipation-based paradigm to model an entire temporal structure, including the past, present, and future. Based on this idea, we present Memory-and-Anticipation Transformer (MAT), a memory-anticipation-based approach, to address the online action detection and anticipation tasks. In addition, owing to the inherent superiority of MAT, it can process online action detection and anticipation tasks in a unified manner. The proposed MAT model is tested on four challenging benchmarks TVSeries, THUMOS'14, HDD, and EPIC-Kitchens-100, for online action detection and anticipation tasks, and it significantly outperforms all existing methods. Code is available at https://github.com/Echo0125/Memory-and-Anticipation-Transformer. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Solving Challenging Math Word Problems Using GPT-4 Code Interpreter with  Code-based Self-Verification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07921  
**Abstract:** Recent progress in large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 and PaLM-2 has brought significant advancements in addressing math reasoning problems. In particular, OpenAI's latest version of GPT-4, known as GPT-4 Code Interpreter, shows remarkable performance on challenging math datasets. In this paper, we explore the effect of code on enhancing LLMs' reasoning capability by introducing different constraints on the \textit{Code Usage Frequency} of GPT-4 Code Interpreter. We found that its success can be largely attributed to its powerful skills in generating and executing code, evaluating the output of code execution, and rectifying its solution when receiving unreasonable outputs. Based on this insight, we propose a novel and effective prompting method, explicit \uline{c}ode-based \uline{s}elf-\uline{v}erification~(CSV), to further boost the mathematical reasoning potential of GPT-4 Code Interpreter. This method employs a zero-shot prompt on GPT-4 Code Interpreter to encourage it to use code to self-verify its answers. In instances where the verification state registers as ``False'', the model shall automatically amend its solution, analogous to our approach of rectifying errors during a mathematics examination. Furthermore, we recognize that the states of the verification result indicate the confidence of a solution, which can improve the effectiveness of majority voting. With GPT-4 Code Interpreter and CSV, we achieve an impressive zero-shot accuracy on MATH dataset \textbf{(53.9\% $\to$ 84.3\%)}. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Synthetic CT Generation from MRI Using Improved DualGAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.08942  
**Abstract:** Synthetic CT image generation from MRI scan is necessary to create radiotherapy plans without the need of co-registered MRI and CT scans. The chosen baseline adversarial model with cycle consistency permits unpaired image-to-image translation. Perceptual loss function term and coordinate convolutional layer were added to improve the quality of translated images. The proposed architecture was tested on paired MRI-CT dataset, where the synthetic CTs were compared to corresponding original CT images. The MAE between the synthetic CT images and the real CT scans is 61 HU computed inside of the true CTs body shape. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Synthetic data generation method for hybrid image-tabular data using two  generative adversarial networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07573  
**Abstract:** The generation of synthetic medical records using generative adversarial networks (GANs) has become increasingly important for addressing privacy concerns and promoting data sharing in the medical field. In this paper, we propose a novel method for generating synthetic hybrid medical records consisting of chest X-ray images (CXRs) and structured tabular data (including anthropometric data and laboratory tests) using an auto-encoding GAN ({\alpha}GAN) and a conditional tabular GAN (CTGAN). Our approach involves training a {\alpha}GAN model on a large public database (pDB) to reduce the dimensionality of CXRs. We then applied the trained encoder of the GAN model to the images in original database (oDB) to obtain the latent vectors. These latent vectors were combined with tabular data in oDB, and these joint data were used to train the CTGAN model. We successfully generated diverse synthetic records of hybrid CXR and tabular data, maintaining correspondence between them. We evaluated this synthetic database (sDB) through visual assessment, distribution of interrecord distances, and classification tasks. Our evaluation results showed that the sDB captured the features of the oDB while maintaining the correspondence between the images and tabular data. Although our approach relies on the availability of a large-scale pDB containing a substantial number of images with the same modality and imaging region as those in the oDB, this method has the potential for the public release of synthetic datasets without compromising the secondary use of data. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Enhancing Network Initialization for Medical AI Models Using  Large-Scale, Unlabeled Natural Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07688  
**Abstract:** Pre-training datasets, like ImageNet, have become the gold standard in medical image analysis. However, the emergence of self-supervised learning (SSL), which leverages unlabeled data to learn robust features, presents an opportunity to bypass the intensive labeling process. In this study, we explored if SSL for pre-training on non-medical images can be applied to chest radiographs and how it compares to supervised pre-training on non-medical images and on medical images. We utilized a vision transformer and initialized its weights based on (i) SSL pre-training on natural images (DINOv2), (ii) SL pre-training on natural images (ImageNet dataset), and (iii) SL pre-training on chest radiographs from the MIMIC-CXR database. We tested our approach on over 800,000 chest radiographs from six large global datasets, diagnosing more than 20 different imaging findings. Our SSL pre-training on curated images not only outperformed ImageNet-based pre-training (P<0.001 for all datasets) but, in certain cases, also exceeded SL on the MIMIC-CXR dataset. Our findings suggest that selecting the right pre-training strategy, especially with SSL, can be pivotal for improving artificial intelligence (AI)'s diagnostic accuracy in medical imaging. By demonstrating the promise of SSL in chest radiograph analysis, we underline a transformative shift towards more efficient and accurate AI models in medical imaging. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** SciRE-Solver: Efficient Sampling of Diffusion Probabilistic Models by  Score-integrand Solver with Recursive Derivative Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.07896  
**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) are a powerful class of generative models known for their ability to generate high-fidelity image samples. A major challenge in the implementation of DPMs is the slow sampling process. In this work, we bring a high-efficiency sampler for DPMs. Specifically, we propose a score-based exact solution paradigm for the diffusion ODEs corresponding to the sampling process of DPMs, which introduces a new perspective on developing numerical algorithms for solving diffusion ODEs. To achieve an efficient sampler, we propose a recursive derivative estimation (RDE) method to reduce the estimation error. With our proposed solution paradigm and RDE method, we propose the score-integrand solver with the convergence order guarantee as efficient solver (SciRE-Solver) for solving diffusion ODEs. The SciRE-Solver attains state-of-the-art (SOTA) sampling performance with a limited number of score function evaluations (NFE) on both discrete-time and continuous-time DPMs in comparison to existing training-free sampling algorithms. Such as, we achieve $3.48$ FID with $12$ NFE and $2.42$ FID with $20$ NFE for continuous-time DPMs on CIFAR10, respectively. Different from other samplers, SciRE-Solver has the promising potential to surpass the FIDs achieved in the original papers of some pre-trained models with just fewer NFEs. For example, we reach SOTA value of $2.40$ FID with $100$ NFE for continuous-time DPM and of $3.15$ FID with $84$ NFE for discrete-time DPM on CIFAR-10, as well as of $2.17$ ($2.02$) FID with $18$ ($50$) NFE for discrete-time DPM on CelebA 64$\times$64. 

