**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Monaural Multi-Speaker Speech Separation Using Efficient Transformer  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00010  
**Abstract:** Cocktail party problem is the scenario where it is difficult to separate or distinguish individual speaker from a mixed speech from several speakers. There have been several researches going on in this field but the size and complexity of the model is being traded off with the accuracy and robustness of speech separation. "Monaural multi-speaker speech separation" presents a speech-separation model based on the Transformer architecture and its efficient forms. The model has been trained with the LibriMix dataset containing diverse speakers' utterances. The model separates 2 distinct speaker sources from a mixed audio input. The developed model approaches the reduction in computational complexity of the speech separation model, with minimum tradeoff with the performance of prevalent speech separation model and it has shown significant movement towards that goal. This project foresees, a rise in contribution towards the ongoing research in the field of speech separation with computational efficiency at its core. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** How User Language Affects Conflict Fatality Estimates in ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00072  
**Abstract:** OpenAI's ChatGPT language model has gained popularity as a powerful tool for complex problem-solving and information retrieval. However, concerns arise about the reproduction of biases present in the language-specific training data. In this study, we address this issue in the context of the Israeli-Palestinian and Turkish-Kurdish conflicts. Using GPT-3.5, we employed an automated query procedure to inquire about casualties in specific airstrikes, in both Hebrew and Arabic for the former conflict and Turkish and Kurdish for the latter. Our analysis reveals that GPT-3.5 provides 27$\pm$11 percent lower fatality estimates when queried in the language of the attacker than in the language of the targeted group. Evasive answers denying the existence of such attacks further increase the discrepancy, creating a novel bias mechanism not present in regular search engines. This language bias has the potential to amplify existing media biases and contribute to information bubbles, ultimately reinforcing conflicts. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Reasoning before Responding: Integrating Commonsense-based Causality  Explanation for Empathetic Response Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00085  
**Abstract:** Recent approaches to empathetic response generation try to incorporate commonsense knowledge or reasoning about the causes of emotions to better understand the user's experiences and feelings. However, these approaches mainly focus on understanding the causalities of context from the user's perspective, ignoring the system's perspective. In this paper, we propose a commonsense-based causality explanation approach for diverse empathetic response generation that considers both the user's perspective (user's desires and reactions) and the system's perspective (system's intentions and reactions). We enhance ChatGPT's ability to reason for the system's perspective by integrating in-context learning with commonsense knowledge. Then, we integrate the commonsense-based causality explanation with both ChatGPT and a T5-based model. Experimental evaluations demonstrate that our method outperforms other comparable methods on both automatic and human evaluations. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Validation of a Zero-Shot Learning Natural Language Processing Tool for  Data Abstraction from Unstructured Healthcare Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00107  
**Abstract:** Objectives: To describe the development and validation of a zero-shot learning natural language processing (NLP) tool for abstracting data from unstructured text contained within PDF documents, such as those found within electronic health records. Materials and Methods: A data abstraction tool based on the GPT-3.5 model from OpenAI was developed and compared to three physician human abstractors in terms of time to task completion and accuracy for abstracting data on 14 unique variables from a set of 199 de-identified radical prostatectomy pathology reports. The reports were processed by the software tool in vectorized and scanned formats to establish the impact of optical character recognition on data abstraction. The tool was assessed for superiority for data abstraction speed and non-inferiority for accuracy. Results: The human abstractors required a mean of 101s per report for data abstraction, with times varying from 15 to 284 s. In comparison, the software tool required a mean of 12.8 s to process the vectorized reports and a mean of 15.8 to process the scanned reports (P < 0.001). The overall accuracies of the three human abstractors were 94.7%, 97.8%, and 96.4% for the combined set of 2786 datapoints. The software tool had an overall accuracy of 94.2% for the vectorized reports, proving to be non-inferior to the human abstractors at a margin of -10% ($\alpha$=0.025). The tool had a slightly lower accuracy of 88.7% using the scanned reports, proving to be non-inferiority to 2 out of 3 human abstractors. Conclusion: The developed zero-shot learning NLP tool affords researchers comparable levels of accuracy to that of human abstractors, with significant time savings benefits. Because of the lack of need for task-specific model training, the developed tool is highly generalizable and can be used for a wide variety of data abstraction tasks, even outside the field of medicine. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** DPBERT: Efficient Inference for BERT based on Dynamic Planning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00108  
**Abstract:** Large-scale pre-trained language models such as BERT have contributed significantly to the development of NLP. However, those models require large computational resources, making it difficult to be applied to mobile devices where computing power is limited. In this paper we aim to address the weakness of existing input-adaptive inference methods which fail to take full advantage of the structure of BERT. We propose Dynamic Planning in BERT, a novel fine-tuning strategy that can accelerate the inference process of BERT through selecting a subsequence of transformer layers list of backbone as a computational path for an input sample. To do this, our approach adds a planning module to the original BERT model to determine whether a layer is included or bypassed during inference. Experimental results on the GLUE benchmark exhibit that our method reduces latency to 75\% while maintaining 98\% accuracy, yielding a better accuracy-speed trade-off compared to state-of-the-art input-adaptive methods. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Getting pwn'd by AI: Penetration Testing with Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00121  
**Abstract:** The field of software security testing, more specifically penetration testing, is an activity that requires high levels of expertise and involves many manual testing and analysis steps. This paper explores the potential usage of large-language models, such as GPT3.5, to augment penetration testers with AI sparring partners. We explore the feasibility of supplementing penetration testers with AI models for two distinct use cases: high-level task planning for security testing assignments and low-level vulnerability hunting within a vulnerable virtual machine. For the latter, we implemented a closed-feedback loop between LLM-generated low-level actions with a vulnerable virtual machine (connected through SSH) and allowed the LLM to analyze the machine state for vulnerabilities and suggest concrete attack vectors which were automatically executed within the virtual machine. We discuss promising initial results, detail avenues for improvement, and close deliberating on the ethics of providing AI-based sparring partners. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** DAVIS: High-Quality Audio-Visual Separation with Generative Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00122  
**Abstract:** We propose DAVIS, a Diffusion model-based Audio-VIusal Separation framework that solves the audio-visual sound source separation task through a generative manner. While existing discriminative methods that perform mask regression have made remarkable progress in this field, they face limitations in capturing the complex data distribution required for high-quality separation of sounds from diverse categories. In contrast, DAVIS leverages a generative diffusion model and a Separation U-Net to synthesize separated magnitudes starting from Gaussian noises, conditioned on both the audio mixture and the visual footage. With its generative objective, DAVIS is better suited to achieving the goal of high-quality sound separation across diverse categories. We compare DAVIS to existing state-of-the-art discriminative audio-visual separation methods on the domain-specific MUSIC dataset and the open-domain AVE dataset, and results show that DAVIS outperforms other methods in separation quality, demonstrating the advantages of our framework for tackling the audio-visual source separation task. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Multilevel well modeling in aggregation-based nonlinear multigrid for  multiphase flow in porous media  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00125  
**Abstract:** A full approximation scheme (FAS) nonlinear multigrid solver for two-phase flow and transport problems driven by wells with multiple perforations is developed. It is an extension to our previous work on FAS solvers for diffusion and transport problems. The solver is applicable to discrete problems defined on unstructured grids as the coarsening algorithm is aggregation-based and algebraic. To construct coarse basis that can better capture the radial flow near wells, coarse grids in which perforated well cells are not near the coarse-element interface are desired. This is achieved by an aggregation algorithm proposed in this paper that makes use of the location of well cells in the cell-connectivity graph. Numerical examples in which the FAS solver is compared against Newton's method on benchmark problems are given. In particular, for a refined version of the SAIGUP model, the FAS solver is at least 35% faster than Newton's method for time steps with a CFL number greater than 10. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** InFusion: Inject and Attention Fusion for Multi Concept Zero Shot Text  based Video Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00135  
**Abstract:** Large text-to-image diffusion models have achieved remarkable success in generating diverse high-quality images that are closely aligned with text prompt. But, when these models applied to video the main challenge is to ensure temporal consistency and coherent editing. In this paper, we proposed InFusion, a framework for zero-shot text-based video editing leveraging large pre-trained image diffusion models. Our framework specifically supports editing of multiple concepts with the pixel level control over diverse concepts mentioned in the editing prompt. Specifically, we inject the difference of features from U-Net residual blocks in decoder layers for source and edit prompt, this when combined with injected attention features make it feasible to query the source contents and scale the edited concepts along with injection of unedited parts. The editing is further controlled in fine-grained manner with mask extraction and attention fusion strategy which cuts the edited part from source and paste it from the denoising pipeline for target prompt. Our framework is a low cost alternative for the one-shot tuned models for editing since it does not require training. We demonstrated the complex concept editing with generalised image model (Stable Diffusion v1.5) using LoRA. Adaptation is compatible with all the existing image diffusion techniques. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness over existing methods in rendering high-quality and temporally consistent videos. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** DiffusAL: Coupling Active Learning with Graph Diffusion for  Label-Efficient Node Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00146  
**Abstract:** Node classification is one of the core tasks on attributed graphs, but successful graph learning solutions require sufficiently labeled data. To keep annotation costs low, active graph learning focuses on selecting the most qualitative subset of nodes that maximizes label efficiency. However, deciding which heuristic is best suited for an unlabeled graph to increase label efficiency is a persistent challenge. Existing solutions either neglect aligning the learned model and the sampling method or focus only on limited selection aspects. They are thus sometimes worse or only equally good as random sampling. In this work, we introduce a novel active graph learning approach called DiffusAL, showing significant robustness in diverse settings. Toward better transferability between different graph structures, we combine three independent scoring functions to identify the most informative node samples for labeling in a parameter-free way: i) Model Uncertainty, ii) Diversity Component, and iii) Node Importance computed via graph diffusion heuristics. Most of our calculations for acquisition and training can be pre-processed, making DiffusAL more efficient compared to approaches combining diverse selection criteria and similarly fast as simpler heuristics. Our experiments on various benchmark datasets show that, unlike previous methods, our approach significantly outperforms random selection in 100% of all datasets and labeling budgets tested. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Predicting Perfect Quality Segments in MT Output with Fine-Tuned OpenAI  LLM: Is it possible to capture editing distance patterns from historical  data?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00158  
**Abstract:** Translation Quality Estimation (TQE) is an important step before deploying the output translation into usage. TQE is also critical in assessing machine translation (MT) and human translation (HT) quality without seeing the reference translations. In this work, we examine if the state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) can be fine-tuned for the TQE task and their capability. We take ChatGPT as one example and approach TQE as a binary classification task. Using English-Italian and English-German training corpus, our experimental results show that fine-tuned ChatGPT via its API can achieve a relatively high score on predicting translation quality, i.e. if the translation needs to be edited, but there is definitely space to improve the accuracy. English-Italiano bilingual Abstract is available in the paper. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Performance Evaluation of Swin Vision Transformer Model using Gradient  Accumulation Optimization Technique  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00197  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformers (ViTs) have emerged as a promising approach for visual recognition tasks, revolutionizing the field by leveraging the power of transformer-based architectures. Among the various ViT models, Swin Transformers have gained considerable attention due to their hierarchical design and ability to capture both local and global visual features effectively. This paper evaluates the performance of Swin ViT model using gradient accumulation optimization (GAO) technique. We investigate the impact of gradient accumulation optimization technique on the model's accuracy and training time. Our experiments show that applying the GAO technique leads to a significant decrease in the accuracy of the Swin ViT model, compared to the standard Swin Transformer model. Moreover, we detect a significant increase in the training time of the Swin ViT model when GAO model is applied. These findings suggest that applying the GAO technique may not be suitable for the Swin ViT model, and concern should be undertaken when using GAO technique for other transformer-based models. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Instructed to Bias: Instruction-Tuned Language Models Exhibit Emergent  Cognitive Bias  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00225  
**Abstract:** Recent studies show that instruction tuning and learning from human feedback improve the abilities of large language models (LMs) dramatically. While these tuning methods can make models generate high-quality text, we conjecture that more implicit cognitive biases may arise in these fine-tuned models. Our work provides evidence that these fine-tuned models exhibit biases that were absent or less pronounced in their pretrained predecessors. We examine the extent of this phenomenon in three cognitive biases - the decoy effect, the certainty effect, and the belief bias - all of which are known to influence human decision-making and reasoning. Our findings highlight the presence of these biases in various models, especially those that have undergone instruction tuning, such as Flan-T5, GPT3.5, and GPT4. This research constitutes a step toward comprehending cognitive biases in instruction-tuned LMs, which is crucial for the development of more reliable and unbiased language models. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Experiments on Generative AI-Powered Parametric Modeling and BIM for  Architectural Design  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00227  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a new architectural design framework that utilizes generative AI tools including ChatGPT and Veras with parametric modeling and Building Information Modeling (BIM) to enhance the design process. The study experiments with the potential of ChatGPT and generative AI in 3D architectural design, extending beyond its use in text and 2D image generation. The proposed framework promotes collaboration between architects and AI, facilitating a quick exploration of design ideas and producing context-sensitive, creative design generation. By integrating ChatGPT for scripting and Veras for generating design ideas with widely used parametric modeling and BIM tools, the framework provides architects with an intuitive and powerful method to convey design intent, leading to more efficient, creative, and collaborative design processes. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Partitioned Saliency Ranking with Dense Pyramid Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00236  
**Abstract:** In recent years, saliency ranking has emerged as a challenging task focusing on assessing the degree of saliency at instance-level. Being subjective, even humans struggle to identify the precise order of all salient instances. Previous approaches undertake the saliency ranking by directly sorting the rank scores of salient instances, which have not explicitly resolved the inherent ambiguities. To overcome this limitation, we propose the ranking by partition paradigm, which segments unordered salient instances into partitions and then ranks them based on the correlations among these partitions. The ranking by partition paradigm alleviates ranking ambiguities in a general sense, as it consistently improves the performance of other saliency ranking models. Additionally, we introduce the Dense Pyramid Transformer (DPT) to enable global cross-scale interactions, which significantly enhances feature interactions with reduced computational burden. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach outperforms all existing methods. The code for our method is available at \url{https://github.com/ssecv/PSR}. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Towards Effective Ancient Chinese Translation: Dataset, Model, and  Evaluation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00240  
**Abstract:** Interpreting ancient Chinese has been the key to comprehending vast Chinese literature, tradition, and civilization. In this paper, we propose Erya for ancient Chinese translation. From a dataset perspective, we collect, clean, and classify ancient Chinese materials from various sources, forming the most extensive ancient Chinese resource to date. From a model perspective, we devise Erya training method oriented towards ancient Chinese. We design two jointly-working tasks: disyllabic aligned substitution (DAS) and dual masked language model (DMLM). From an evaluation perspective, we build a benchmark to judge ancient Chinese translation quality in different scenarios and evaluate the ancient Chinese translation capacities of various existing models. Our model exhibits remarkable zero-shot performance across five domains, with over +12.0 BLEU against GPT-3.5 models and better human evaluation results than ERNIE Bot. Subsequent fine-tuning further shows the superior transfer capability of Erya model with +6.2 BLEU gain. We release all the above-mentioned resources at https://github.com/RUCAIBox/Erya. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** EEG-based Cognitive Load Classification using Feature Masked  Autoencoding and Emotion Transfer Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00246  
**Abstract:** Cognitive load, the amount of mental effort required for task completion, plays an important role in performance and decision-making outcomes, making its classification and analysis essential in various sensitive domains. In this paper, we present a new solution for the classification of cognitive load using electroencephalogram (EEG). Our model uses a transformer architecture employing transfer learning between emotions and cognitive load. We pre-train our model using self-supervised masked autoencoding on emotion-related EEG datasets and use transfer learning with both frozen weights and fine-tuning to perform downstream cognitive load classification. To evaluate our method, we carry out a series of experiments utilizing two publicly available EEG-based emotion datasets, namely SEED and SEED-IV, for pre-training, while we use the CL-Drive dataset for downstream cognitive load classification. The results of our experiments show that our proposed approach achieves strong results and outperforms conventional single-stage fully supervised learning. Moreover, we perform detailed ablation and sensitivity studies to evaluate the impact of different aspects of our proposed solution. This research contributes to the growing body of literature in affective computing with a focus on cognitive load, and opens up new avenues for future research in the field of cross-domain transfer learning using self-supervised pre-training. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** LGViT: Dynamic Early Exiting for Accelerating Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00255  
**Abstract:** Recently, the efficient deployment and acceleration of powerful vision transformers (ViTs) on resource-limited edge devices for providing multimedia services have become attractive tasks. Although early exiting is a feasible solution for accelerating inference, most works focus on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and transformer models in natural language processing (NLP).Moreover, the direct application of early exiting methods to ViTs may result in substantial performance degradation. To tackle this challenge, we systematically investigate the efficacy of early exiting in ViTs and point out that the insufficient feature representations in shallow internal classifiers and the limited ability to capture target semantic information in deep internal classifiers restrict the performance of these methods. We then propose an early exiting framework for general ViTs termed LGViT, which incorporates heterogeneous exiting heads, namely, local perception head and global aggregation head, to achieve an efficiency-accuracy trade-off. In particular, we develop a novel two-stage training scheme, including end-to-end training and self-distillation with the backbone frozen to generate early exiting ViTs, which facilitates the fusion of global and local information extracted by the two types of heads. We conduct extensive experiments using three popular ViT backbones on three vision datasets. Results demonstrate that our LGViT can achieve competitive performance with approximately 1.8 $\times$ speed-up. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Improving Pixel-based MIM by Reducing Wasted Modeling Capability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00261  
**Abstract:** There has been significant progress in Masked Image Modeling (MIM). Existing MIM methods can be broadly categorized into two groups based on the reconstruction target: pixel-based and tokenizer-based approaches. The former offers a simpler pipeline and lower computational cost, but it is known to be biased toward high-frequency details. In this paper, we provide a set of empirical studies to confirm this limitation of pixel-based MIM and propose a new method that explicitly utilizes low-level features from shallow layers to aid pixel reconstruction. By incorporating this design into our base method, MAE, we reduce the wasted modeling capability of pixel-based MIM, improving its convergence and achieving non-trivial improvements across various downstream tasks. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to systematically investigate multi-level feature fusion for isotropic architectures like the standard Vision Transformer (ViT). Notably, when applied to a smaller model (e.g., ViT-S), our method yields significant performance gains, such as 1.2\% on fine-tuning, 2.8\% on linear probing, and 2.6\% on semantic segmentation. Code and models are available at https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmpretrain. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Benchmarking Ultra-High-Definition Image Reflection Removal  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00265  
**Abstract:** Deep learning based methods have achieved significant success in the task of single image reflection removal (SIRR). However, the majority of these methods are focused on High-Definition/Standard-Definition (HD/SD) images, while ignoring higher resolution images such as Ultra-High-Definition (UHD) images. With the increasing prevalence of UHD images captured by modern devices, in this paper, we aim to address the problem of UHD SIRR. Specifically, we first synthesize two large-scale UHD datasets, UHDRR4K and UHDRR8K. The UHDRR4K dataset consists of $2,999$ and $168$ quadruplets of images for training and testing respectively, and the UHDRR8K dataset contains $1,014$ and $105$ quadruplets. To the best of our knowledge, these two datasets are the first largest-scale UHD datasets for SIRR. Then, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of six state-of-the-art SIRR methods using the proposed datasets. Based on the results, we provide detailed discussions regarding the strengths and limitations of these methods when applied to UHD images. Finally, we present a transformer-based architecture named RRFormer for reflection removal. RRFormer comprises three modules, namely the Prepossessing Embedding Module, Self-attention Feature Extraction Module, and Multi-scale Spatial Feature Extraction Module. These modules extract hypercolumn features, global and partial attention features, and multi-scale spatial features, respectively. To ensure effective training, we utilize three terms in our loss function: pixel loss, feature loss, and adversarial loss. We demonstrate through experimental results that RRFormer achieves state-of-the-art performance on both the non-UHD dataset and our proposed UHDRR datasets. The code and datasets are publicly available at https://github.com/Liar-zzy/Benchmarking-Ultra-High-Definition-Single-Image-Reflection-Removal. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Enhanced Security with Encrypted Vision Transformer in Federated  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00271  
**Abstract:** Federated learning is a learning method for training models over multiple participants without directly sharing their raw data, and it has been expected to be a privacy protection method for training data. In contrast, attack methods have been studied to restore learning data from model information shared with clients, so enhanced security against attacks has become an urgent problem. Accordingly, in this article, we propose a novel framework of federated learning on the bases of the embedded structure of the vision transformer by using the model information encrypted with a random sequence. In image classification experiments, we verify the effectiveness of the proposed method on the CIFAR-10 dataset in terms of classification accuracy and robustness against attacks. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Diffusion Model for Camouflaged Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00303  
**Abstract:** Camouflaged object detection is a challenging task that aims to identify objects that are highly similar to their background. Due to the powerful noise-to-image denoising capability of denoising diffusion models, in this paper, we propose a diffusion-based framework for camouflaged object detection, termed diffCOD, a new framework that considers the camouflaged object segmentation task as a denoising diffusion process from noisy masks to object masks. Specifically, the object mask diffuses from the ground-truth masks to a random distribution, and the designed model learns to reverse this noising process. To strengthen the denoising learning, the input image prior is encoded and integrated into the denoising diffusion model to guide the diffusion process. Furthermore, we design an injection attention module (IAM) to interact conditional semantic features extracted from the image with the diffusion noise embedding via the cross-attention mechanism to enhance denoising learning. Extensive experiments on four widely used COD benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed method achieves favorable performance compared to the existing 11 state-of-the-art methods, especially in the detailed texture segmentation of camouflaged objects. Our code will be made publicly available at: https://github.com/ZNan-Chen/diffCOD. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Counterfactual Graph Transformer for Traffic Flow Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00391  
**Abstract:** Traffic flow prediction (TFP) is a fundamental problem of the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), as it models the latent spatial-temporal dependency of traffic flow for potential congestion prediction. Recent graph-based models with multiple kinds of attention mechanisms have achieved promising performance. However, existing methods for traffic flow prediction tend to inherit the bias pattern from the dataset and lack interpretability. To this end, we propose a Counterfactual Graph Transformer (CGT) model with an instance-level explainer (e.g., finding the important subgraphs) specifically designed for TFP. We design a perturbation mask generator over input sensor features at the time dimension and the graph structure on the graph transformer module to obtain spatial and temporal counterfactual explanations. By searching the optimal perturbation masks on the input data feature and graph structures, we can obtain the concise and dominant data or graph edge links for the subsequent TFP task. After re-training the utilized graph transformer model after counterfactual perturbation, we can obtain improved and interpretable traffic flow prediction. Extensive results on three real-world public datasets show that CGT can produce reliable explanations and is promising for traffic flow prediction. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** FLatten Transformer: Vision Transformer using Focused Linear Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00442  
**Abstract:** The quadratic computation complexity of self-attention has been a persistent challenge when applying Transformer models to vision tasks. Linear attention, on the other hand, offers a much more efficient alternative with its linear complexity by approximating the Softmax operation through carefully designed mapping functions. However, current linear attention approaches either suffer from significant performance degradation or introduce additional computation overhead from the mapping functions. In this paper, we propose a novel Focused Linear Attention module to achieve both high efficiency and expressiveness. Specifically, we first analyze the factors contributing to the performance degradation of linear attention from two perspectives: the focus ability and feature diversity. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a simple yet effective mapping function and an efficient rank restoration module to enhance the expressiveness of self-attention while maintaining low computation complexity. Extensive experiments show that our linear attention module is applicable to a variety of advanced vision Transformers, and achieves consistently improved performances on multiple benchmarks. Code is available at https://github.com/LeapLabTHU/FLatten-Transformer. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** ViT2EEG: Leveraging Hybrid Pretrained Vision Transformers for EEG Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00454  
**Abstract:** In this study, we demonstrate the application of a hybrid Vision Transformer (ViT) model, pretrained on ImageNet, on an electroencephalogram (EEG) regression task. Despite being originally trained for image classification tasks, when fine-tuned on EEG data, this model shows a notable increase in performance compared to other models, including an identical architecture ViT trained without the ImageNet weights. This discovery challenges the traditional understanding of model generalization, suggesting that Transformer models pretrained on seemingly unrelated image data can provide valuable priors for EEG regression tasks with an appropriate fine-tuning pipeline. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Context-Aware Talking-Head Video Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00462  
**Abstract:** Talking-head video editing aims to efficiently insert, delete, and substitute the word of a pre-recorded video through a text transcript editor. The key challenge for this task is obtaining an editing model that generates new talking-head video clips which simultaneously have accurate lip synchronization and motion smoothness. Previous approaches, including 3DMM-based (3D Morphable Model) methods and NeRF-based (Neural Radiance Field) methods, are sub-optimal in that they either require minutes of source videos and days of training time or lack the disentangled control of verbal (e.g., lip motion) and non-verbal (e.g., head pose and expression) representations for video clip insertion. In this work, we fully utilize the video context to design a novel framework for talking-head video editing, which achieves efficiency, disentangled motion control, and sequential smoothness. Specifically, we decompose this framework to motion prediction and motion-conditioned rendering: (1) We first design an animation prediction module that efficiently obtains smooth and lip-sync motion sequences conditioned on the driven speech. This module adopts a non-autoregressive network to obtain context prior and improve the prediction efficiency, and it learns a speech-animation mapping prior with better generalization to novel speech from a multi-identity video dataset. (2) We then introduce a neural rendering module to synthesize the photo-realistic and full-head video frames given the predicted motion sequence. This module adopts a pre-trained head topology and uses only few frames for efficient fine-tuning to obtain a person-specific rendering model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method efficiently achieves smoother editing results with higher image quality and lip accuracy using less data than previous methods. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Massively Parallel Algorithms for High-Dimensional Euclidean Minimum  Spanning Tree  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00503  
**Abstract:** We study the classic Euclidean Minimum Spanning Tree (MST) problem in the Massively Parallel Computation (MPC) model. Given a set $X \subset \mathbb{R}^d$ of $n$ points, the goal is to produce a spanning tree for $X$ with weight within a small factor of optimal. Euclidean MST is one of the most fundamental hierarchical geometric clustering algorithms, and with the proliferation of enormous high-dimensional data sets, such as massive transformer-based embeddings, there is now a critical demand for efficient distributed algorithms to cluster such data sets. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Adaptive Bitrate Video Semantic Communication over Wireless Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00531  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the adaptive bitrate (ABR) video semantic communication over wireless networks. In the considered model, video sensing devices must transmit video semantic information to an edge server, to facilitate ubiquitous video sensing services such as road environment monitoring at the edge server in autonomous driving scenario. However, due to the varying wireless network conditions, it is challenging to guarantee both low transmission delay and high semantic accuracy at the same time if devices continuously transmit a fixed bitrate video semantic information. To address this challenge, we develop an adaptive bitrate video semantic communication (ABRVSC) system, in which devices adaptively adjust the bitrate of video semantic information according to network conditions. Specifically, we first define the quality of experience (QoE) for video semantic communication. Subsequently, a swin transformer-based semantic codec is proposed to extract semantic information with considering the influence of QoE. Then, we propose an Actor-Critic based ABR algorithm for the semantic codec to enhance the robustness of the proposed ABRVSC scheme against network variations. Simulation results demonstrate that at low bitrates, the mean intersection over union (MIoU) of the proposed ABRVSC scheme is nearly twice that of the traditional scheme. Moreover, the proposed ABRVSC scheme, which increases the QoE in video semantic communication by 36.57%, exhibits more robustness against network variations compared to both the fixed bitrate schemes and traditional ABR schemes. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Graph Contrastive Learning with Generative Adversarial Network  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00535  
**Abstract:** Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have demonstrated promising results on exploiting node representations for many downstream tasks through supervised end-to-end training. To deal with the widespread label scarcity issue in real-world applications, Graph Contrastive Learning (GCL) is leveraged to train GNNs with limited or even no labels by maximizing the mutual information between nodes in its augmented views generated from the original graph. However, the distribution of graphs remains unconsidered in view generation, resulting in the ignorance of unseen edges in most existing literature, which is empirically shown to be able to improve GCL's performance in our experiments. To this end, we propose to incorporate graph generative adversarial networks (GANs) to learn the distribution of views for GCL, in order to i) automatically capture the characteristic of graphs for augmentations, and ii) jointly train the graph GAN model and the GCL model. Specifically, we present GACN, a novel Generative Adversarial Contrastive learning Network for graph representation learning. GACN develops a view generator and a view discriminator to generate augmented views automatically in an adversarial style. Then, GACN leverages these views to train a GNN encoder with two carefully designed self-supervised learning losses, including the graph contrastive loss and the Bayesian personalized ranking Loss. Furthermore, we design an optimization framework to train all GACN modules jointly. Extensive experiments on seven real-world datasets show that GACN is able to generate high-quality augmented views for GCL and is superior to twelve state-of-the-art baseline methods. Noticeably, our proposed GACN surprisingly discovers that the generated views in data augmentation finally conform to the well-known preferential attachment rule in online networks. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Detecting Cloud Presence in Satellite Images Using the RGB-based CLIP  Vision-Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00541  
**Abstract:** This work explores capabilities of the pre-trained CLIP vision-language model to identify satellite images affected by clouds. Several approaches to using the model to perform cloud presence detection are proposed and evaluated, including a purely zero-shot operation with text prompts and several fine-tuning approaches. Furthermore, the transferability of the methods across different datasets and sensor types (Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8) is tested. The results that CLIP can achieve non-trivial performance on the cloud presence detection task with apparent capability to generalise across sensing modalities and sensing bands. It is also found that a low-cost fine-tuning stage leads to a strong increase in true negative rate. The results demonstrate that the representations learned by the CLIP model can be useful for satellite image processing tasks involving clouds. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** PVG: Progressive Vision Graph for Vision Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00574  
**Abstract:** Convolution-based and Transformer-based vision backbone networks process images into the grid or sequence structures, respectively, which are inflexible for capturing irregular objects. Though Vision GNN (ViG) adopts graph-level features for complex images, it has some issues, such as inaccurate neighbor node selection, expensive node information aggregation calculation, and over-smoothing in the deep layers. To address the above problems, we propose a Progressive Vision Graph (PVG) architecture for vision recognition task. Compared with previous works, PVG contains three main components: 1) Progressively Separated Graph Construction (PSGC) to introduce second-order similarity by gradually increasing the channel of the global graph branch and decreasing the channel of local branch as the layer deepens; 2) Neighbor nodes information aggregation and update module by using Max pooling and mathematical Expectation (MaxE) to aggregate rich neighbor information; 3) Graph error Linear Unit (GraphLU) to enhance low-value information in a relaxed form to reduce the compression of image detail information for alleviating the over-smoothing. Extensive experiments on mainstream benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of PVG over state-of-the-art methods, e.g., our PVG-S obtains 83.0% Top-1 accuracy on ImageNet-1K that surpasses GNN-based ViG-S by +0.9 with the parameters reduced by 18.5%, while the largest PVG-B obtains 84.2% that has +0.5 improvement than ViG-B. Furthermore, our PVG-S obtains +1.3 box AP and +0.4 mask AP gains than ViG-S on COCO dataset. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Tool Documentation Enables Zero-Shot Tool-Usage with Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00675  
**Abstract:** Today, large language models (LLMs) are taught to use new tools by providing a few demonstrations of the tool's usage. Unfortunately, demonstrations are hard to acquire, and can result in undesirable biased usage if the wrong demonstration is chosen. Even in the rare scenario that demonstrations are readily available, there is no principled selection protocol to determine how many and which ones to provide. As tasks grow more complex, the selection search grows combinatorially and invariably becomes intractable. Our work provides an alternative to demonstrations: tool documentation. We advocate the use of tool documentation, descriptions for the individual tool usage, over demonstrations. We substantiate our claim through three main empirical findings on 6 tasks across both vision and language modalities. First, on existing benchmarks, zero-shot prompts with only tool documentation are sufficient for eliciting proper tool usage, achieving performance on par with few-shot prompts. Second, on a newly collected realistic tool-use dataset with hundreds of available tool APIs, we show that tool documentation is significantly more valuable than demonstrations, with zero-shot documentation significantly outperforming few-shot without documentation. Third, we highlight the benefits of tool documentations by tackling image generation and video tracking using just-released unseen state-of-the-art models as tools. Finally, we highlight the possibility of using tool documentation to automatically enable new applications: by using nothing more than the documentation of GroundingDino, Stable Diffusion, XMem, and SAM, LLMs can re-invent the functionalities of the just-released Grounded-SAM and Track Anything models. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** CodeBPE: Investigating Subtokenization Options for Large Language Model  Pretraining on Source Code  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00683  
**Abstract:** Recent works have widely adopted large language model pretraining for source code, suggested source code-specific pretraining objectives and investigated the applicability of various Transformer-based language model architectures for source code. This work investigates another important aspect of such models, namely the effect of different subtokenization options, and aims at identifying most effective and length-efficient subtokenizations, taking into account code specifics. We propose subtokenziation that reduces average length by 17% without downstream performance drop, and show that a carefully chosen subtokenization may improve quality by 0.5-2%, possibly with some length increase. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Alpha-GPT: Human-AI Interactive Alpha Mining for Quantitative Investment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00016  
**Abstract:** One of the most important tasks in quantitative investment research is mining new alphas (effective trading signals or factors). Traditional alpha mining methods, either hand-crafted factor synthesizing or algorithmic factor mining (e.g., search with genetic programming), have inherent limitations, especially in implementing the ideas of quants. In this work, we propose a new alpha mining paradigm by introducing human-AI interaction, and a novel prompt engineering algorithmic framework to implement this paradigm by leveraging the power of large language models. Moreover, we develop Alpha-GPT, a new interactive alpha mining system framework that provides a heuristic way to ``understand'' the ideas of quant researchers and outputs creative, insightful, and effective alphas. We demonstrate the effectiveness and advantage of Alpha-GPT via a number of alpha mining experiments. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Ensemble Learning with Residual Transformer for Brain Tumor Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00128  
**Abstract:** Brain tumor segmentation is an active research area due to the difficulty in delineating highly complex shaped and textured tumors as well as the failure of the commonly used U-Net architectures. The combination of different neural architectures is among the mainstream research recently, particularly the combination of U-Net with Transformers because of their innate attention mechanism and pixel-wise labeling. Different from previous efforts, this paper proposes a novel network architecture that integrates Transformers into a self-adaptive U-Net to draw out 3D volumetric contexts with reasonable computational costs. We further add a residual connection to prevent degradation in information flow and explore ensemble methods, as the evaluated models have edges on different cases and sub-regions. On the BraTS 2021 dataset (3D), our model achieves 87.6% mean Dice score and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods, demonstrating the potential for combining multiple architectures to optimize brain tumor segmentation. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Speech representation learning: Learning bidirectional encoders with  single-view, multi-view, and multi-task methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00129  
**Abstract:** This thesis focuses on representation learning for sequence data over time or space, aiming to improve downstream sequence prediction tasks by using the learned representations. Supervised learning has been the most dominant approach for training deep neural networks for learning good sequential representations. However, one limiting factor to scale supervised learning is the lack of enough annotated data. Motivated by this challenge, it is natural to explore representation learning methods that can utilize large amounts of unlabeled and weakly labeled data, as well as an additional data modality. I describe my broad study of representation learning for speech data. Unlike most other works that focus on a single learning setting, this thesis studies multiple settings: supervised learning with auxiliary losses, unsupervised learning, semi-supervised learning, and multi-view learning. Besides different learning problems, I also explore multiple approaches for representation learning. Though I focus on speech data, the methods described in this thesis can also be applied to other domains. Overall, the field of representation learning is developing rapidly. State-of-the-art results on speech related tasks are typically based on Transformers pre-trained with large-scale self-supervised learning, which aims to learn generic representations that can benefit multiple downstream tasks. Since 2020, large-scale pre-training has been the de facto choice to achieve good performance. This delayed thesis does not attempt to summarize and compare with the latest results on speech representation learning; instead, it presents a unique study on speech representation learning before the Transformer era, that covers multiple learning settings. Some of the findings in this thesis can still be useful today. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** C-DARL: Contrastive diffusion adversarial representation learning for  label-free blood vessel segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00193  
**Abstract:** Blood vessel segmentation in medical imaging is one of the essential steps for vascular disease diagnosis and interventional planning in a broad spectrum of clinical scenarios in image-based medicine and interventional medicine. Unfortunately, manual annotation of the vessel masks is challenging and resource-intensive due to subtle branches and complex structures. To overcome this issue, this paper presents a self-supervised vessel segmentation method, dubbed the contrastive diffusion adversarial representation learning (C-DARL) model. Our model is composed of a diffusion module and a generation module that learns the distribution of multi-domain blood vessel data by generating synthetic vessel images from diffusion latent. Moreover, we employ contrastive learning through a mask-based contrastive loss so that the model can learn more realistic vessel representations. To validate the efficacy, C-DARL is trained using various vessel datasets, including coronary angiograms, abdominal digital subtraction angiograms, and retinal imaging. Experimental results confirm that our model achieves performance improvement over baseline methods with noise robustness, suggesting the effectiveness of C-DARL for vessel segmentation. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** SkullGAN: Synthetic Skull CT Generation with Generative Adversarial  Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00206  
**Abstract:** Deep learning offers potential for various healthcare applications involving the human skull but requires extensive datasets of curated medical images. To overcome this challenge, we propose SkullGAN, a generative adversarial network (GAN), to create large datasets of synthetic skull CT slices, reducing reliance on real images and accelerating the integration of machine learning into healthcare. In our method, CT slices of 38 subjects were fed to SkullGAN, a neural network comprising over 200 million parameters. The synthetic skull images generated were evaluated based on three quantitative radiological features: skull density ratio (SDR), mean thickness, and mean intensity. They were further analyzed using t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE) and by applying the SkullGAN discriminator as a classifier. The results showed that SkullGAN-generated images demonstrated similar key quantitative radiological features to real skulls. Further definitive analysis was undertaken by applying the discriminator of SkullGAN, where the SkullGAN discriminator classified 56.5% of a test set of real skull images and 55.9% of the SkullGAN-generated images as reals (the theoretical optimum being 50%), demonstrating that the SkullGAN-generated skull set is indistinguishable from the real skull set - within the limits of our nonlinear classifier. Therefore, SkullGAN makes it possible to generate large numbers of synthetic skull CT segments, necessary for training neural networks for medical applications involving the human skull. This mitigates challenges associated with preparing large, high-quality training datasets, such as access, capital, time, and the need for domain expertise. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Unleashing the Power of Self-Supervised Image Denoising: A Comprehensive  Review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00247  
**Abstract:** The advent of deep learning has brought a revolutionary transformation to image denoising techniques. However, the persistent challenge of acquiring noise-clean pairs for supervised methods in real-world scenarios remains formidable, necessitating the exploration of more practical self-supervised image denoising. This paper focuses on self-supervised image denoising methods that offer effective solutions to address this challenge. Our comprehensive review thoroughly analyzes the latest advancements in self-supervised image denoising approaches, categorizing them into three distinct classes: General methods, Blind Spot Network (BSN)-based methods, and Transformer-based methods. For each class, we provide a concise theoretical analysis along with their practical applications. To assess the effectiveness of these methods, we present both quantitative and qualitative experimental results on various datasets, utilizing classical algorithms as benchmarks. Additionally, we critically discuss the current limitations of these methods and propose promising directions for future research. By offering a detailed overview of recent developments in self-supervised image denoising, this review serves as an invaluable resource for researchers and practitioners in the field, facilitating a deeper understanding of this emerging domain and inspiring further advancements. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** DINO-CXR: A self supervised method based on vision transformer for chest  X-ray classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00475  
**Abstract:** The limited availability of labeled chest X-ray datasets is a significant bottleneck in the development of medical imaging methods. Self-supervised learning (SSL) can mitigate this problem by training models on unlabeled data. Furthermore, self-supervised pretraining has yielded promising results in visual recognition of natural images but has not been given much consideration in medical image analysis. In this work, we propose a self-supervised method, DINO-CXR, which is a novel adaptation of a self-supervised method, DINO, based on a vision transformer for chest X-ray classification. A comparative analysis is performed to show the effectiveness of the proposed method for both pneumonia and COVID-19 detection. Through a quantitative analysis, it is also shown that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of accuracy and achieves comparable results in terms of AUC and F-1 score while requiring significantly less labeled data. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Improved Prognostic Prediction of Pancreatic Cancer Using Multi-Phase CT  by Integrating Neural Distance and Texture-Aware Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00507  
**Abstract:** Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal cancer in which the tumor-vascular involvement greatly affects the resectability and, thus, overall survival of patients. However, current prognostic prediction methods fail to explicitly and accurately investigate relationships between the tumor and nearby important vessels. This paper proposes a novel learnable neural distance that describes the precise relationship between the tumor and vessels in CT images of different patients, adopting it as a major feature for prognosis prediction. Besides, different from existing models that used CNNs or LSTMs to exploit tumor enhancement patterns on dynamic contrast-enhanced CT imaging, we improved the extraction of dynamic tumor-related texture features in multi-phase contrast-enhanced CT by fusing local and global features using CNN and transformer modules, further enhancing the features extracted across multi-phase CT images. We extensively evaluated and compared the proposed method with existing methods in the multi-center (n=4) dataset with 1,070 patients with PDAC, and statistical analysis confirmed its clinical effectiveness in the external test set consisting of three centers. The developed risk marker was the strongest predictor of overall survival among preoperative factors and it has the potential to be combined with established clinical factors to select patients at higher risk who might benefit from neoadjuvant therapy. 

