**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Large Language Models in Introductory Programming Education: ChatGPT's  Performance and Implications for Assessments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08572  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the performance of the Large Language Models (LLMs) ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4 in solving introductory programming tasks. Based on the performance, implications for didactic scenarios and assessment formats utilizing LLMs are derived. For the analysis, 72 Python tasks for novice programmers were selected from the free site CodingBat. Full task descriptions were used as input to the LLMs, while the generated replies were evaluated using CodingBat's unit tests. In addition, the general availability of textual explanations and program code was analyzed. The results show high scores of 94.4 to 95.8% correct responses and reliable availability of textual explanations and program code, which opens new ways to incorporate LLMs into programming education and assessment. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Boosting Logical Reasoning in Large Language Models through a New  Framework: The Graph of Thought  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08614  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in large-scale models, such as GPT-4, have showcased remarkable capabilities in addressing standard queries. However, when facing complex problems that require multi-step logical reasoning, their accuracy dramatically decreases. Current research has explored the realm of \textit{prompting engineering} to bolster the inferential capacities of these models. Our paper unveils a pioneering prompting technique, dubbed \textit{Graph of Thoughts (GoT)}. Through testing on a trio of escalating challenges: the 24-point game, resolution of high-degree polynomial equations, and derivation of formulas for recursive sequences, our method outperformed GPT-4, achieving accuracy improvements of $89.7\%$, $86\%$, and $56\%$ for each respective task. Moreover, when juxtaposed with the state-of-the-art (SOTA) prompting method, \textit{Tree of Thought (ToT)}, our approach registered an average accuracy boost of $23\%$, $24\%$, and $15\%$. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** BIOptimus: Pre-training an Optimal Biomedical Language Model with  Curriculum Learning for Named Entity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08625  
**Abstract:** Using language models (LMs) pre-trained in a self-supervised setting on large corpora and then fine-tuning for a downstream task has helped to deal with the problem of limited label data for supervised learning tasks such as Named Entity Recognition (NER). Recent research in biomedical language processing has offered a number of biomedical LMs pre-trained using different methods and techniques that advance results on many BioNLP tasks, including NER. However, there is still a lack of a comprehensive comparison of pre-training approaches that would work more optimally in the biomedical domain. This paper aims to investigate different pre-training methods, such as pre-training the biomedical LM from scratch and pre-training it in a continued fashion. We compare existing methods with our proposed pre-training method of initializing weights for new tokens by distilling existing weights from the BERT model inside the context where the tokens were found. The method helps to speed up the pre-training stage and improve performance on NER. In addition, we compare how masking rate, corruption strategy, and masking strategies impact the performance of the biomedical LM. Finally, using the insights from our experiments, we introduce a new biomedical LM (BIOptimus), which is pre-trained using Curriculum Learning (CL) and contextualized weight distillation method. Our model sets new states of the art on several biomedical Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks. We release our code and all pre-trained models 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Advancements in Repetitive Action Counting: Joint-Based PoseRAC Model  With Improved Performance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08632  
**Abstract:** Repetitive counting (RepCount) is critical in various applications, such as fitness tracking and rehabilitation. Previous methods have relied on the estimation of red-green-and-blue (RGB) frames and body pose landmarks to identify the number of action repetitions, but these methods suffer from a number of issues, including the inability to stably handle changes in camera viewpoints, over-counting, under-counting, difficulty in distinguishing between sub-actions, inaccuracy in recognizing salient poses, etc. In this paper, based on the work done by [1], we integrate joint angles with body pose landmarks to address these challenges and achieve better results than the state-of-the-art RepCount methods, with a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 0.211 and an Off-By-One (OBO) counting accuracy of 0.599 on the RepCount data set [2]. Comprehensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of our method. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Large Language Models for Granularized Barrett's Esophagus Diagnosis  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08660  
**Abstract:** Diagnostic codes for Barrett's esophagus (BE), a precursor to esophageal cancer, lack granularity and precision for many research or clinical use cases. Laborious manual chart review is required to extract key diagnostic phenotypes from BE pathology reports. We developed a generalizable transformer-based method to automate data extraction. Using pathology reports from Columbia University Irving Medical Center with gastroenterologist-annotated targets, we performed binary dysplasia classification as well as granularized multi-class BE-related diagnosis classification. We utilized two clinically pre-trained large language models, with best model performance comparable to a highly tailored rule-based system developed using the same data. Binary dysplasia extraction achieves 0.964 F1-score, while the multi-class model achieves 0.911 F1-score. Our method is generalizable and faster to implement as compared to a tailored rule-based approach. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** SkinDistilViT: Lightweight Vision Transformer for Skin Lesion  Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08669  
**Abstract:** Skin cancer is a treatable disease if discovered early. We provide a production-specific solution to the skin cancer classification problem that matches human performance in melanoma identification by training a vision transformer on melanoma medical images annotated by experts. Since inference cost, both time and memory wise is important in practice, we employ knowledge distillation to obtain a model that retains 98.33% of the teacher's balanced multi-class accuracy, at a fraction of the cost. Memory-wise, our model is 49.60% smaller than the teacher. Time-wise, our solution is 69.25% faster on GPU and 97.96% faster on CPU. By adding classification heads at each level of the transformer and employing a cascading distillation process, we improve the balanced multi-class accuracy of the base model by 2.1%, while creating a range of models of various sizes but comparable performance. We provide the code at https://github.com/Longman-Stan/SkinDistilVit. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Decoding Emotions: A comprehensive Multilingual Study of Speech Models  for Speech Emotion Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08713  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in transformer-based speech representation models have greatly transformed speech processing. However, there has been limited research conducted on evaluating these models for speech emotion recognition (SER) across multiple languages and examining their internal representations. This article addresses these gaps by presenting a comprehensive benchmark for SER with eight speech representation models and six different languages. We conducted probing experiments to gain insights into inner workings of these models for SER. We find that using features from a single optimal layer of a speech model reduces the error rate by 32\% on average across seven datasets when compared to systems where features from all layers of speech models are used. We also achieve state-of-the-art results for German and Persian languages. Our probing results indicate that the middle layers of speech models capture the most important emotional information for speech emotion recognition. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Long-Range Grouping Transformer for Multi-View 3D Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08724  
**Abstract:** Nowadays, transformer networks have demonstrated superior performance in many computer vision tasks. In a multi-view 3D reconstruction algorithm following this paradigm, self-attention processing has to deal with intricate image tokens including massive information when facing heavy amounts of view input. The curse of information content leads to the extreme difficulty of model learning. To alleviate this problem, recent methods compress the token number representing each view or discard the attention operations between the tokens from different views. Obviously, they give a negative impact on performance. Therefore, we propose long-range grouping attention (LGA) based on the divide-and-conquer principle. Tokens from all views are grouped for separate attention operations. The tokens in each group are sampled from all views and can provide macro representation for the resided view. The richness of feature learning is guaranteed by the diversity among different groups. An effective and efficient encoder can be established which connects inter-view features using LGA and extract intra-view features using the standard self-attention layer. Moreover, a novel progressive upsampling decoder is also designed for voxel generation with relatively high resolution. Hinging on the above, we construct a powerful transformer-based network, called LRGT. Experimental results on ShapeNet verify our method achieves SOTA accuracy in multi-view reconstruction. Code will be available at https://github.com/LiyingCV/Long-Range-Grouping-Transformer. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Learning A Coarse-to-Fine Diffusion Transformer for Image Restoration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08730  
**Abstract:** Recent years have witnessed the remarkable performance of diffusion models in various vision tasks. However, for image restoration that aims to recover clear images with sharper details from given degraded observations, diffusion-based methods may fail to recover promising results due to inaccurate noise estimation. Moreover, simple constraining noises cannot effectively learn complex degradation information, which subsequently hinders the model capacity. To solve the above problems, we propose a coarse-to-fine diffusion Transformer (C2F-DFT) for image restoration. Specifically, our C2F-DFT contains diffusion self-attention (DFSA) and diffusion feed-forward network (DFN) within a new coarse-to-fine training scheme. The DFSA and DFN respectively capture the long-range diffusion dependencies and learn hierarchy diffusion representation to facilitate better restoration. In the coarse training stage, our C2F-DFT estimates noises and then generates the final clean image by a sampling algorithm. To further improve the restoration quality, we propose a simple yet effective fine training scheme. It first exploits the coarse-trained diffusion model with fixed steps to generate restoration results, which then would be constrained with corresponding ground-truth ones to optimize the models to remedy the unsatisfactory results affected by inaccurate noise estimation. Extensive experiments show that C2F-DFT significantly outperforms diffusion-based restoration method IR-SDE and achieves competitive performance compared with Transformer-based state-of-the-art methods on $3$ tasks, including deraining, deblurring, and real denoising. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Enhancing Phrase Representation by Information Bottleneck Guided Text  Diffusion Process for Keyphrase Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08739  
**Abstract:** Keyphrase extraction (KPE) is an important task in Natural Language Processing for many scenarios, which aims to extract keyphrases that are present in a given document. Many existing supervised methods treat KPE as sequential labeling, span-level classification, or generative tasks. However, these methods lack the ability to utilize keyphrase information, which may result in biased results. In this study, we propose Diff-KPE, which leverages the supervised Variational Information Bottleneck (VIB) to guide the text diffusion process for generating enhanced keyphrase representations. Diff-KPE first generates the desired keyphrase embeddings conditioned on the entire document and then injects the generated keyphrase embeddings into each phrase representation. A ranking network and VIB are then optimized together with rank loss and classification loss, respectively. This design of Diff-KPE allows us to rank each candidate phrase by utilizing both the information of keyphrases and the document. Experiments show that Diff-KPE outperforms existing KPE methods on a large open domain keyphrase extraction benchmark, OpenKP, and a scientific domain dataset, KP20K. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** PMET: Precise Model Editing in a Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08742  
**Abstract:** Model editing techniques modify a minor proportion of knowledge in Large Language Models (LLMs) at a relatively low cost, which have demonstrated notable success. Existing methods assume Transformer Layer (TL) hidden states are values of key-value memories of the Feed-Forward Network (FFN). They usually optimize the TL hidden states to memorize target knowledge and use it to update the weights of the FFN in LLMs. However, the information flow of TL hidden states comes from three parts: Multi-Head Self-Attention (MHSA), FFN, and residual connections. Existing methods neglect the fact that the TL hidden states contains information not specifically required for FFN. Consequently, the performance of model editing decreases. To achieve more precise model editing, we analyze hidden states of MHSA and FFN, finding that MHSA encodes certain general knowledge extraction patterns. This implies that MHSA weights do not require updating when new knowledge is introduced. Based on above findings, we introduce PMET, which simultaneously optimizes Transformer Component (TC, namely MHSA and FFN) hidden states, while only using the optimized TC hidden states of FFN to precisely update FFN weights. Our experiments demonstrate that PMET exhibits state-of-the-art performance on both the \textsc{counterfact} and zsRE datasets. Our ablation experiments substantiate the effectiveness of our enhancements, further reinforcing the finding that the MHSA encodes certain general knowledge extraction patterns and indicating its storage of a small amount of factual knowledge. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/xpq-tech/PMET.git}. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** BOTT: Box Only Transformer Tracker for 3D Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08753  
**Abstract:** Tracking 3D objects is an important task in autonomous driving. Classical Kalman Filtering based methods are still the most popular solutions. However, these methods require handcrafted designs in motion modeling and can not benefit from the growing data amounts. In this paper, Box Only Transformer Tracker (BOTT) is proposed to learn to link 3D boxes of the same object from the different frames, by taking all the 3D boxes in a time window as input. Specifically, transformer self-attention is applied to exchange information between all the boxes to learn global-informative box embeddings. The similarity between these learned embeddings can be used to link the boxes of the same object. BOTT can be used for both online and offline tracking modes seamlessly. Its simplicity enables us to significantly reduce engineering efforts required by traditional Kalman Filtering based methods. Experiments show BOTT achieves competitive performance on two largest 3D MOT benchmarks: 69.9 and 66.7 AMOTA on nuScenes validation and test splits, respectively, 56.45 and 59.57 MOTA L2 on Waymo Open Dataset validation and test splits, respectively. This work suggests that tracking 3D objects by learning features directly from 3D boxes using transformers is a simple yet effective way. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Fine-grained Text and Image Guided Point Cloud Completion with CLIP  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08754  
**Abstract:** This paper focuses on the recently popular task of point cloud completion guided by multimodal information. Although existing methods have achieved excellent performance by fusing auxiliary images, there are still some deficiencies, including the poor generalization ability of the model and insufficient fine-grained semantic information for extracted features. In this work, we propose a novel multimodal fusion network for point cloud completion, which can simultaneously fuse visual and textual information to predict the semantic and geometric characteristics of incomplete shapes effectively. Specifically, to overcome the lack of prior information caused by the small-scale dataset, we employ a pre-trained vision-language model that is trained with a large amount of image-text pairs. Therefore, the textual and visual encoders of this large-scale model have stronger generalization ability. Then, we propose a multi-stage feature fusion strategy to fuse the textual and visual features into the backbone network progressively. Meanwhile, to further explore the effectiveness of fine-grained text descriptions for point cloud completion, we also build a text corpus with fine-grained descriptions, which can provide richer geometric details for 3D shapes. The rich text descriptions can be used for training and evaluating our network. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate the superior performance of our method compared to state-of-the-art point cloud completion networks. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Chat-3D: Data-efficiently Tuning Large Language Model for Universal  Dialogue of 3D Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08769  
**Abstract:** 3D scene understanding has gained significant attention due to its wide range of applications. However, existing methods for 3D scene understanding are limited to specific downstream tasks, which hinders their practicality in real-world applications. This paper presents Chat-3D, which combines the 3D visual perceptual ability of pre-trained 3D representations and the impressive reasoning and conversation capabilities of advanced LLMs to achieve the first universal dialogue systems for 3D scenes. Specifically, we align 3D representations into the feature space of LLMs, thus enabling LLMs to perceive the 3D world. Given the scarcity of 3D scene-text data, we propose a three-stage training strategy to efficiently utilize the available data for better alignment. To enhance the reasoning ability and develop a user-friendly interaction scheme, we further construct a high-quality object-centric 3D instruction dataset and design an associated object-centric prompt. Our experiments show that Chat-3D achieves an impressive ability to comprehend diverse instructions for 3D scenes, engage in intricate spatial reasoning, and incorporate external knowledge into its responses. Chat-3D achieves a 75.6% relative score compared with GPT-4 on the constructed instruction dataset. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Learning to In-paint: Domain Adaptive Shape Completion for 3D Organ  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08775  
**Abstract:** We aim at incorporating explicit shape information into current 3D organ segmentation models. Different from previous works, we formulate shape learning as an in-painting task, which is named Masked Label Mask Modeling (MLM). Through MLM, learnable mask tokens are fed into transformer blocks to complete the label mask of organ. To transfer MLM shape knowledge to target, we further propose a novel shape-aware self-distillation with both in-painting reconstruction loss and pseudo loss. Extensive experiments on five public organ segmentation datasets show consistent improvements over prior arts with at least 1.2 points gain in the Dice score, demonstrating the effectiveness of our method in challenging unsupervised domain adaptation scenarios including: (1) In-domain organ segmentation; (2) Unseen domain segmentation and (3) Unseen organ segmentation. We hope this work will advance shape analysis and geometric learning in medical imaging. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Exploring Demonstration Ensembling for In-context Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08780  
**Abstract:** In-context learning (ICL) operates by showing language models (LMs) examples of input-output pairs for a given task, i.e., demonstrations. The standard approach for ICL is to prompt the LM with concatenated demonstrations followed by the test input. This approach suffers from some issues. First, concatenation offers almost no control over the contribution of each demo to the model prediction. This can be sub-optimal when some demonstrations are irrelevant to the test example. Second, due to the input length limit of some transformer models, it might be infeasible to fit many examples into the context, especially when dealing with long-input tasks. In this work, we explore Demonstration Ensembling (DENSE) as an alternative to simple concatenation. \model predicts outputs using subsets (i.e., buckets) of the demonstrations and then combines the output probabilities resulting from each subset to produce the final prediction. We study different ensembling methods using GPT-j and experiment on 12 language tasks. Our experiments show weighted max ensembling to outperform vanilla concatenation by as large as 2.4 average points. Code available at \url{https://github.com/mukhal/icl-ensembling}. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** CodeCoT and Beyond: Learning to Program and Test like a Developer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08784  
**Abstract:** In natural language processing, transformer-based large language models (LLMs) like GPT-x models developed by OpenAI have revolutionized the landscape. Despite their impressive capabilities, these models often encounter challenges when handling tasks that differ from their training data, resulting in compromised performance. To address this, few-shot learning has emerged as a valuable technique, allowing LLMs to adapt with minimal task-specific data. One innovative strategy, known as Chain-of-Thought Prompting (CoT), has been introduced to guide LLMs in revealing cognitive processes during multi-step reasoning. In this paper, we propose Code Chain-of-Thought~(CodeCoT), which consists of two components: the Vanilla CodeCoT and the Self-exam CodeCoT. The latter incorporates self-examination, empowering the model to iteratively generate code, formulate test cases, and refine its outputs. Specifically, the process entails the generation of test examples by the model corresponding to the code it is tasked to implement. If it fails on the test examples, then it regenerates the code based on the erroneous code and associated error types. Through comprehensive experiments, we observed that both techniques significantly enhance code generation accuracy across various LLM variants. Our evaluation results reveal that CodeCoT improves the code generation effectiveness, including an unprecedented pass@1 accuracy of 79.27\% using the Self-exam CodeCoT approach on the gpt-3.5-turbo-0613 model in the HumanEval dataset. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Chinese Spelling Correction as Rephrasing Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08796  
**Abstract:** This paper studies Chinese Spelling Correction (CSC), which aims to detect and correct potential spelling errors in a given sentence. Current state-of-the-art methods regard CSC as a sequence tagging task and fine-tune BERT-based models on sentence pairs. However, we note a critical flaw in the process of tagging one character to another, that the correction is excessively conditioned on the error. This is opposite from human mindset, where individuals rephrase the complete sentence based on its semantics, rather than solely on the error patterns memorized before. Such a counter-intuitive learning process results in the bottleneck of generalizability and transferability of machine spelling correction. To address this, we propose $Rephrasing Language Modeling$ (ReLM), where the model is trained to rephrase the entire sentence by infilling additional slots, instead of character-to-character tagging. This novel training paradigm achieves the new state-of-the-art results across fine-tuned and zero-shot CSC benchmarks, outperforming previous counterparts by a large margin. Our method also learns transferable language representation when CSC is jointly trained with other tasks. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Factuality Detection using Machine Translation -- a Use Case for German  Clinical Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08827  
**Abstract:** Factuality can play an important role when automatically processing clinical text, as it makes a difference if particular symptoms are explicitly not present, possibly present, not mentioned, or affirmed. In most cases, a sufficient number of examples is necessary to handle such phenomena in a supervised machine learning setting. However, as clinical text might contain sensitive information, data cannot be easily shared. In the context of factuality detection, this work presents a simple solution using machine translation to translate English data to German to train a transformer-based factuality detection model. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** CMB: A Comprehensive Medical Benchmark in Chinese  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08833  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) provide a possibility to make a great breakthrough in medicine. The establishment of a standardized medical benchmark becomes a fundamental cornerstone to measure progression. However, medical environments in different regions have their local characteristics, e.g., the ubiquity and significance of traditional Chinese medicine within China. Therefore, merely translating English-based medical evaluation may result in \textit{contextual incongruities} to a local region. To solve the issue, we propose a localized medical benchmark called CMB, a Comprehensive Medical Benchmark in Chinese, designed and rooted entirely within the native Chinese linguistic and cultural framework. While traditional Chinese medicine is integral to this evaluation, it does not constitute its entirety. Using this benchmark, we have evaluated several prominent large-scale LLMs, including ChatGPT, GPT-4, dedicated Chinese LLMs, and LLMs specialized in the medical domain. It is worth noting that our benchmark is not devised as a leaderboard competition but as an instrument for self-assessment of model advancements. We hope this benchmark could facilitate the widespread adoption and enhancement of medical LLMs within China. Check details in \url{https://cmedbenchmark.llmzoo.com/}. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Language-enhanced RNR-Map: Querying Renderable Neural Radiance Field  maps with natural language  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08854  
**Abstract:** We present Le-RNR-Map, a Language-enhanced Renderable Neural Radiance map for Visual Navigation with natural language query prompts. The recently proposed RNR-Map employs a grid structure comprising latent codes positioned at each pixel. These latent codes, which are derived from image observation, enable: i) image rendering given a camera pose, since they are converted to Neural Radiance Field; ii) image navigation and localization with astonishing accuracy. On top of this, we enhance RNR-Map with CLIP-based embedding latent codes, allowing natural language search without additional label data. We evaluate the effectiveness of this map in single and multi-object searches. We also investigate its compatibility with a Large Language Model as an "affordance query resolver". Code and videos are available at https://intelligolabs.github.io/Le-RNR-Map/ 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Realistic Full-Body Tracking from Sparse Observations via Joint-Level  Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08855  
**Abstract:** To bridge the physical and virtual worlds for rapidly developed VR/AR applications, the ability to realistically drive 3D full-body avatars is of great significance. Although real-time body tracking with only the head-mounted displays (HMDs) and hand controllers is heavily under-constrained, a carefully designed end-to-end neural network is of great potential to solve the problem by learning from large-scale motion data. To this end, we propose a two-stage framework that can obtain accurate and smooth full-body motions with the three tracking signals of head and hands only. Our framework explicitly models the joint-level features in the first stage and utilizes them as spatiotemporal tokens for alternating spatial and temporal transformer blocks to capture joint-level correlations in the second stage. Furthermore, we design a set of loss terms to constrain the task of a high degree of freedom, such that we can exploit the potential of our joint-level modeling. With extensive experiments on the AMASS motion dataset and real-captured data, we validate the effectiveness of our designs and show our proposed method can achieve more accurate and smooth motion compared to existing approaches. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Text-Only Training for Visual Storytelling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08881  
**Abstract:** Visual storytelling aims to generate a narrative based on a sequence of images, necessitating both vision-language alignment and coherent story generation. Most existing solutions predominantly depend on paired image-text training data, which can be costly to collect and challenging to scale. To address this, we formulate visual storytelling as a visual-conditioned story generation problem and propose a text-only training method that separates the learning of cross-modality alignment and story generation. Our approach specifically leverages the cross-modality pre-trained CLIP model to integrate visual control into a story generator, trained exclusively on text data. Moreover, we devise a training-free visual condition planner that accounts for the temporal structure of the input image sequence while balancing global and local visual content. The distinctive advantage of requiring only text data for training enables our method to learn from external text story data, enhancing the generalization capability of visual storytelling. We conduct extensive experiments on the VIST benchmark, showcasing the effectiveness of our approach in both in-domain and cross-domain settings. Further evaluations on expression diversity and human assessment underscore the superiority of our method in terms of informativeness and robustness. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Point-aware Interaction and CNN-induced Refinement Network for RGB-D  Salient Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08930  
**Abstract:** By integrating complementary information from RGB image and depth map, the ability of salient object detection (SOD) for complex and challenging scenes can be improved. In recent years, the important role of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) in feature extraction and cross-modality interaction has been fully explored, but it is still insufficient in modeling global long-range dependencies of self-modality and cross-modality. To this end, we introduce CNNs-assisted Transformer architecture and propose a novel RGB-D SOD network with Point-aware Interaction and CNN-induced Refinement (PICR-Net). On the one hand, considering the prior correlation between RGB modality and depth modality, an attention-triggered cross-modality point-aware interaction (CmPI) module is designed to explore the feature interaction of different modalities with positional constraints. On the other hand, in order to alleviate the block effect and detail destruction problems brought by the Transformer naturally, we design a CNN-induced refinement (CNNR) unit for content refinement and supplementation. Extensive experiments on five RGB-D SOD datasets show that the proposed network achieves competitive results in both quantitative and qualitative comparisons. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Auxiliary Tasks Benefit 3D Skeleton-based Human Motion Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08942  
**Abstract:** Exploring spatial-temporal dependencies from observed motions is one of the core challenges of human motion prediction. Previous methods mainly focus on dedicated network structures to model the spatial and temporal dependencies. This paper considers a new direction by introducing a model learning framework with auxiliary tasks. In our auxiliary tasks, partial body joints' coordinates are corrupted by either masking or adding noise and the goal is to recover corrupted coordinates depending on the rest coordinates. To work with auxiliary tasks, we propose a novel auxiliary-adapted transformer, which can handle incomplete, corrupted motion data and achieve coordinate recovery via capturing spatial-temporal dependencies. Through auxiliary tasks, the auxiliary-adapted transformer is promoted to capture more comprehensive spatial-temporal dependencies among body joints' coordinates, leading to better feature learning. Extensive experimental results have shown that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods by remarkable margins of 7.2%, 3.7%, and 9.4% in terms of 3D mean per joint position error (MPJPE) on the Human3.6M, CMU Mocap, and 3DPW datasets, respectively. We also demonstrate that our method is more robust under data missing cases and noisy data cases. Code is available at https://github.com/MediaBrain-SJTU/AuxFormer. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Watch Your Steps: Local Image and Scene Editing by Text Instructions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08947  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models have enabled high-quality image generation and editing. We present a method to localize the desired edit region implicit in a text instruction. We leverage InstructPix2Pix (IP2P) and identify the discrepancy between IP2P predictions with and without the instruction. This discrepancy is referred to as the relevance map. The relevance map conveys the importance of changing each pixel to achieve the edits, and is used to to guide the modifications. This guidance ensures that the irrelevant pixels remain unchanged. Relevance maps are further used to enhance the quality of text-guided editing of 3D scenes in the form of neural radiance fields. A field is trained on relevance maps of training views, denoted as the relevance field, defining the 3D region within which modifications should be made. We perform iterative updates on the training views guided by rendered relevance maps from the relevance field. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on both image and NeRF editing tasks. Project page: https://ashmrz.github.io/WatchYourSteps/ 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Analysis of difference schemes for the Fokker-Planck angular diffusion  operator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08950  
**Abstract:** This paper is dedicated to the mathematical analysis of finite difference schemes for the angular diffusion operator present in the azimuth-independent Fokker-Planck equation. The study elucidates the reasons behind the lack of convergence in half range mode for certain widely recognized discrete ordinates methods, and establishes sets of sufficient conditions to ensure that the schemes achieve convergence of order $2$. In the process, interesting properties regarding Gaussian nodes and weights, which until now have remained unnoticed by mathematicians, naturally emerge. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Error analysis of a high-order fully discrete method for two-dimensional  time-fractional convection-diffusion equations exhibiting weak initial  singularity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08971  
**Abstract:** This study presents a novel high-order numerical method designed for solving the two-dimensional time-fractional convection-diffusion (TFCD) equation. The Caputo definition is employed to characterize the time-fractional derivative. A weak singularity at the initial time ($t=0$) is encountered in the considered problem, which is effectively managed by adopting a discretization approach for the time-fractional derivative, where Alikhanov's high-order L2-1$_\sigma$ formula is applied on a non-uniform fitted mesh, resulting in successful tackling of the singularity. A high-order two-dimensional compact operator is implemented to approximate the spatial variables. The alternating direction implicit (ADI) approach is then employed to solve the resulting system of equations by decomposing the two-dimensional problem into two separate one-dimensional problems. The theoretical analysis, encompassing both stability and convergence aspects, has been conducted comprehensively, and it has shown that method is convergent with an order $\mathcal O\left(N_t^{-\min\{3-\alpha,\theta\alpha,1+2\alpha,2+\alpha\}}+h_x^4+h_y^4\right)$, where $\alpha\in(0,1)$ represents the order of the fractional derivative, $N_t$ is the temporal discretization parameter and $h_x$ and $h_y$ represent spatial mesh widths. Moreover, the parameter $\theta$ is utilized in the construction of the fitted mesh. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Beam Retrieval: General End-to-End Retrieval for Multi-Hop Question  Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08973  
**Abstract:** Multi-hop QA involves finding multiple relevant passages and step-by-step reasoning to answer complex questions. While previous approaches have developed retrieval modules for selecting relevant passages, they face challenges in scenarios beyond two hops, owing to the limited performance of one-step methods and the failure of two-step methods when selecting irrelevant passages in earlier stages. In this work, we introduce Beam Retrieval, a general end-to-end retrieval framework for multi-hop QA. This approach maintains multiple partial hypotheses of relevant passages at each step, expanding the search space and reducing the risk of missing relevant passages. Moreover, Beam Retrieval jointly optimizes an encoder and two classification heads by minimizing the combined loss across all hops. To establish a complete QA system, we incorporate a supervised reader or a zero-shot GPT-3.5. Experimental results demonstrate that Beam Retrieval achieves a nearly 50% improvement compared with baselines on challenging MuSiQue-Ans, and it also surpasses all previous retrievers on HotpotQA and 2WikiMultiHopQA. Providing high-quality context, Beam Retrieval helps our supervised reader achieve new state-of-the-art performance and substantially improves (up to 28.8 points) the QA performance of zero-shot GPT-3.5. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Evaluation of really good grammatical error correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08982  
**Abstract:** Although rarely stated, in practice, Grammatical Error Correction (GEC) encompasses various models with distinct objectives, ranging from grammatical error detection to improving fluency. Traditional evaluation methods fail to fully capture the full range of system capabilities and objectives. Reference-based evaluations suffer from limitations in capturing the wide variety of possible correction and the biases introduced during reference creation and is prone to favor fixing local errors over overall text improvement. The emergence of large language models (LLMs) has further highlighted the shortcomings of these evaluation strategies, emphasizing the need for a paradigm shift in evaluation methodology. In the current study, we perform a comprehensive evaluation of various GEC systems using a recently published dataset of Swedish learner texts. The evaluation is performed using established evaluation metrics as well as human judges. We find that GPT-3 in a few-shot setting by far outperforms previous grammatical error correction systems for Swedish, a language comprising only 0.11% of its training data. We also found that current evaluation methods contain undesirable biases that a human evaluation is able to reveal. We suggest using human post-editing of GEC system outputs to analyze the amount of change required to reach native-level human performance on the task, and provide a dataset annotated with human post-edits and assessments of grammaticality, fluency and meaning preservation of GEC system outputs. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** FashionLOGO: Prompting Multimodal Large Language Models for Fashion Logo  Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09012  
**Abstract:** Logo embedding plays a crucial role in various e-commerce applications by facilitating image retrieval or recognition, such as intellectual property protection and product search. However, current methods treat logo embedding as a purely visual problem, which may limit their performance in real-world scenarios. A notable issue is that the textual knowledge embedded in logo images has not been adequately explored. Therefore, we propose a novel approach that leverages textual knowledge as an auxiliary to improve the robustness of logo embedding. The emerging Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in both visual and textual understanding and could become valuable visual assistants in understanding logo images. Inspired by this observation, our proposed method, FashionLOGO, aims to utilize MLLMs to enhance fashion logo embedding. We explore how MLLMs can improve logo embedding by prompting them to generate explicit textual knowledge through three types of prompts, including image OCR, brief captions, and detailed descriptions prompts, in a zero-shot setting. We adopt a cross-attention transformer to enable image embedding queries to learn supplementary knowledge from textual embeddings automatically. To reduce computational costs, we only use the image embedding model in the inference stage, similar to traditional inference pipelines. Our extensive experiments on three real-world datasets demonstrate that FashionLOGO learns generalized and robust logo embeddings, achieving state-of-the-art performance in all benchmark datasets. Furthermore, we conduct comprehensive ablation studies to demonstrate the performance improvements resulting from the introduction of MLLMs. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** SimFIR: A Simple Framework for Fisheye Image Rectification with  Self-supervised Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09040  
**Abstract:** In fisheye images, rich distinct distortion patterns are regularly distributed in the image plane. These distortion patterns are independent of the visual content and provide informative cues for rectification. To make the best of such rectification cues, we introduce SimFIR, a simple framework for fisheye image rectification based on self-supervised representation learning. Technically, we first split a fisheye image into multiple patches and extract their representations with a Vision Transformer (ViT). To learn fine-grained distortion representations, we then associate different image patches with their specific distortion patterns based on the fisheye model, and further subtly design an innovative unified distortion-aware pretext task for their learning. The transfer performance on the downstream rectification task is remarkably boosted, which verifies the effectiveness of the learned representations. Extensive experiments are conducted, and the quantitative and qualitative results demonstrate the superiority of our method over the state-of-the-art algorithms as well as its strong generalization ability on real-world fisheye images. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Edit Temporal-Consistent Videos with Image Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09091  
**Abstract:** Large-scale text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models have been extended for text-guided video editing, yielding impressive zero-shot video editing performance. Nonetheless, the generated videos usually show spatial irregularities and temporal inconsistencies as the temporal characteristics of videos have not been faithfully modeled. In this paper, we propose an elegant yet effective Temporal-Consistent Video Editing (TCVE) method, to mitigate the temporal inconsistency challenge for robust text-guided video editing. In addition to the utilization of a pretrained 2D Unet for spatial content manipulation, we establish a dedicated temporal Unet architecture to faithfully capture the temporal coherence of the input video sequences. Furthermore, to establish coherence and interrelation between the spatial-focused and temporal-focused components, a cohesive joint spatial-temporal modeling unit is formulated. This unit effectively interconnects the temporal Unet with the pretrained 2D Unet, thereby enhancing the temporal consistency of the generated video output while simultaneously preserving the capacity for video content manipulation. Quantitative experimental results and visualization results demonstrate that TCVE achieves state-of-the-art performance in both video temporal consistency and video editing capability, surpassing existing benchmarks in the field. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Learning Lightweight Object Detectors via Multi-Teacher Progressive  Distillation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09105  
**Abstract:** Resource-constrained perception systems such as edge computing and vision-for-robotics require vision models to be both accurate and lightweight in computation and memory usage. While knowledge distillation is a proven strategy to enhance the performance of lightweight classification models, its application to structured outputs like object detection and instance segmentation remains a complicated task, due to the variability in outputs and complex internal network modules involved in the distillation process. In this paper, we propose a simple yet surprisingly effective sequential approach to knowledge distillation that progressively transfers the knowledge of a set of teacher detectors to a given lightweight student. To distill knowledge from a highly accurate but complex teacher model, we construct a sequence of teachers to help the student gradually adapt. Our progressive strategy can be easily combined with existing detection distillation mechanisms to consistently maximize student performance in various settings. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to successfully distill knowledge from Transformer-based teacher detectors to convolution-based students, and unprecedentedly boost the performance of ResNet-50 based RetinaNet from 36.5% to 42.0% AP and Mask R-CNN from 38.2% to 42.5% AP on the MS COCO benchmark. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** MaScQA: A Question Answering Dataset for Investigating Materials Science  Knowledge of Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09115  
**Abstract:** Information extraction and textual comprehension from materials literature are vital for developing an exhaustive knowledge base that enables accelerated materials discovery. Language models have demonstrated their capability to answer domain-specific questions and retrieve information from knowledge bases. However, there are no benchmark datasets in the materials domain that can evaluate the understanding of the key concepts by these language models. In this work, we curate a dataset of 650 challenging questions from the materials domain that require the knowledge and skills of a materials student who has cleared their undergraduate degree. We classify these questions based on their structure and the materials science domain-based subcategories. Further, we evaluate the performance of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 models on solving these questions via zero-shot and chain of thought prompting. It is observed that GPT-4 gives the best performance (~62% accuracy) as compared to GPT-3.5. Interestingly, in contrast to the general observation, no significant improvement in accuracy is observed with the chain of thought prompting. To evaluate the limitations, we performed an error analysis, which revealed conceptual errors (~64%) as the major contributor compared to computational errors (~36%) towards the reduced performance of LLMs. We hope that the dataset and analysis performed in this work will promote further research in developing better materials science domain-specific LLMs and strategies for information extraction. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** ICAR: Image-based Complementary Auto Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09119  
**Abstract:** Scene-aware Complementary Item Retrieval (CIR) is a challenging task which requires to generate a set of compatible items across domains. Due to the subjectivity, it is difficult to set up a rigorous standard for both data collection and learning objectives. To address this challenging task, we propose a visual compatibility concept, composed of similarity (resembling in color, geometry, texture, and etc.) and complementarity (different items like table vs chair completing a group). Based on this notion, we propose a compatibility learning framework, a category-aware Flexible Bidirectional Transformer (FBT), for visual "scene-based set compatibility reasoning" with the cross-domain visual similarity input and auto-regressive complementary item generation. We introduce a "Flexible Bidirectional Transformer (FBT)" consisting of an encoder with flexible masking, a category prediction arm, and an auto-regressive visual embedding prediction arm. And the inputs for FBT are cross-domain visual similarity invariant embeddings, making this framework quite generalizable. Furthermore, our proposed FBT model learns the inter-object compatibility from a large set of scene images in a self-supervised way. Compared with the SOTA methods, this approach achieves up to 5.3% and 9.6% in FITB score and 22.3% and 31.8% SFID improvement on fashion and furniture, respectively. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Linearity of Relation Decoding in Transformer Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09124  
**Abstract:** Much of the knowledge encoded in transformer language models (LMs) may be expressed in terms of relations: relations between words and their synonyms, entities and their attributes, etc. We show that, for a subset of relations, this computation is well-approximated by a single linear transformation on the subject representation. Linear relation representations may be obtained by constructing a first-order approximation to the LM from a single prompt, and they exist for a variety of factual, commonsense, and linguistic relations. However, we also identify many cases in which LM predictions capture relational knowledge accurately, but this knowledge is not linearly encoded in their representations. Our results thus reveal a simple, interpretable, but heterogeneously deployed knowledge representation strategy in transformer LMs. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Characterizing Information Seeking Events in Health-Related Social  Discourse  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09156  
**Abstract:** Social media sites have become a popular platform for individuals to seek and share health information. Despite the progress in natural language processing for social media mining, a gap remains in analyzing health-related texts on social discourse in the context of events. Event-driven analysis can offer insights into different facets of healthcare at an individual and collective level, including treatment options, misconceptions, knowledge gaps, etc. This paper presents a paradigm to characterize health-related information-seeking in social discourse through the lens of events. Events here are board categories defined with domain experts that capture the trajectory of the treatment/medication. To illustrate the value of this approach, we analyze Reddit posts regarding medications for Opioid Use Disorder (OUD), a critical global health concern. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to define event categories for characterizing information-seeking in OUD social discourse. Guided by domain experts, we develop TREAT-ISE, a novel multilabel treatment information-seeking event dataset to analyze online discourse on an event-based framework. This dataset contains Reddit posts on information-seeking events related to recovery from OUD, where each post is annotated based on the type of events. We also establish a strong performance benchmark (77.4% F1 score) for the task by employing several machine learning and deep learning classifiers. Finally, we thoroughly investigate the performance and errors of ChatGPT on this task, providing valuable insights into the LLM's capabilities and ongoing characterization efforts. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** RatGPT: Turning online LLMs into Proxies for Malware Attacks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09183  
**Abstract:** The evolution of Generative AI and the capabilities of the newly released Large Language Models (LLMs) open new opportunities in software engineering. However, they also lead to new challenges in cybersecurity. Recently, researchers have shown the possibilities of using LLMs such as ChatGPT to generate malicious content that can directly be exploited or guide inexperienced hackers to weaponize tools and code. Those studies covered scenarios that still require the attacker in the middle of the loop. In this study, we leverage openly available plugins and use an LLM as proxy between the attacker and the victim. We deliver a proof-of-concept where ChatGPT is used for the dissemination of malicious software while evading detection, alongside establishing the communication to a command and control (C2) server to receive commands to interact with a victim's system. Finally, we present the general approach as well as essential elements in order to stay undetected and make the attack a success. This proof-of-concept highlights significant cybersecurity issues with openly available plugins and LLMs, which require the development of security guidelines, controls, and mitigation strategies. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** A Comparative Study of Text Embedding Models for Semantic Text  Similarity in Bug Reports  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09193  
**Abstract:** Bug reports are an essential aspect of software development, and it is crucial to identify and resolve them quickly to ensure the consistent functioning of software systems. Retrieving similar bug reports from an existing database can help reduce the time and effort required to resolve bugs. In this paper, we compared the effectiveness of semantic textual similarity methods for retrieving similar bug reports based on a similarity score. We explored several embedding models such as TF-IDF (Baseline), FastText, Gensim, BERT, and ADA. We used the Software Defects Data containing bug reports for various software projects to evaluate the performance of these models. Our experimental results showed that BERT generally outperformed the rest of the models regarding recall, followed by ADA, Gensim, FastText, and TFIDF. Our study provides insights into the effectiveness of different embedding methods for retrieving similar bug reports and highlights the impact of selecting the appropriate one for this task. Our code is available on GitHub. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Conversational Ontology Alignment with ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09217  
**Abstract:** This study evaluates the applicability and efficiency of ChatGPT for ontology alignment using a naive approach. ChatGPT's output is compared to the results of the Ontology Alignment Evaluation Initiative 2022 campaign using conference track ontologies. This comparison is intended to provide insights into the capabilities of a conversational large language model when used in a naive way for ontology matching, and to investigate the potential advantages and disadvantages of this approach. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** A review of technical factors to consider when designing neural networks  for semantic segmentation of Earth Observation imagery  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09221  
**Abstract:** Semantic segmentation (classification) of Earth Observation imagery is a crucial task in remote sensing. This paper presents a comprehensive review of technical factors to consider when designing neural networks for this purpose. The review focuses on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), and transformer models, discussing prominent design patterns for these ANN families and their implications for semantic segmentation. Common pre-processing techniques for ensuring optimal data preparation are also covered. These include methods for image normalization and chipping, as well as strategies for addressing data imbalance in training samples, and techniques for overcoming limited data, including augmentation techniques, transfer learning, and domain adaptation. By encompassing both the technical aspects of neural network design and the data-related considerations, this review provides researchers and practitioners with a comprehensive and up-to-date understanding of the factors involved in designing effective neural networks for semantic segmentation of Earth Observation imagery. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** MATLABER: Material-Aware Text-to-3D via LAtent BRDF auto-EncodeR  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09278  
**Abstract:** Based on powerful text-to-image diffusion models, text-to-3D generation has made significant progress in generating compelling geometry and appearance. However, existing methods still struggle to recover high-fidelity object materials, either only considering Lambertian reflectance, or failing to disentangle BRDF materials from the environment lights. In this work, we propose Material-Aware Text-to-3D via LAtent BRDF auto-EncodeR (\textbf{MATLABER}) that leverages a novel latent BRDF auto-encoder for material generation. We train this auto-encoder with large-scale real-world BRDF collections and ensure the smoothness of its latent space, which implicitly acts as a natural distribution of materials. During appearance modeling in text-to-3D generation, the latent BRDF embeddings, rather than BRDF parameters, are predicted via a material network. Through exhaustive experiments, our approach demonstrates the superiority over existing ones in generating realistic and coherent object materials. Moreover, high-quality materials naturally enable multiple downstream tasks such as relighting and material editing. Code and model will be publicly available at \url{https://sheldontsui.github.io/projects/Matlaber}. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** DiffLLE: Diffusion-guided Domain Calibration for Unsupervised Low-light  Image Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09279  
**Abstract:** Existing unsupervised low-light image enhancement methods lack enough effectiveness and generalization in practical applications. We suppose this is because of the absence of explicit supervision and the inherent gap between real-world scenarios and the training data domain. In this paper, we develop Diffusion-based domain calibration to realize more robust and effective unsupervised Low-Light Enhancement, called DiffLLE. Since the diffusion model performs impressive denoising capability and has been trained on massive clean images, we adopt it to bridge the gap between the real low-light domain and training degradation domain, while providing efficient priors of real-world content for unsupervised models. Specifically, we adopt a naive unsupervised enhancement algorithm to realize preliminary restoration and design two zero-shot plug-and-play modules based on diffusion model to improve generalization and effectiveness. The Diffusion-guided Degradation Calibration (DDC) module narrows the gap between real-world and training low-light degradation through diffusion-based domain calibration and a lightness enhancement curve, which makes the enhancement model perform robustly even in sophisticated wild degradation. Due to the limited enhancement effect of the unsupervised model, we further develop the Fine-grained Target domain Distillation (FTD) module to find a more visual-friendly solution space. It exploits the priors of the pre-trained diffusion model to generate pseudo-references, which shrinks the preliminary restored results from a coarse normal-light domain to a finer high-quality clean field, addressing the lack of strong explicit supervision for unsupervised methods. Benefiting from these, our approach even outperforms some supervised methods by using only a simple unsupervised baseline. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior effectiveness of the proposed DiffLLE. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** RFDforFin: Robust Deep Forgery Detection for GAN-generated Fingerprint  Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09285  
**Abstract:** With the rapid development of the image generation technologies, the malicious abuses of the GAN-generated fingerprint images poses a significant threat to the public safety in certain circumstances. Although the existing universal deep forgery detection approach can be applied to detect the fake fingerprint images, they are easily attacked and have poor robustness. Meanwhile, there is no specifically designed deep forgery detection method for fingerprint images. In this paper, we propose the first deep forgery detection approach for fingerprint images, which combines unique ridge features of fingerprint and generation artifacts of the GAN-generated images, to the best of our knowledge. Specifically, we firstly construct a ridge stream, which exploits the grayscale variations along the ridges to extract unique fingerprint-specific features. Then, we construct a generation artifact stream, in which the FFT-based spectrums of the input fingerprint images are exploited, to extract more robust generation artifact features. At last, the unique ridge features and generation artifact features are fused for binary classification (\textit{i.e.}, real or fake). Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed approach is effective and robust with low complexities. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** V2A-Mapper: A Lightweight Solution for Vision-to-Audio Generation by  Connecting Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09300  
**Abstract:** Building artificial intelligence (AI) systems on top of a set of foundation models (FMs) is becoming a new paradigm in AI research. Their representative and generative abilities learnt from vast amounts of data can be easily adapted and transferred to a wide range of downstream tasks without extra training from scratch. However, leveraging FMs in cross-modal generation remains under-researched when audio modality is involved. On the other hand, automatically generating semantically-relevant sound from visual input is an important problem in cross-modal generation studies. To solve this vision-to-audio (V2A) generation problem, existing methods tend to design and build complex systems from scratch using modestly sized datasets. In this paper, we propose a lightweight solution to this problem by leveraging foundation models, specifically CLIP, CLAP, and AudioLDM. We first investigate the domain gap between the latent space of the visual CLIP and the auditory CLAP models. Then we propose a simple yet effective mapper mechanism (V2A-Mapper) to bridge the domain gap by translating the visual input between CLIP and CLAP spaces. Conditioned on the translated CLAP embedding, pretrained audio generative FM AudioLDM is adopted to produce high-fidelity and visually-aligned sound. Compared to previous approaches, our method only requires a quick training of the V2A-Mapper. We further analyze and conduct extensive experiments on the choice of the V2A-Mapper and show that a generative mapper is better at fidelity and variability (FD) while a regression mapper is slightly better at relevance (CS). Both objective and subjective evaluation on two V2A datasets demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method compared to current state-of-the-art approaches - trained with 86% fewer parameters but achieving 53% and 19% improvement in FD and CS, respectively. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Human Part-wise 3D Motion Context Learning for Sign Language Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09305  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose P3D, the human part-wise motion context learning framework for sign language recognition. Our main contributions lie in two dimensions: learning the part-wise motion context and employing the pose ensemble to utilize 2D and 3D pose jointly. First, our empirical observation implies that part-wise context encoding benefits the performance of sign language recognition. While previous methods of sign language recognition learned motion context from the sequence of the entire pose, we argue that such methods cannot exploit part-specific motion context. In order to utilize part-wise motion context, we propose the alternating combination of a part-wise encoding Transformer (PET) and a whole-body encoding Transformer (WET). PET encodes the motion contexts from a part sequence, while WET merges them into a unified context. By learning part-wise motion context, our P3D achieves superior performance on WLASL compared to previous state-of-the-art methods. Second, our framework is the first to ensemble 2D and 3D poses for sign language recognition. Since the 3D pose holds rich motion context and depth information to distinguish the words, our P3D outperformed the previous state-of-the-art methods employing a pose ensemble. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** DiffDis: Empowering Generative Diffusion Model with Cross-Modal  Discrimination Capability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09306  
**Abstract:** Recently, large-scale diffusion models, e.g., Stable diffusion and DallE2, have shown remarkable results on image synthesis. On the other hand, large-scale cross-modal pre-trained models (e.g., CLIP, ALIGN, and FILIP) are competent for various downstream tasks by learning to align vision and language embeddings. In this paper, we explore the possibility of jointly modeling generation and discrimination. Specifically, we propose DiffDis to unify the cross-modal generative and discriminative pretraining into one single framework under the diffusion process. DiffDis first formulates the image-text discriminative problem as a generative diffusion process of the text embedding from the text encoder conditioned on the image. Then, we propose a novel dual-stream network architecture, which fuses the noisy text embedding with the knowledge of latent images from different scales for image-text discriminative learning. Moreover, the generative and discriminative tasks can efficiently share the image-branch network structure in the multi-modality model. Benefiting from diffusion-based unified training, DiffDis achieves both better generation ability and cross-modal semantic alignment in one architecture. Experimental results show that DiffDis outperforms single-task models on both the image generation and the image-text discriminative tasks, e.g., 1.65% improvement on average accuracy of zero-shot classification over 12 datasets and 2.42 improvement on FID of zero-shot image synthesis. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Retro-FPN: Retrospective Feature Pyramid Network for Point Cloud  Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09314  
**Abstract:** Learning per-point semantic features from the hierarchical feature pyramid is essential for point cloud semantic segmentation. However, most previous methods suffered from ambiguous region features or failed to refine per-point features effectively, which leads to information loss and ambiguous semantic identification. To resolve this, we propose Retro-FPN to model the per-point feature prediction as an explicit and retrospective refining process, which goes through all the pyramid layers to extract semantic features explicitly for each point. Its key novelty is a retro-transformer for summarizing semantic contexts from the previous layer and accordingly refining the features in the current stage. In this way, the categorization of each point is conditioned on its local semantic pattern. Specifically, the retro-transformer consists of a local cross-attention block and a semantic gate unit. The cross-attention serves to summarize the semantic pattern retrospectively from the previous layer. And the gate unit carefully incorporates the summarized contexts and refines the current semantic features. Retro-FPN is a pluggable neural network that applies to hierarchical decoders. By integrating Retro-FPN with three representative backbones, including both point-based and voxel-based methods, we show that Retro-FPN can significantly improve performance over state-of-the-art backbones. Comprehensive experiments on widely used benchmarks can justify the effectiveness of our design. The source is available at https://github.com/AllenXiangX/Retro-FPN 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Audio-Visual Glance Network for Efficient Video Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09322  
**Abstract:** Deep learning has made significant strides in video understanding tasks, but the computation required to classify lengthy and massive videos using clip-level video classifiers remains impractical and prohibitively expensive. To address this issue, we propose Audio-Visual Glance Network (AVGN), which leverages the commonly available audio and visual modalities to efficiently process the spatio-temporally important parts of a video. AVGN firstly divides the video into snippets of image-audio clip pair and employs lightweight unimodal encoders to extract global visual features and audio features. To identify the important temporal segments, we use an Audio-Visual Temporal Saliency Transformer (AV-TeST) that estimates the saliency scores of each frame. To further increase efficiency in the spatial dimension, AVGN processes only the important patches instead of the whole images. We use an Audio-Enhanced Spatial Patch Attention (AESPA) module to produce a set of enhanced coarse visual features, which are fed to a policy network that produces the coordinates of the important patches. This approach enables us to focus only on the most important spatio-temporally parts of the video, leading to more efficient video recognition. Moreover, we incorporate various training techniques and multi-modal feature fusion to enhance the robustness and effectiveness of our AVGN. By combining these strategies, our AVGN sets new state-of-the-art performance in multiple video recognition benchmarks while achieving faster processing speed. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** KESDT: knowledge enhanced shallow and deep Transformer for detecting  adverse drug reactions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09329  
**Abstract:** Adverse drug reaction (ADR) detection is an essential task in the medical field, as ADRs have a gravely detrimental impact on patients' health and the healthcare system. Due to a large number of people sharing information on social media platforms, an increasing number of efforts focus on social media data to carry out effective ADR detection. Despite having achieved impressive performance, the existing methods of ADR detection still suffer from three main challenges. Firstly, researchers have consistently ignored the interaction between domain keywords and other words in the sentence. Secondly, social media datasets suffer from the challenges of low annotated data. Thirdly, the issue of sample imbalance is commonly observed in social media datasets. To solve these challenges, we propose the Knowledge Enhanced Shallow and Deep Transformer(KESDT) model for ADR detection. Specifically, to cope with the first issue, we incorporate the domain keywords into the Transformer model through a shallow fusion manner, which enables the model to fully exploit the interactive relationships between domain keywords and other words in the sentence. To overcome the low annotated data, we integrate the synonym sets into the Transformer model through a deep fusion manner, which expands the size of the samples. To mitigate the impact of sample imbalance, we replace the standard cross entropy loss function with the focal loss function for effective model training. We conduct extensive experiments on three public datasets including TwiMed, Twitter, and CADEC. The proposed KESDT outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on F1 values, with relative improvements of 4.87%, 47.83%, and 5.73% respectively, which demonstrates the effectiveness of our proposed KESDT. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Accelerated materials language processing enabled by GPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09354  
**Abstract:** Materials language processing (MLP) is one of the key facilitators of materials science research, as it enables the extraction of structured information from massive materials science literature. Prior works suggested high-performance MLP models for text classification, named entity recognition (NER), and extractive question answering (QA), which require complex model architecture, exhaustive fine-tuning and a large number of human-labelled datasets. In this study, we develop generative pretrained transformer (GPT)-enabled pipelines where the complex architectures of prior MLP models are replaced with strategic designs of prompt engineering. First, we develop a GPT-enabled document classification method for screening relevant documents, achieving comparable accuracy and reliability compared to prior models, with only small dataset. Secondly, for NER task, we design an entity-centric prompts, and learning few-shot of them improved the performance on most of entities in three open datasets. Finally, we develop an GPT-enabled extractive QA model, which provides improved performance and shows the possibility of automatically correcting annotations. While our findings confirm the potential of GPT-enabled MLP models as well as their value in terms of reliability and practicability, our scientific methods and systematic approach are applicable to any materials science domain to accelerate the information extraction of scientific literature. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** A tailored Handwritten-Text-Recognition System for Medieval Latin  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09368  
**Abstract:** The Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities aims to digitize its Medieval Latin Dictionary. This dictionary entails record cards referring to lemmas in medieval Latin, a low-resource language. A crucial step of the digitization process is the Handwritten Text Recognition (HTR) of the handwritten lemmas found on these record cards. In our work, we introduce an end-to-end pipeline, tailored to the medieval Latin dictionary, for locating, extracting, and transcribing the lemmas. We employ two state-of-the-art (SOTA) image segmentation models to prepare the initial data set for the HTR task. Furthermore, we experiment with different transformer-based models and conduct a set of experiments to explore the capabilities of different combinations of vision encoders with a GPT-2 decoder. Additionally, we also apply extensive data augmentation resulting in a highly competitive model. The best-performing setup achieved a Character Error Rate (CER) of 0.015, which is even superior to the commercial Google Cloud Vision model, and shows more stable performance. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Single Frame Semantic Segmentation Using Multi-Modal Spherical Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09369  
**Abstract:** In recent years, the research community has shown a lot of interest to panoramic images that offer a 360-degree directional perspective. Multiple data modalities can be fed, and complimentary characteristics can be utilized for more robust and rich scene interpretation based on semantic segmentation, to fully realize the potential. Existing research, however, mostly concentrated on pinhole RGB-X semantic segmentation. In this study, we propose a transformer-based cross-modal fusion architecture to bridge the gap between multi-modal fusion and omnidirectional scene perception. We employ distortion-aware modules to address extreme object deformations and panorama distortions that result from equirectangular representation. Additionally, we conduct cross-modal interactions for feature rectification and information exchange before merging the features in order to communicate long-range contexts for bi-modal and tri-modal feature streams. In thorough tests using combinations of four different modality types in three indoor panoramic-view datasets, our technique achieved state-of-the-art mIoU performance: 60.60% on Stanford2D3DS (RGB-HHA), 71.97% Structured3D (RGB-D-N), and 35.92% Matterport3D (RGB-D). We plan to release all codes and trained models soon. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** TrOMR:Transformer-Based Polyphonic Optical Music Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09370  
**Abstract:** Optical Music Recognition (OMR) is an important technology in music and has been researched for a long time. Previous approaches for OMR are usually based on CNN for image understanding and RNN for music symbol classification. In this paper, we propose a transformer-based approach with excellent global perceptual capability for end-to-end polyphonic OMR, called TrOMR. We also introduce a novel consistency loss function and a reasonable approach for data annotation to improve recognition accuracy for complex music scores. Extensive experiments demonstrate that TrOMR outperforms current OMR methods, especially in real-world scenarios. We also develop a TrOMR system and build a camera scene dataset for full-page music scores in real-world. The code and datasets will be made available for reproducibility. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Which Transformer to Favor: A Comparative Analysis of Efficiency in  Vision Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09372  
**Abstract:** The growing popularity of Vision Transformers as the go-to models for image classification has led to an explosion of architectural modifications claiming to be more efficient than the original ViT. However, a wide diversity of experimental conditions prevents a fair comparison between all of them, based solely on their reported results. To address this gap in comparability, we conduct a comprehensive analysis of more than 30 models to evaluate the efficiency of vision transformers and related architectures, considering various performance metrics. Our benchmark provides a comparable baseline across the landscape of efficiency-oriented transformers, unveiling a plethora of surprising insights. For example, we discover that ViT is still Pareto optimal across multiple efficiency metrics, despite the existence of several alternative approaches claiming to be more efficient. Results also indicate that hybrid attention-CNN models fare particularly well when it comes to low inference memory and number of parameters, and also that it is better to scale the model size, than the image size. Furthermore, we uncover a strong positive correlation between the number of FLOPS and the training memory, which enables the estimation of required VRAM from theoretical measurements alone. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Label-Free Event-based Object Recognition via Joint Learning with Image  Reconstruction from Events  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09383  
**Abstract:** Recognizing objects from sparse and noisy events becomes extremely difficult when paired images and category labels do not exist. In this paper, we study label-free event-based object recognition where category labels and paired images are not available. To this end, we propose a joint formulation of object recognition and image reconstruction in a complementary manner. Our method first reconstructs images from events and performs object recognition through Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP), enabling better recognition through a rich context of images. Since the category information is essential in reconstructing images, we propose category-guided attraction loss and category-agnostic repulsion loss to bridge the textual features of predicted categories and the visual features of reconstructed images using CLIP. Moreover, we introduce a reliable data sampling strategy and local-global reconstruction consistency to boost joint learning of two tasks. To enhance the accuracy of prediction and quality of reconstruction, we also propose a prototype-based approach using unpaired images. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method and its extensibility for zero-shot object recognition. Our project code is available at \url{https://github.com/Chohoonhee/Ev-LaFOR}. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** DReg-NeRF: Deep Registration for Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09386  
**Abstract:** Although Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) is popular in the computer vision community recently, registering multiple NeRFs has yet to gain much attention. Unlike the existing work, NeRF2NeRF, which is based on traditional optimization methods and needs human annotated keypoints, we propose DReg-NeRF to solve the NeRF registration problem on object-centric scenes without human intervention. After training NeRF models, our DReg-NeRF first extracts features from the occupancy grid in NeRF. Subsequently, our DReg-NeRF utilizes a transformer architecture with self-attention and cross-attention layers to learn the relations between pairwise NeRF blocks. In contrast to state-of-the-art (SOTA) point cloud registration methods, the decoupled correspondences are supervised by surface fields without any ground truth overlapping labels. We construct a novel view synthesis dataset with 1,700+ 3D objects obtained from Objaverse to train our network. When evaluated on the test set, our proposed method beats the SOTA point cloud registration methods by a large margin, with a mean $\text{RPE}=9.67^{\circ}$ and a mean $\text{RTE}=0.038$. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Diffusion Models for Image Restoration and Enhancement -- A  Comprehensive Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09388  
**Abstract:** Image restoration (IR) has been an indispensable and challenging task in the low-level vision field, which strives to improve the subjective quality of images distorted by various forms of degradation. Recently, the diffusion model has achieved significant advancements in the visual generation of AIGC, thereby raising an intuitive question, "whether diffusion model can boost image restoration". To answer this, some pioneering studies attempt to integrate diffusion models into the image restoration task, resulting in superior performances than previous GAN-based methods. Despite that, a comprehensive and enlightening survey on diffusion model-based image restoration remains scarce. In this paper, we are the first to present a comprehensive review of recent diffusion model-based methods on image restoration, encompassing the learning paradigm, conditional strategy, framework design, modeling strategy, and evaluation. Concretely, we first introduce the background of the diffusion model briefly and then present two prevalent workflows that exploit diffusion models in image restoration. Subsequently, we classify and emphasize the innovative designs using diffusion models for both IR and blind/real-world IR, intending to inspire future development. To evaluate existing methods thoroughly, we summarize the commonly-used dataset, implementation details, and evaluation metrics. Additionally, we present the objective comparison for open-sourced methods across three tasks, including image super-resolution, deblurring, and inpainting. Ultimately, informed by the limitations in existing works, we propose five potential and challenging directions for the future research of diffusion model-based IR, including sampling efficiency, model compression, distortion simulation and estimation, distortion invariant learning, and framework design. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Attention Calibration for Transformer-based Sequential Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09419  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based sequential recommendation (SR) has been booming in recent years, with the self-attention mechanism as its key component. Self-attention has been widely believed to be able to effectively select those informative and relevant items from a sequence of interacted items for next-item prediction via learning larger attention weights for these items. However, this may not always be true in reality. Our empirical analysis of some representative Transformer-based SR models reveals that it is not uncommon for large attention weights to be assigned to less relevant items, which can result in inaccurate recommendations. Through further in-depth analysis, we find two factors that may contribute to such inaccurate assignment of attention weights: sub-optimal position encoding and noisy input. To this end, in this paper, we aim to address this significant yet challenging gap in existing works. To be specific, we propose a simple yet effective framework called Attention Calibration for Transformer-based Sequential Recommendation (AC-TSR). In AC-TSR, a novel spatial calibrator and adversarial calibrator are designed respectively to directly calibrates those incorrectly assigned attention weights. The former is devised to explicitly capture the spatial relationships (i.e., order and distance) among items for more precise calculation of attention weights. The latter aims to redistribute the attention weights based on each item's contribution to the next-item prediction. AC-TSR is readily adaptable and can be seamlessly integrated into various existing transformer-based SR models. Extensive experimental results on four benchmark real-world datasets demonstrate the superiority of our proposed ACTSR via significant recommendation performance enhancements. The source code is available at https://github.com/AIM-SE/AC-TSR. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** MonoNeRD: NeRF-like Representations for Monocular 3D Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09421  
**Abstract:** In the field of monocular 3D detection, it is common practice to utilize scene geometric clues to enhance the detector's performance. However, many existing works adopt these clues explicitly such as estimating a depth map and back-projecting it into 3D space. This explicit methodology induces sparsity in 3D representations due to the increased dimensionality from 2D to 3D, and leads to substantial information loss, especially for distant and occluded objects. To alleviate this issue, we propose MonoNeRD, a novel detection framework that can infer dense 3D geometry and occupancy. Specifically, we model scenes with Signed Distance Functions (SDF), facilitating the production of dense 3D representations. We treat these representations as Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) and then employ volume rendering to recover RGB images and depth maps. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first to introduce volume rendering for M3D, and demonstrates the potential of implicit reconstruction for image-based 3D perception. Extensive experiments conducted on the KITTI-3D benchmark and Waymo Open Dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of MonoNeRD. Codes are available at https://github.com/cskkxjk/MonoNeRD. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Transformer-based Detection of Microorganismson High-Resolution Petri  Dish Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09436  
**Abstract:** Many medical or pharmaceutical processes have strict guidelines regarding continuous hygiene monitoring. This often involves the labor-intensive task of manually counting microorganisms in Petri dishes by trained personnel. Automation attempts often struggle due to major challenges: significant scaling differences, low separation, low contrast, etc. To address these challenges, we introduce AttnPAFPN, a high-resolution detection pipeline that leverages a novel transformer variation, the efficient-global self-attention mechanism. Our streamlined approach can be easily integrated in almost any multi-scale object detection pipeline. In a comprehensive evaluation on the publicly available AGAR dataset, we demonstrate the superior accuracy of our network over the current state-of-the-art. In order to demonstrate the task-independent performance of our approach, we perform further experiments on COCO and LIVECell datasets. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** BioMedGPT: Open Multimodal Generative Pre-trained Transformer for  BioMedicine  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09442  
**Abstract:** Foundation models (FMs) have exhibited remarkable performance across a wide range of downstream tasks in various domains. Nevertheless, general-purpose FMs often face challenges when confronted with domain-specific problems, due to their limited access to the proprietary training data in a particular domain. In life science, a large portion of biomedical knowledge is encapsulated within heterogeneous biological data, such as molecular structures, wet-lab experiment results, and knowledge bases, which exhibit significant modality gaps with human natural language. In this paper, we introduce BioMedGPT, an open multimodal generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) for biomedicine, to bridge the gap between biomedical data and natural language. BioMedGPT allows users to easily "communicate" with various biological modalities through free text, which is the first of its kind. BioMedGPT aligns different biological modalities with the text modality via a large generative language model, namely, BioMedGPT-LM. We publish BioMedGPT-10B, which unifies the feature spaces of molecules, proteins, and natural language via encoding and alignment. Through fine-tuning, BioMedGPT-10B outperforms or is on par with human and significantly larger general-purpose foundation models on the biomedical QA task. It also demonstrates promising performance in the molecule QA and protein QA tasks, which could greatly accelerate the discovery of new drugs and therapeutic targets. In addition, BioMedGPT-LM-7B is the first large generative language model based on Llama2 in the biomedical domain, therefore is commercial friendly. Both BioMedGPT-10B and BioMedGPT-LM-7B are open-sourced to the research community. We also publish the datasets that are meticulously curated for the alignment of multi-modalities, i.e., PubChemQA and UniProtQA. All the models, codes, and datasets are publicly available. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Exploring Sampling Techniques for Generating Melodies with a Transformer  Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09454  
**Abstract:** Research in natural language processing has demonstrated that the quality of generations from trained autoregressive language models is significantly influenced by the used sampling strategy. In this study, we investigate the impact of different sampling techniques on musical qualities such as diversity and structure. To accomplish this, we train a high-capacity transformer model on a vast collection of highly-structured Irish folk melodies and analyze the musical qualities of the samples generated using distribution truncation sampling techniques. Specifically, we use nucleus sampling, the recently proposed "typical sampling", and conventional ancestral sampling. We evaluate the effect of these sampling strategies in two scenarios: optimal circumstances with a well-calibrated model and suboptimal circumstances where we systematically degrade the model's performance. We assess the generated samples using objective and subjective evaluations. We discover that probability truncation techniques may restrict diversity and structural patterns in optimal circumstances, but may also produce more musical samples in suboptimal circumstances. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Vision Relation Transformer for Unbiased Scene Graph Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09472  
**Abstract:** Recent years have seen a growing interest in Scene Graph Generation (SGG), a comprehensive visual scene understanding task that aims to predict entity relationships using a relation encoder-decoder pipeline stacked on top of an object encoder-decoder backbone. Unfortunately, current SGG methods suffer from an information loss regarding the entities local-level cues during the relation encoding process. To mitigate this, we introduce the Vision rElation TransfOrmer (VETO), consisting of a novel local-level entity relation encoder. We further observe that many existing SGG methods claim to be unbiased, but are still biased towards either head or tail classes. To overcome this bias, we introduce a Mutually Exclusive ExperT (MEET) learning strategy that captures important relation features without bias towards head or tail classes. Experimental results on the VG and GQA datasets demonstrate that VETO + MEET boosts the predictive performance by up to 47 percentage over the state of the art while being 10 times smaller. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Predictive Authoring for Brazilian Portuguese Augmentative and  Alternative Communication  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09497  
**Abstract:** Individuals with complex communication needs (CCN) often rely on augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) systems to have conversations and communique their wants. Such systems allow message authoring by arranging pictograms in sequence. However, the difficulty of finding the desired item to complete a sentence can increase as the user's vocabulary increases. This paper proposes using BERTimbau, a Brazilian Portuguese version of BERT, for pictogram prediction in AAC systems. To finetune BERTimbau, we constructed an AAC corpus for Brazilian Portuguese to use as a training corpus. We tested different approaches to representing a pictogram for prediction: as a word (using pictogram captions), as a concept (using a dictionary definition), and as a set of synonyms (using related terms). We also evaluated the usage of images for pictogram prediction. The results demonstrate that using embeddings computed from the pictograms' caption, synonyms, or definitions have a similar performance. Using synonyms leads to lower perplexity, but using captions leads to the highest accuracies. This paper provides insight into how to represent a pictogram for prediction using a BERT-like model and the potential of using images for pictogram prediction. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** Transitivity-Preserving Graph Representation Learning for Bridging Local  Connectivity and Role-based Similarity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09517  
**Abstract:** Graph representation learning (GRL) methods, such as graph neural networks and graph transformer models, have been successfully used to analyze graph-structured data, mainly focusing on node classification and link prediction tasks. However, the existing studies mostly only consider local connectivity while ignoring long-range connectivity and the roles of nodes. In this paper, we propose Unified Graph Transformer Networks (UGT) that effectively integrate local and global structural information into fixed-length vector representations. First, UGT learns local structure by identifying the local substructures and aggregating features of the $k$-hop neighborhoods of each node. Second, we construct virtual edges, bridging distant nodes with structural similarity to capture the long-range dependencies. Third, UGT learns unified representations through self-attention, encoding structural distance and $p$-step transition probability between node pairs. Furthermore, we propose a self-supervised learning task that effectively learns transition probability to fuse local and global structural features, which could then be transferred to other downstream tasks. Experimental results on real-world benchmark datasets over various downstream tasks showed that UGT significantly outperformed baselines that consist of state-of-the-art models. In addition, UGT reaches the expressive power of the third-order Weisfeiler-Lehman isomorphism test (3d-WL) in distinguishing non-isomorphic graph pairs. The source code is available at https://github.com/NSLab-CUK/Unified-Graph-Transformer. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Denoising Diffusion for 3D Hand Pose Estimation from Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09523  
**Abstract:** Hand pose estimation from a single image has many applications. However, approaches to full 3D body pose estimation are typically trained on day-to-day activities or actions. As such, detailed hand-to-hand interactions are poorly represented, especially during motion. We see this in the failure cases of techniques such as OpenPose or MediaPipe. However, accurate hand pose estimation is crucial for many applications where the global body motion is less important than accurate hand pose estimation. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** WizardMath: Empowering Mathematical Reasoning for Large Language Models  via Reinforced Evol-Instruct  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09583  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, have shown remarkable performance in natural language processing (NLP) tasks, including challenging mathematical reasoning. However, most existing open-source models are only pre-trained on large-scale internet data and without math-related optimization. In this paper, we present WizardMath, which enhances the mathematical reasoning abilities of Llama-2, by applying our proposed Reinforcement Learning from Evol-Instruct Feedback (RLEIF) method to the domain of math. Through extensive experiments on two mathematical reasoning benchmarks, namely GSM8k and MATH, we reveal the extraordinary capabilities of our model. WizardMath surpasses all other open-source LLMs by a substantial margin. Furthermore, our model even outperforms ChatGPT-3.5, Claude Instant-1, PaLM-2 and Minerva on GSM8k, simultaneously surpasses Text-davinci-002, PaLM-1 and GPT-3 on MATH. More details and model weights are public at https://github.com/nlpxucan/WizardLM and https://huggingface.co/WizardLM. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** O^2-Recon: Completing 3D Reconstruction of Occluded Objects in the Scene  with a Pre-trained 2D Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09591  
**Abstract:** Occlusion is a common issue in 3D reconstruction from RGB-D videos, often blocking the complete reconstruction of objects and presenting an ongoing problem. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, empowered by a 2D diffusion-based in-painting model, to reconstruct complete surfaces for the hidden parts of objects. Specifically, we utilize a pre-trained diffusion model to fill in the hidden areas of 2D images. Then we use these in-painted images to optimize a neural implicit surface representation for each instance for 3D reconstruction. Since creating the in-painting masks needed for this process is tricky, we adopt a human-in-the-loop strategy that involves very little human engagement to generate high-quality masks. Moreover, some parts of objects can be totally hidden because the videos are usually shot from limited perspectives. To ensure recovering these invisible areas, we develop a cascaded network architecture for predicting signed distance field, making use of different frequency bands of positional encoding and maintaining overall smoothness. Besides the commonly used rendering loss, Eikonal loss, and silhouette loss, we adopt a CLIP-based semantic consistency loss to guide the surface from unseen camera angles. Experiments on ScanNet scenes show that our proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and completeness in object-level reconstruction from scene-level RGB-D videos. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** StableVideo: Text-driven Consistency-aware Diffusion Video Editing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09592  
**Abstract:** Diffusion-based methods can generate realistic images and videos, but they struggle to edit existing objects in a video while preserving their appearance over time. This prevents diffusion models from being applied to natural video editing in practical scenarios. In this paper, we tackle this problem by introducing temporal dependency to existing text-driven diffusion models, which allows them to generate consistent appearance for the edited objects. Specifically, we develop a novel inter-frame propagation mechanism for diffusion video editing, which leverages the concept of layered representations to propagate the appearance information from one frame to the next. We then build up a text-driven video editing framework based on this mechanism, namely StableVideo, which can achieve consistency-aware video editing. Extensive experiments demonstrate the strong editing capability of our approach. Compared with state-of-the-art video editing methods, our approach shows superior qualitative and quantitative results. Our code is available at \href{https://github.com/rese1f/StableVideo}{this https URL}. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** Language-Guided Diffusion Model for Visual Grounding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09599  
**Abstract:** Visual grounding (VG) tasks involve explicit cross-modal alignment, as semantically corresponding image regions are to be located for the language phrases provided. Existing approaches complete such visual-text reasoning in a single-step manner. Their performance causes high demands on large-scale anchors and over-designed multi-modal fusion modules based on human priors, leading to complicated frameworks that may be difficult to train and overfit to specific scenarios. Even worse, such once-for-all reasoning mechanisms are incapable of refining boxes continuously to enhance query-region matching. In contrast, in this paper, we formulate an iterative reasoning process by denoising diffusion modeling. Specifically, we propose a language-guided diffusion framework for visual grounding, LG-DVG, which trains the model to progressively reason queried object boxes by denoising a set of noisy boxes with the language guide. To achieve this, LG-DVG gradually perturbs query-aligned ground truth boxes to noisy ones and reverses this process step by step, conditional on query semantics. Extensive experiments for our proposed framework on five widely used datasets validate the superior performance of solving visual grounding, a cross-modal alignment task, in a generative way. The source codes are available at \url{https://github.com/iQua/vgbase/tree/DiffusionVG}. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Red-Teaming Large Language Models using Chain of Utterances for  Safety-Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09662  
**Abstract:** Larger language models (LLMs) have taken the world by storm with their massive multi-tasking capabilities simply by optimizing over a next-word prediction objective. With the emergence of their properties and encoded knowledge, the risk of LLMs producing harmful outputs increases, making them unfit for scalable deployment for the public. In this work, we propose a new safety evaluation benchmark RED-EVAL that carries out red-teaming. We show that even widely deployed models are susceptible to the Chain of Utterances-based (CoU) prompting, jailbreaking closed source LLM-based systems such as GPT-4 and ChatGPT to unethically respond to more than 65% and 73% of harmful queries. We also demonstrate the consistency of the RED-EVAL across 8 open-source LLMs in generating harmful responses in more than 86% of the red-teaming attempts. Next, we propose RED-INSTRUCT--An approach for the safety alignment of LLMs. It constitutes two phases: 1) HARMFULQA data collection: Leveraging CoU prompting, we collect a dataset that consists of 1.9K harmful questions covering a wide range of topics, 9.5K safe and 7.3K harmful conversations from ChatGPT; 2) SAFE-ALIGN: We demonstrate how the conversational dataset can be used for the safety alignment of LLMs by minimizing the negative log-likelihood over helpful responses and penalizing over harmful responses by gradient accent over sample loss. Our model STARLING, a fine-tuned Vicuna-7B, is observed to be more safely aligned when evaluated on RED-EVAL and HHH benchmarks while preserving the utility of the baseline models (TruthfulQA, MMLU, and BBH). 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** PoSynDA: Multi-Hypothesis Pose Synthesis Domain Adaptation for Robust 3D  Human Pose Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09678  
**Abstract:** The current 3D human pose estimators face challenges in adapting to new datasets due to the scarcity of 2D-3D pose pairs in target domain training sets. We present the \textit{Multi-Hypothesis \textbf{P}ose \textbf{Syn}thesis \textbf{D}omain \textbf{A}daptation} (\textbf{PoSynDA}) framework to overcome this issue without extensive target domain annotation. Utilizing a diffusion-centric structure, PoSynDA simulates the 3D pose distribution in the target domain, filling the data diversity gap. By incorporating a multi-hypothesis network, it creates diverse pose hypotheses and aligns them with the target domain. Target-specific source augmentation obtains the target domain distribution data from the source domain by decoupling the scale and position parameters. The teacher-student paradigm and low-rank adaptation further refine the process. PoSynDA demonstrates competitive performance on benchmarks, such as Human3.6M, MPI-INF-3DHP, and 3DPW, even comparable with the target-trained MixSTE model~\cite{zhang2022mixste}. This work paves the way for the practical application of 3D human pose estimation. The code is available at https://github.com/hbing-l/PoSynDA. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** A Lightweight Transformer for Faster and Robust EBSD Data Collection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09693  
**Abstract:** Three dimensional electron back-scattered diffraction (EBSD) microscopy is a critical tool in many applications in materials science, yet its data quality can fluctuate greatly during the arduous collection process, particularly via serial-sectioning. Fortunately, 3D EBSD data is inherently sequential, opening up the opportunity to use transformers, state-of-the-art deep learning architectures that have made breakthroughs in a plethora of domains, for data processing and recovery. To be more robust to errors and accelerate this 3D EBSD data collection, we introduce a two step method that recovers missing slices in an 3D EBSD volume, using an efficient transformer model and a projection algorithm to process the transformer's outputs. Overcoming the computational and practical hurdles of deep learning with scarce high dimensional data, we train this model using only synthetic 3D EBSD data with self-supervision and obtain superior recovery accuracy on real 3D EBSD data, compared to existing methods. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Guide3D: Create 3D Avatars from Text and Image Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09705  
**Abstract:** Recently, text-to-image generation has exhibited remarkable advancements, with the ability to produce visually impressive results. In contrast, text-to-3D generation has not yet reached a comparable level of quality. Existing methods primarily rely on text-guided score distillation sampling (SDS), and they encounter difficulties in transferring 2D attributes of the generated images to 3D content. In this work, we aim to develop an effective 3D generative model capable of synthesizing high-resolution textured meshes by leveraging both textual and image information. To this end, we introduce Guide3D, a zero-shot text-and-image-guided generative model for 3D avatar generation based on diffusion models. Our model involves (1) generating sparse-view images of a text-consistent character using diffusion models, and (2) jointly optimizing multi-resolution differentiable marching tetrahedral grids with pixel-aligned image features. We further propose a similarity-aware feature fusion strategy for efficiently integrating features from different views. Moreover, we introduce two novel training objectives as an alternative to calculating SDS, significantly enhancing the optimization process. We thoroughly evaluate the performance and components of our framework, which outperforms the current state-of-the-art in producing topologically and structurally correct geometry and high-resolution textures. Guide3D enables the direct transfer of 2D-generated images to the 3D space. Our code will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** SimDA: Simple Diffusion Adapter for Efficient Video Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09710  
**Abstract:** The recent wave of AI-generated content has witnessed the great development and success of Text-to-Image (T2I) technologies. By contrast, Text-to-Video (T2V) still falls short of expectations though attracting increasing interests. Existing works either train from scratch or adapt large T2I model to videos, both of which are computation and resource expensive. In this work, we propose a Simple Diffusion Adapter (SimDA) that fine-tunes only 24M out of 1.1B parameters of a strong T2I model, adapting it to video generation in a parameter-efficient way. In particular, we turn the T2I model for T2V by designing light-weight spatial and temporal adapters for transfer learning. Besides, we change the original spatial attention to the proposed Latent-Shift Attention (LSA) for temporal consistency. With similar model architecture, we further train a video super-resolution model to generate high-definition (1024x1024) videos. In addition to T2V generation in the wild, SimDA could also be utilized in one-shot video editing with only 2 minutes tuning. Doing so, our method could minimize the training effort with extremely few tunable parameters for model adaptation. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** HumanLiff: Layer-wise 3D Human Generation with Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09712  
**Abstract:** 3D human generation from 2D images has achieved remarkable progress through the synergistic utilization of neural rendering and generative models. Existing 3D human generative models mainly generate a clothed 3D human as an undetectable 3D model in a single pass, while rarely considering the layer-wise nature of a clothed human body, which often consists of the human body and various clothes such as underwear, outerwear, trousers, shoes, etc. In this work, we propose HumanLiff, the first layer-wise 3D human generative model with a unified diffusion process. Specifically, HumanLiff firstly generates minimal-clothed humans, represented by tri-plane features, in a canonical space, and then progressively generates clothes in a layer-wise manner. In this way, the 3D human generation is thus formulated as a sequence of diffusion-based 3D conditional generation. To reconstruct more fine-grained 3D humans with tri-plane representation, we propose a tri-plane shift operation that splits each tri-plane into three sub-planes and shifts these sub-planes to enable feature grid subdivision. To further enhance the controllability of 3D generation with 3D layered conditions, HumanLiff hierarchically fuses tri-plane features and 3D layered conditions to facilitate the 3D diffusion model learning. Extensive experiments on two layer-wise 3D human datasets, SynBody (synthetic) and TightCap (real-world), validate that HumanLiff significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods in layer-wise 3D human generation. Our code will be available at https://skhu101.github.io/HumanLiff. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Diff2Lip: Audio Conditioned Diffusion Models for Lip-Synchronization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09716  
**Abstract:** The task of lip synchronization (lip-sync) seeks to match the lips of human faces with different audio. It has various applications in the film industry as well as for creating virtual avatars and for video conferencing. This is a challenging problem as one needs to simultaneously introduce detailed, realistic lip movements while preserving the identity, pose, emotions, and image quality. Many of the previous methods trying to solve this problem suffer from image quality degradation due to a lack of complete contextual information. In this paper, we present Diff2Lip, an audio-conditioned diffusion-based model which is able to do lip synchronization in-the-wild while preserving these qualities. We train our model on Voxceleb2, a video dataset containing in-the-wild talking face videos. Extensive studies show that our method outperforms popular methods like Wav2Lip and PC-AVS in Fr\'echet inception distance (FID) metric and Mean Opinion Scores (MOS) of the users. We show results on both reconstruction (same audio-video inputs) as well as cross (different audio-video inputs) settings on Voxceleb2 and LRW datasets. Video results and code can be accessed from our project page ( https://soumik-kanad.github.io/diff2lip ). 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Smoothness Similarity Regularization for Few-Shot GAN Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09717  
**Abstract:** The task of few-shot GAN adaptation aims to adapt a pre-trained GAN model to a small dataset with very few training images. While existing methods perform well when the dataset for pre-training is structurally similar to the target dataset, the approaches suffer from training instabilities or memorization issues when the objects in the two domains have a very different structure. To mitigate this limitation, we propose a new smoothness similarity regularization that transfers the inherently learned smoothness of the pre-trained GAN to the few-shot target domain even if the two domains are very different. We evaluate our approach by adapting an unconditional and a class-conditional GAN to diverse few-shot target domains. Our proposed method significantly outperforms prior few-shot GAN adaptation methods in the challenging case of structurally dissimilar source-target domains, while performing on par with the state of the art for similar source-target domains. 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** Hitting the High-Dimensional Notes: An ODE for SGD learning dynamics on  GLMs and multi-index models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.08977  
**Abstract:** We analyze the dynamics of streaming stochastic gradient descent (SGD) in the high-dimensional limit when applied to generalized linear models and multi-index models (e.g. logistic regression, phase retrieval) with general data-covariance. In particular, we demonstrate a deterministic equivalent of SGD in the form of a system of ordinary differential equations that describes a wide class of statistics, such as the risk and other measures of sub-optimality. This equivalence holds with overwhelming probability when the model parameter count grows proportionally to the number of data. This framework allows us to obtain learning rate thresholds for stability of SGD as well as convergence guarantees. In addition to the deterministic equivalent, we introduce an SDE with a simplified diffusion coefficient (homogenized SGD) which allows us to analyze the dynamics of general statistics of SGD iterates. Finally, we illustrate this theory on some standard examples and show numerical simulations which give an excellent match to the theory. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** SR-GAN for SR-gamma: photon super resolution at collider experiments  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09025  
**Abstract:** We study single-image super-resolution algorithms for photons at collider experiments based on generative adversarial networks. We treat the energy depositions of simulated electromagnetic showers of photons and neutral-pion decays in a toy electromagnetic calorimeter as 2D images and we train super-resolution networks to generate images with an artificially increased resolution by a factor of four in each dimension. The generated images are able to reproduce features of the electromagnetic showers that are not obvious from the images at nominal resolution. Using the artificially-enhanced images for the reconstruction of shower-shape variables and of the position of the shower center results in significant improvements. We additionally investigate the utilization of the generated images as a pre-processing step for deep-learning photon-identification algorithms and observe improvements in the case of low training statistics. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** JPEG Quantized Coefficient Recovery via DCT Domain Spatial-Frequential  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09110  
**Abstract:** JPEG compression adopts the quantization of Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) coefficients for effective bit-rate reduction, whilst the quantization could lead to a significant loss of important image details. Recovering compressed JPEG images in the frequency domain has attracted more and more attention recently, in addition to numerous restoration approaches developed in the pixel domain. However, the current DCT domain methods typically suffer from limited effectiveness in handling a wide range of compression quality factors, or fall short in recovering sparse quantized coefficients and the components across different colorspace. To address these challenges, we propose a DCT domain spatial-frequential Transformer, named as DCTransformer. Specifically, a dual-branch architecture is designed to capture both spatial and frequential correlations within the collocated DCT coefficients. Moreover, we incorporate the operation of quantization matrix embedding, which effectively allows our single model to handle a wide range of quality factors, and a luminance-chrominance alignment head that produces a unified feature map to align different-sized luminance and chrominance components. Our proposed DCTransformer outperforms the current state-of-the-art JPEG artifact removal techniques, as demonstrated by our extensive experiments. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** DMCVR: Morphology-Guided Diffusion Model for 3D Cardiac Volume  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09223  
**Abstract:** Accurate 3D cardiac reconstruction from cine magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) is crucial for improved cardiovascular disease diagnosis and understanding of the heart's motion. However, current cardiac MRI-based reconstruction technology used in clinical settings is 2D with limited through-plane resolution, resulting in low-quality reconstructed cardiac volumes. To better reconstruct 3D cardiac volumes from sparse 2D image stacks, we propose a morphology-guided diffusion model for 3D cardiac volume reconstruction, DMCVR, that synthesizes high-resolution 2D images and corresponding 3D reconstructed volumes. Our method outperforms previous approaches by conditioning the cardiac morphology on the generative model, eliminating the time-consuming iterative optimization process of the latent code, and improving generation quality. The learned latent spaces provide global semantics, local cardiac morphology and details of each 2D cMRI slice with highly interpretable value to reconstruct 3D cardiac shape. Our experiments show that DMCVR is highly effective in several aspects, such as 2D generation and 3D reconstruction performance. With DMCVR, we can produce high-resolution 3D cardiac MRI reconstructions, surpassing current techniques. Our proposed framework has great potential for improving the accuracy of cardiac disease diagnosis and treatment planning. Code can be accessed at https://github.com/hexiaoxiao-cs/DMCVR. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** Denoising diffusion-based MR to CT image translation enables whole spine  vertebral segmentation in 2D and 3D without manual annotations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09345  
**Abstract:** Background: Automated segmentation of spinal MR images plays a vital role both scientifically and clinically. However, accurately delineating posterior spine structures presents challenges. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Machine-Learning Solutions for the Analysis of Single-Particle Diffusion  Trajectories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09414  
**Abstract:** Single-particle traces of the diffusive motion of molecules, cells, or animals are by-now routinely measured, similar to stochastic records of stock prices or weather data. Deciphering the stochastic mechanism behind the recorded dynamics is vital in understanding the observed systems. Typically, the task is to decipher the exact type of diffusion and/or to determine system parameters. The tools used in this endeavor are currently revolutionized by modern machine-learning techniques. In this Perspective we provide an overview over recently introduced methods in machine-learning for diffusive time series, most notably, those successfully competing in the Anomalous-Diffusion-Challenge. As such methods are often criticized for their lack of interpretability, we focus on means to include uncertainty estimates and feature-based approaches, both improving interpretability and providing concrete insight into the learning process of the machine. We expand the discussion by examining predictions on different out-of-distribution data. We also comment on expected future developments. 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** Accelerated Bayesian imaging by relaxed proximal-point Langevin sampling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09460  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a new accelerated proximal Markov chain Monte Carlo methodology to perform Bayesian inference in imaging inverse problems with an underlying convex geometry. The proposed strategy takes the form of a stochastic relaxed proximal-point iteration that admits two complementary interpretations. For models that are smooth or regularised by Moreau-Yosida smoothing, the algorithm is equivalent to an implicit midpoint discretisation of an overdamped Langevin diffusion targeting the posterior distribution of interest. This discretisation is asymptotically unbiased for Gaussian targets and shown to converge in an accelerated manner for any target that is $\kappa$-strongly log-concave (i.e., requiring in the order of $\sqrt{\kappa}$ iterations to converge, similarly to accelerated optimisation schemes), comparing favorably to [M. Pereyra, L. Vargas Mieles, K.C. Zygalakis, SIAM J. Imaging Sciences, 13, 2 (2020), pp. 905-935] which is only provably accelerated for Gaussian targets and has bias. For models that are not smooth, the algorithm is equivalent to a Leimkuhler-Matthews discretisation of a Langevin diffusion targeting a Moreau-Yosida approximation of the posterior distribution of interest, and hence achieves a significantly lower bias than conventional unadjusted Langevin strategies based on the Euler-Maruyama discretisation. For targets that are $\kappa$-strongly log-concave, the provided non-asymptotic convergence analysis also identifies the optimal time step which maximizes the convergence speed. The proposed methodology is demonstrated through a range of experiments related to image deconvolution with Gaussian and Poisson noise, with assumption-driven and data-driven convex priors. 

