**ID:** 1  
**Title:** A Trustable LSTM-Autoencoder Network for Cyberbullying Detection on  Social Media Using Synthetic Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09722  
**Abstract:** Social media cyberbullying has a detrimental effect on human life. As online social networking grows daily, the amount of hate speech also increases. Such terrible content can cause depression and actions related to suicide. This paper proposes a trustable LSTM-Autoencoder Network for cyberbullying detection on social media using synthetic data. We have demonstrated a cutting-edge method to address data availability difficulties by producing machine-translated data. However, several languages such as Hindi and Bangla still lack adequate investigations due to a lack of datasets. We carried out experimental identification of aggressive comments on Hindi, Bangla, and English datasets using the proposed model and traditional models, including Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (BiLSTM), LSTM-Autoencoder, Word2vec, Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT), and Generative Pre-trained Transformer 2 (GPT-2) models. We employed evaluation metrics such as f1-score, accuracy, precision, and recall to assess the models performance. Our proposed model outperformed all the models on all datasets, achieving the highest accuracy of 95%. Our model achieves state-of-the-art results among all the previous works on the dataset we used in this paper. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** MindMap: Knowledge Graph Prompting Sparks Graph of Thoughts in Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09729  
**Abstract:** LLMs usually exhibit limitations in their ability to incorporate new knowledge, the generation of hallucinations, and the transparency of their decision-making process. In this paper, we explore how to prompt LLMs with knowledge graphs (KG), working as a remedy to engage LLMs with up-to-date knowledge and elicit the reasoning pathways from LLMs. Specifically, we build a prompting pipeline that endows LLMs with the capability of comprehending KG inputs and inferring with a combined implicit knowledge and the retrieved external knowledge. In addition, we investigate eliciting the mind map on which LLMs perform the reasoning and generate the answers. It is identified that the produced mind map exhibits the reasoning pathways of LLMs grounded on the ontology of knowledge, hence bringing the prospects of probing and gauging LLM inference in production. The experiments on three question & answering datasets also show that MindMap prompting leads to a striking empirical gain. For instance, prompting a GPT-3.5 with MindMap yields an overwhelming performance over GPT-4 consistently. We also demonstrate that with structured facts retrieved from KG, MindMap can outperform a series of prompting-with-document-retrieval methods, benefiting from more accurate, concise, and comprehensive knowledge from KGs. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** ChatGPT-HealthPrompt. Harnessing the Power of XAI in Prompt-Based  Healthcare Decision Support using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09731  
**Abstract:** This study presents an innovative approach to the application of large language models (LLMs) in clinical decision-making, focusing on OpenAI's ChatGPT. Our approach introduces the use of contextual prompts-strategically designed to include task description, feature description, and crucially, integration of domain knowledge-for high-quality binary classification tasks even in data-scarce scenarios. The novelty of our work lies in the utilization of domain knowledge, obtained from high-performing interpretable ML models, and its seamless incorporation into prompt design. By viewing these ML models as medical experts, we extract key insights on feature importance to aid in decision-making processes. This interplay of domain knowledge and AI holds significant promise in creating a more insightful diagnostic tool. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** YORC: Yoruba Reading Comprehension dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09768  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we create YORC: a new multi-choice Yoruba Reading Comprehension dataset that is based on Yoruba high-school reading comprehension examination. We provide baseline results by performing cross-lingual transfer using existing English RACE dataset based on a pre-trained encoder-only model. Additionally, we provide results by prompting large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** How susceptible are LLMs to Logical Fallacies?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09853  
**Abstract:** This paper investigates the rational thinking capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) in multi-round argumentative debates by exploring the impact of fallacious arguments on their logical reasoning performance. More specifically, we present Logic Competence Measurement Benchmark (LOGICOM), a diagnostic benchmark to assess the robustness of LLMs against logical fallacies. LOGICOM involves two agents: a persuader and a debater engaging in a multi-round debate on a controversial topic, where the persuader tries to convince the debater of the correctness of its claim. First, LOGICOM assesses the potential of LLMs to change their opinions through reasoning. Then, it evaluates the debater's performance in logical reasoning by contrasting the scenario where the persuader employs logical fallacies against one where logical reasoning is used. We use this benchmark to evaluate the performance of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 using a dataset containing controversial topics, claims, and reasons supporting them. Our findings indicate that both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 can adjust their opinion through reasoning. However, when presented with logical fallacies, GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 are erroneously convinced 41% and 69% more often, respectively, compared to when logical reasoning is used. Finally, we introduce a new dataset containing over 5k pairs of logical vs. fallacious arguments. The source code and dataset of this work are made publicly available. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** DiffCharge: Generating EV Charging Scenarios via a Denoising Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09857  
**Abstract:** Recent proliferation of electric vehicle (EV) charging events has brought prominent stress over power grid operation. Due to the stochastic and volatile EV charging behaviors, the induced charging loads are extremely uncertain, posing modeling and control challenges for grid operators and charging management. Generating EV charging scenarios would aid via synthesizing a myriad of realistic charging scenarios. To this end, we propose a novel denoising Diffusion-based Charging scenario generation model DiffCharge, which is capable of generating a broad variety of realistic EV charging profiles with distinctive temporal properties. It is able to progressively convert the simply known Gaussian noise to genuine charging time-series data, by learning a parameterized reversal of a forward diffusion process. Besides, we leverage the multi-head self-attention and prior conditions to capture the temporal correlations and unique information associated with EV or charging station types in real charging profiles. Moreover, We demonstrate the superiority of DiffCharge on extensive real-world charging datasets, as well as the efficacy on EV integration in power distribution grids. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Learning Soft Robot Dynamics using Differentiable Kalman Filters and  Spatio-Temporal Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09868  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces a novel approach for modeling the dynamics of soft robots, utilizing a differentiable filter architecture. The proposed approach enables end-to-end training to learn system dynamics, noise characteristics, and temporal behavior of the robot. A novel spatio-temporal embedding process is discussed to handle observations with varying sensor placements and sampling frequencies. The efficacy of this approach is demonstrated on a tensegrity robot arm by learning end-effector dynamics from demonstrations with complex bending motions. The model is proven to be robust against missing modalities, diverse sensor placement, and varying sampling rates. Additionally, the proposed framework is shown to identify physical interactions with humans during motion. The utilization of a differentiable filter presents a novel solution to the difficulties of modeling soft robot dynamics. Our approach shows substantial improvement in accuracy compared to state-of-the-art filtering methods, with at least a 24% reduction in mean absolute error (MAE) observed. Furthermore, the predicted end-effector positions show an average MAE of 25.77mm from the ground truth, highlighting the advantage of our approach. The code is available at https://github.com/ir-lab/soft_robot_DEnKF. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Skill Transformer: A Monolithic Policy for Mobile Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09873  
**Abstract:** We present Skill Transformer, an approach for solving long-horizon robotic tasks by combining conditional sequence modeling and skill modularity. Conditioned on egocentric and proprioceptive observations of a robot, Skill Transformer is trained end-to-end to predict both a high-level skill (e.g., navigation, picking, placing), and a whole-body low-level action (e.g., base and arm motion), using a transformer architecture and demonstration trajectories that solve the full task. It retains the composability and modularity of the overall task through a skill predictor module while reasoning about low-level actions and avoiding hand-off errors, common in modular approaches. We test Skill Transformer on an embodied rearrangement benchmark and find it performs robust task planning and low-level control in new scenarios, achieving a 2.5x higher success rate than baselines in hard rearrangement problems. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** User-centric AIGC products: Explainable Artificial Intelligence and AIGC  products  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09877  
**Abstract:** Generative AI tools, such as ChatGPT and Midjourney, are transforming artistic creation as AI-art integration advances. However, Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC) tools face user experience challenges, necessitating a human-centric design approach. This paper offers a brief overview of research on explainable AI (XAI) and user experience, examining factors leading to suboptimal experiences with AIGC tools. Our proposed solution integrates interpretable AI methodologies into the input and adjustment feedback stages of AIGC products. We underscore XAI's potential to enhance the user experience for ordinary users and present a conceptual framework for improving AIGC user experience. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Generative Adversarial Networks Unlearning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09881  
**Abstract:** As machine learning continues to develop, and data misuse scandals become more prevalent, individuals are becoming increasingly concerned about their personal information and are advocating for the right to remove their data. Machine unlearning has emerged as a solution to erase training data from trained machine learning models. Despite its success in classifiers, research on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) is limited due to their unique architecture, including a generator and a discriminator. One challenge pertains to generator unlearning, as the process could potentially disrupt the continuity and completeness of the latent space. This disruption might consequently diminish the model's effectiveness after unlearning. Another challenge is how to define a criterion that the discriminator should perform for the unlearning images. In this paper, we introduce a substitution mechanism and define a fake label to effectively mitigate these challenges. Based on the substitution mechanism and fake label, we propose a cascaded unlearning approach for both item and class unlearning within GAN models, in which the unlearning and learning processes run in a cascaded manner. We conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the cascaded unlearning technique using the MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that this approach achieves significantly improved item and class unlearning efficiency, reducing the required time by up to 185x and 284x for the MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets, respectively, in comparison to retraining from scratch. Notably, although the model's performance experiences minor degradation after unlearning, this reduction is negligible when dealing with a minimal number of images (e.g., 64) and has no adverse effects on downstream tasks such as classification. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Forecast-MAE: Self-supervised Pre-training for Motion Forecasting with  Masked Autoencoders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09882  
**Abstract:** This study explores the application of self-supervised learning (SSL) to the task of motion forecasting, an area that has not yet been extensively investigated despite the widespread success of SSL in computer vision and natural language processing. To address this gap, we introduce Forecast-MAE, an extension of the mask autoencoders framework that is specifically designed for self-supervised learning of the motion forecasting task. Our approach includes a novel masking strategy that leverages the strong interconnections between agents' trajectories and road networks, involving complementary masking of agents' future or history trajectories and random masking of lane segments. Our experiments on the challenging Argoverse 2 motion forecasting benchmark show that Forecast-MAE, which utilizes standard Transformer blocks with minimal inductive bias, achieves competitive performance compared to state-of-the-art methods that rely on supervised learning and sophisticated designs. Moreover, it outperforms the previous self-supervised learning method by a significant margin. Code is available at https://github.com/jchengai/forecast-mae. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** A Transformer-based Framework For Multi-variate Time Series: A Remaining  Useful Life Prediction Use Case  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09884  
**Abstract:** In recent times, Large Language Models (LLMs) have captured a global spotlight and revolutionized the field of Natural Language Processing. One of the factors attributed to the effectiveness of LLMs is the model architecture used for training, transformers. Transformer models excel at capturing contextual features in sequential data since time series data are sequential, transformer models can be leveraged for more efficient time series data prediction. The field of prognostics is vital to system health management and proper maintenance planning. A reliable estimation of the remaining useful life (RUL) of machines holds the potential for substantial cost savings. This includes avoiding abrupt machine failures, maximizing equipment usage, and serving as a decision support system (DSS). This work proposed an encoder-transformer architecture-based framework for multivariate time series prediction for a prognostics use case. We validated the effectiveness of the proposed framework on all four sets of the C-MAPPS benchmark dataset for the remaining useful life prediction task. To effectively transfer the knowledge and application of transformers from the natural language domain to time series, three model-specific experiments were conducted. Also, to enable the model awareness of the initial stages of the machine life and its degradation path, a novel expanding window method was proposed for the first time in this work, it was compared with the sliding window method, and it led to a large improvement in the performance of the encoder transformer model. Finally, the performance of the proposed encoder-transformer model was evaluated on the test dataset and compared with the results from 13 other state-of-the-art (SOTA) models in the literature and it outperformed them all with an average performance increase of 137.65% over the next best model across all the datasets. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** DUAW: Data-free Universal Adversarial Watermark against Stable Diffusion  Customization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09889  
**Abstract:** Stable Diffusion (SD) customization approaches enable users to personalize SD model outputs, greatly enhancing the flexibility and diversity of AI art. However, they also allow individuals to plagiarize specific styles or subjects from copyrighted images, which raises significant concerns about potential copyright infringement. To address this issue, we propose an invisible data-free universal adversarial watermark (DUAW), aiming to protect a myriad of copyrighted images from different customization approaches across various versions of SD models. First, DUAW is designed to disrupt the variational autoencoder during SD customization. Second, DUAW operates in a data-free context, where it is trained on synthetic images produced by a Large Language Model (LLM) and a pretrained SD model. This approach circumvents the necessity of directly handling copyrighted images, thereby preserving their confidentiality. Once crafted, DUAW can be imperceptibly integrated into massive copyrighted images, serving as a protective measure by inducing significant distortions in the images generated by customized SD models. Experimental results demonstrate that DUAW can effectively distort the outputs of fine-tuned SD models, rendering them discernible to both human observers and a simple classifier. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** SwinLSTM:Improving Spatiotemporal Prediction Accuracy using Swin  Transformer and LSTM  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09891  
**Abstract:** Integrating CNNs and RNNs to capture spatiotemporal dependencies is a prevalent strategy for spatiotemporal prediction tasks. However, the property of CNNs to learn local spatial information decreases their efficiency in capturing spatiotemporal dependencies, thereby limiting their prediction accuracy. In this paper, we propose a new recurrent cell, SwinLSTM, which integrates Swin Transformer blocks and the simplified LSTM, an extension that replaces the convolutional structure in ConvLSTM with the self-attention mechanism. Furthermore, we construct a network with SwinLSTM cell as the core for spatiotemporal prediction. Without using unique tricks, SwinLSTM outperforms state-of-the-art methods on Moving MNIST, Human3.6m, TaxiBJ, and KTH datasets. In particular, it exhibits a significant improvement in prediction accuracy compared to ConvLSTM. Our competitive experimental results demonstrate that learning global spatial dependencies is more advantageous for models to capture spatiotemporal dependencies. We hope that SwinLSTM can serve as a solid baseline to promote the advancement of spatiotemporal prediction accuracy. The codes are publicly available at https://github.com/SongTang-x/SwinLSTM. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Semantic-Human: Neural Rendering of Humans from Monocular Video with  Human Parsing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09894  
**Abstract:** The neural rendering of humans is a topic of great research significance. However, previous works mostly focus on achieving photorealistic details, neglecting the exploration of human parsing. Additionally, classical semantic work are all limited in their ability to efficiently represent fine results in complex motions. Human parsing is inherently related to radiance reconstruction, as similar appearance and geometry often correspond to similar semantic part. Furthermore, previous works often design a motion field that maps from the observation space to the canonical space, while it tends to exhibit either underfitting or overfitting, resulting in limited generalization. In this paper, we present Semantic-Human, a novel method that achieves both photorealistic details and viewpoint-consistent human parsing for the neural rendering of humans. Specifically, we extend neural radiance fields (NeRF) to jointly encode semantics, appearance and geometry to achieve accurate 2D semantic labels using noisy pseudo-label supervision. Leveraging the inherent consistency and smoothness properties of NeRF, Semantic-Human achieves consistent human parsing in both continuous and novel views. We also introduce constraints derived from the SMPL surface for the motion field and regularization for the recovered volumetric geometry. We have evaluated the model using the ZJU-MoCap dataset, and the obtained highly competitive results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed Semantic-Human. We also showcase various compelling applications, including label denoising, label synthesis and image editing, and empirically validate its advantageous properties. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Towards a High-Performance Object Detector: Insights from Drone  Detection Using ViT and CNN-based Deep Learning Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09899  
**Abstract:** Accurate drone detection is strongly desired in drone collision avoidance, drone defense and autonomous Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) self-landing. With the recent emergence of the Vision Transformer (ViT), this critical task is reassessed in this paper using a UAV dataset composed of 1359 drone photos. We construct various CNN and ViT-based models, demonstrating that for single-drone detection, a basic ViT can achieve performance 4.6 times more robust than our best CNN-based transfer learning models. By implementing the state-of-the-art You Only Look Once (YOLO v7, 200 epochs) and the experimental ViT-based You Only Look At One Sequence (YOLOS, 20 epochs) in multi-drone detection, we attain impressive 98% and 96% mAP values, respectively. We find that ViT outperforms CNN at the same epoch, but also requires more training data, computational power, and sophisticated, performance-oriented designs to fully surpass the capabilities of cutting-edge CNN detectors. We summarize the distinct characteristics of ViT and CNN models to aid future researchers in developing more efficient deep learning models. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Scalable Video Object Segmentation with Simplified Framework  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09903  
**Abstract:** The current popular methods for video object segmentation (VOS) implement feature matching through several hand-crafted modules that separately perform feature extraction and matching. However, the above hand-crafted designs empirically cause insufficient target interaction, thus limiting the dynamic target-aware feature learning in VOS. To tackle these limitations, this paper presents a scalable Simplified VOS (SimVOS) framework to perform joint feature extraction and matching by leveraging a single transformer backbone. Specifically, SimVOS employs a scalable ViT backbone for simultaneous feature extraction and matching between query and reference features. This design enables SimVOS to learn better target-ware features for accurate mask prediction. More importantly, SimVOS could directly apply well-pretrained ViT backbones (e.g., MAE) for VOS, which bridges the gap between VOS and large-scale self-supervised pre-training. To achieve a better performance-speed trade-off, we further explore within-frame attention and propose a new token refinement module to improve the running speed and save computational cost. Experimentally, our SimVOS achieves state-of-the-art results on popular video object segmentation benchmarks, i.e., DAVIS-2017 (88.0% J&F), DAVIS-2016 (92.9% J&F) and YouTube-VOS 2019 (84.2% J&F), without applying any synthetic video or BL30K pre-training used in previous VOS approaches. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** DiffusionTrack: Diffusion Model For Multi-Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09905  
**Abstract:** Multi-object tracking (MOT) is a challenging vision task that aims to detect individual objects within a single frame and associate them across multiple frames. Recent MOT approaches can be categorized into two-stage tracking-by-detection (TBD) methods and one-stage joint detection and tracking (JDT) methods. Despite the success of these approaches, they also suffer from common problems, such as harmful global or local inconsistency, poor trade-off between robustness and model complexity, and lack of flexibility in different scenes within the same video. In this paper we propose a simple but robust framework that formulates object detection and association jointly as a consistent denoising diffusion process from paired noise boxes to paired ground-truth boxes. This novel progressive denoising diffusion strategy substantially augments the tracker's effectiveness, enabling it to discriminate between various objects. During the training stage, paired object boxes diffuse from paired ground-truth boxes to random distribution, and the model learns detection and tracking simultaneously by reversing this noising process. In inference, the model refines a set of paired randomly generated boxes to the detection and tracking results in a flexible one-step or multi-step denoising diffusion process. Extensive experiments on three widely used MOT benchmarks, including MOT17, MOT20, and Dancetrack, demonstrate that our approach achieves competitive performance compared to the current state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Physics-Guided Human Motion Capture with Pose Probability Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09910  
**Abstract:** Incorporating physics in human motion capture to avoid artifacts like floating, foot sliding, and ground penetration is a promising direction. Existing solutions always adopt kinematic results as reference motions, and the physics is treated as a post-processing module. However, due to the depth ambiguity, monocular motion capture inevitably suffers from noises, and the noisy reference often leads to failure for physics-based tracking. To address the obstacles, our key-idea is to employ physics as denoising guidance in the reverse diffusion process to reconstruct physically plausible human motion from a modeled pose probability distribution. Specifically, we first train a latent gaussian model that encodes the uncertainty of 2D-to-3D lifting to facilitate reverse diffusion. Then, a physics module is constructed to track the motion sampled from the distribution. The discrepancies between the tracked motion and image observation are used to provide explicit guidance for the reverse diffusion model to refine the motion. With several iterations, the physics-based tracking and kinematic denoising promote each other to generate a physically plausible human motion. Experimental results show that our method outperforms previous physics-based methods in both joint accuracy and success rate. More information can be found at \url{https://github.com/Me-Ditto/Physics-Guided-Mocap}. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** EGANS: Evolutionary Generative Adversarial Network Search for Zero-Shot  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09915  
**Abstract:** Zero-shot learning (ZSL) aims to recognize the novel classes which cannot be collected for training a prediction model. Accordingly, generative models (e.g., generative adversarial network (GAN)) are typically used to synthesize the visual samples conditioned by the class semantic vectors and achieve remarkable progress for ZSL. However, existing GAN-based generative ZSL methods are based on hand-crafted models, which cannot adapt to various datasets/scenarios and fails to model instability. To alleviate these challenges, we propose evolutionary generative adversarial network search (termed EGANS) to automatically design the generative network with good adaptation and stability, enabling reliable visual feature sample synthesis for advancing ZSL. Specifically, we adopt cooperative dual evolution to conduct a neural architecture search for both generator and discriminator under a unified evolutionary adversarial framework. EGANS is learned by two stages: evolution generator architecture search and evolution discriminator architecture search. During the evolution generator architecture search, we adopt a many-to-one adversarial training strategy to evolutionarily search for the optimal generator. Then the optimal generator is further applied to search for the optimal discriminator in the evolution discriminator architecture search with a similar evolution search algorithm. Once the optimal generator and discriminator are searched, we entail them into various generative ZSL baselines for ZSL classification. Extensive experiments show that EGANS consistently improve existing generative ZSL methods on the standard CUB, SUN, AWA2 and FLO datasets. The significant performance gains indicate that the evolutionary neural architecture search explores a virgin field in ZSL. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** East: Efficient and Accurate Secure Transformer Framework for Inference  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09923  
**Abstract:** Transformer has been successfully used in practical applications, such as ChatGPT, due to its powerful advantages. However, users' input is leaked to the model provider during the service. With people's attention to privacy, privacy-preserving Transformer inference is on the demand of such services. Secure protocols for non-linear functions are crucial in privacy-preserving Transformer inference, which are not well studied. Thus, designing practical secure protocols for non-linear functions is hard but significant to model performance. In this work, we propose a framework \emph{East} to enable efficient and accurate secure Transformer inference. Firstly, we propose a new oblivious piecewise polynomial evaluation algorithm and apply it to the activation functions, which reduces the runtime and communication of GELU by over 1.5$\times$ and 2.5$\times$, compared to prior arts. Secondly, the secure protocols for softmax and layer normalization are carefully designed to faithfully maintain the desired functionality. Thirdly, several optimizations are conducted in detail to enhance the overall efficiency. We applied \emph{East} to BERT and the results show that the inference accuracy remains consistent with the plaintext inference without fine-tuning. Compared to Iron, we achieve about 1.8$\times$ lower communication within 1.2$\times$ lower runtime. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Evaluating Transfer Learning for Simplifying GitHub READMEs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09940  
**Abstract:** Software documentation captures detailed knowledge about a software product, e.g., code, technologies, and design. It plays an important role in the coordination of development teams and in conveying ideas to various stakeholders. However, software documentation can be hard to comprehend if it is written with jargon and complicated sentence structure. In this study, we explored the potential of text simplification techniques in the domain of software engineering to automatically simplify GitHub README files. We collected software-related pairs of GitHub README files consisting of 14,588 entries, aligned difficult sentences with their simplified counterparts, and trained a Transformer-based model to automatically simplify difficult versions. To mitigate the sparse and noisy nature of the software-related simplification dataset, we applied general text simplification knowledge to this field. Since many general-domain difficult-to-simple Wikipedia document pairs are already publicly available, we explored the potential of transfer learning by first training the model on the Wikipedia data and then fine-tuning it on the README data. Using automated BLEU scores and human evaluation, we compared the performance of different transfer learning schemes and the baseline models without transfer learning. The transfer learning model using the best checkpoint trained on a general topic corpus achieved the best performance of 34.68 BLEU score and statistically significantly higher human annotation scores compared to the rest of the schemes and baselines. We conclude that using transfer learning is a promising direction to circumvent the lack of data and drift style problem in software README files simplification and achieved a better trade-off between simplification and preservation of meaning. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** UniAP: Towards Universal Animal Perception in Vision via Few-shot  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09953  
**Abstract:** Animal visual perception is an important technique for automatically monitoring animal health, understanding animal behaviors, and assisting animal-related research. However, it is challenging to design a deep learning-based perception model that can freely adapt to different animals across various perception tasks, due to the varying poses of a large diversity of animals, lacking data on rare species, and the semantic inconsistency of different tasks. We introduce UniAP, a novel Universal Animal Perception model that leverages few-shot learning to enable cross-species perception among various visual tasks. Our proposed model takes support images and labels as prompt guidance for a query image. Images and labels are processed through a Transformer-based encoder and a lightweight label encoder, respectively. Then a matching module is designed for aggregating information between prompt guidance and the query image, followed by a multi-head label decoder to generate outputs for various tasks. By capitalizing on the shared visual characteristics among different animals and tasks, UniAP enables the transfer of knowledge from well-studied species to those with limited labeled data or even unseen species. We demonstrate the effectiveness of UniAP through comprehensive experiments in pose estimation, segmentation, and classification tasks on diverse animal species, showcasing its ability to generalize and adapt to new classes with minimal labeled examples. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Data-to-text Generation for Severely Under-Resourced Languages with  GPT-3.5: A Bit of Help Needed from Google Translate  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09957  
**Abstract:** LLMs like GPT are great at tasks involving English which dominates in their training data. In this paper, we look at how they cope with tasks involving languages that are severely under-represented in their training data, in the context of data-to-text generation for Irish, Maltese, Welsh and Breton. During the prompt-engineering phase we tested a range of prompt types and formats on GPT-3.5 and~4 with a small sample of example input/output pairs. We then fully evaluated the two most promising prompts in two scenarios: (i) direct generation into the under-resourced language, and (ii) generation into English followed by translation into the under-resourced language. We find that few-shot prompting works better for direct generation into under-resourced languages, but that the difference disappears when pivoting via English. The few-shot + translation system variants were submitted to the WebNLG 2023 shared task where they outperformed competitor systems by substantial margins in all languages on all metrics. We conclude that good performance on under-resourced languages can be achieved out-of-the box with state-of-the-art LLMs. However, our best results (for Welsh) remain well below the lowest ranked English system at WebNLG'20. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** FinEval: A Chinese Financial Domain Knowledge Evaluation Benchmark for  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09975  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional performance in various natural language processing tasks, yet their efficacy in more challenging and domain-specific tasks remains largely unexplored. This paper presents FinEval, a benchmark specifically designed for the financial domain knowledge in the LLMs. FinEval is a collection of high-quality multiple-choice questions covering Finance, Economy, Accounting, and Certificate. It includes 4,661 questions spanning 34 different academic subjects. To ensure a comprehensive model performance evaluation, FinEval employs a range of prompt types, including zero-shot and few-shot prompts, as well as answer-only and chain-of-thought prompts. Evaluating state-of-the-art Chinese and English LLMs on FinEval, the results show that only GPT-4 achieved an accuracy close to 70% in different prompt settings, indicating significant growth potential for LLMs in the financial domain knowledge. Our work offers a more comprehensive financial knowledge evaluation benchmark, utilizing data of mock exams and covering a wide range of evaluated LLMs. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Explicit Time Embedding Based Cascade Attention Network for Information  Popularity Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09976  
**Abstract:** Predicting information cascade popularity is a fundamental problem in social networks. Capturing temporal attributes and cascade role information (e.g., cascade graphs and cascade sequences) is necessary for understanding the information cascade. Current methods rarely focus on unifying this information for popularity predictions, which prevents them from effectively modeling the full properties of cascades to achieve satisfactory prediction performances. In this paper, we propose an explicit Time embedding based Cascade Attention Network (TCAN) as a novel popularity prediction architecture for large-scale information networks. TCAN integrates temporal attributes (i.e., periodicity, linearity, and non-linear scaling) into node features via a general time embedding approach (TE), and then employs a cascade graph attention encoder (CGAT) and a cascade sequence attention encoder (CSAT) to fully learn the representation of cascade graphs and cascade sequences. We use two real-world datasets (i.e., Weibo and APS) with tens of thousands of cascade samples to validate our methods. Experimental results show that TCAN obtains mean logarithm squared errors of 2.007 and 1.201 and running times of 1.76 hours and 0.15 hours on both datasets, respectively. Furthermore, TCAN outperforms other representative baselines by 10.4%, 3.8%, and 10.4% in terms of MSLE, MAE, and R-squared on average while maintaining good interpretability. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** HICL: Hashtag-Driven In-Context Learning for Social Media Natural  Language Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09985  
**Abstract:** Natural language understanding (NLU) is integral to various social media applications. However, existing NLU models rely heavily on context for semantic learning, resulting in compromised performance when faced with short and noisy social media content. To address this issue, we leverage in-context learning (ICL), wherein language models learn to make inferences by conditioning on a handful of demonstrations to enrich the context and propose a novel hashtag-driven in-context learning (HICL) framework. Concretely, we pre-train a model #Encoder, which employs #hashtags (user-annotated topic labels) to drive BERT-based pre-training through contrastive learning. Our objective here is to enable #Encoder to gain the ability to incorporate topic-related semantic information, which allows it to retrieve topic-related posts to enrich contexts and enhance social media NLU with noisy contexts. To further integrate the retrieved context with the source text, we employ a gradient-based method to identify trigger terms useful in fusing information from both sources. For empirical studies, we collected 45M tweets to set up an in-context NLU benchmark, and the experimental results on seven downstream tasks show that HICL substantially advances the previous state-of-the-art results. Furthermore, we conducted extensive analyzes and found that: (1) combining source input with a top-retrieved post from #Encoder is more effective than using semantically similar posts; (2) trigger words can largely benefit in merging context from the source and retrieved posts. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** AltDiffusion: A Multilingual Text-to-Image Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.09991  
**Abstract:** Large Text-to-Image(T2I) diffusion models have shown a remarkable capability to produce photorealistic and diverse images based on text inputs. However, existing works only support limited language input, e.g., English, Chinese, and Japanese, leaving users beyond these languages underserved and blocking the global expansion of T2I models. Therefore, this paper presents AltDiffusion, a novel multilingual T2I diffusion model that supports eighteen different languages. Specifically, we first train a multilingual text encoder based on the knowledge distillation. Then we plug it into a pretrained English-only diffusion model and train the model with a two-stage schema to enhance the multilingual capability, including concept alignment and quality improvement stage on a large-scale multilingual dataset. Furthermore, we introduce a new benchmark, which includes Multilingual-General-18(MG-18) and Multilingual-Cultural-18(MC-18) datasets, to evaluate the capabilities of T2I diffusion models for generating high-quality images and capturing culture-specific concepts in different languages. Experimental results on both MG-18 and MC-18 demonstrate that AltDiffusion outperforms current state-of-the-art T2I models, e.g., Stable Diffusion in multilingual understanding, especially with respect to culture-specific concepts, while still having comparable capability for generating high-quality images. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** AltNeRF: Learning Robust Neural Radiance Field via Alternating  Depth-Pose Optimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10001  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have shown promise in generating realistic novel views from sparse scene images. However, existing NeRF approaches often encounter challenges due to the lack of explicit 3D supervision and imprecise camera poses, resulting in suboptimal outcomes. To tackle these issues, we propose AltNeRF -- a novel framework designed to create resilient NeRF representations using self-supervised monocular depth estimation (SMDE) from monocular videos, without relying on known camera poses. SMDE in AltNeRF masterfully learns depth and pose priors to regulate NeRF training. The depth prior enriches NeRF's capacity for precise scene geometry depiction, while the pose prior provides a robust starting point for subsequent pose refinement. Moreover, we introduce an alternating algorithm that harmoniously melds NeRF outputs into SMDE through a consistence-driven mechanism, thus enhancing the integrity of depth priors. This alternation empowers AltNeRF to progressively refine NeRF representations, yielding the synthesis of realistic novel views. Additionally, we curate a distinctive dataset comprising indoor videos captured via mobile devices. Extensive experiments showcase the compelling capabilities of AltNeRF in generating high-fidelity and robust novel views that closely resemble reality. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Cupid: Leveraging ChatGPT for More Accurate Duplicate Bug Report  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10022  
**Abstract:** Duplicate bug report detection (DBRD) is a long-standing challenge in both academia and industry. Over the past decades, researchers have proposed various approaches to detect duplicate bug reports more accurately. With the recent advancement of deep learning, researchers have also proposed several approaches that leverage deep learning models to detect duplicate bug reports. A recent benchmarking study on DBRD also reveals that the performance of deep learning-based approaches is not always better than the traditional approaches. However, traditional approaches have limitations, e.g., they are usually based on the bag-of-words model, which cannot capture the semantics of bug reports. To address these aforementioned challenges, we seek to leverage state-of-the-art large language model to improve the performance of the traditional DBRD approach. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Physics-guided training of GAN to improve accuracy in airfoil design  synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10038  
**Abstract:** Generative adversarial networks (GAN) have recently been used for a design synthesis of mechanical shapes. A GAN sometimes outputs physically unreasonable shapes. For example, when a GAN model is trained to output airfoil shapes that indicate required aerodynamic performance, significant errors occur in the performance values. This is because the GAN model only considers data but does not consider the aerodynamic equations that lie under the data. This paper proposes the physics-guided training of the GAN model to guide the model to learn physical validity. Physical validity is computed using general-purpose software located outside the neural network model. Such general-purpose software cannot be used in physics-informed neural network frameworks, because physical equations must be implemented inside the neural network models. Additionally, a limitation of generative models is that the output data are similar to the training data and cannot generate completely new shapes. However, because the proposed model is guided by a physical model and does not use a training dataset, it can generate completely new shapes. Numerical experiments show that the proposed model drastically improves the accuracy. Moreover, the output shapes differ from those of the training dataset but still satisfy the physical validity, overcoming the limitations of existing GAN models. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** ControlCom: Controllable Image Composition using Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10040  
**Abstract:** Image composition targets at synthesizing a realistic composite image from a pair of foreground and background images. Recently, generative composition methods are built on large pretrained diffusion models to generate composite images, considering their great potential in image generation. However, they suffer from lack of controllability on foreground attributes and poor preservation of foreground identity. To address these challenges, we propose a controllable image composition method that unifies four tasks in one diffusion model: image blending, image harmonization, view synthesis, and generative composition. Meanwhile, we design a self-supervised training framework coupled with a tailored pipeline of training data preparation. Moreover, we propose a local enhancement module to enhance the foreground details in the diffusion model, improving the foreground fidelity of composite images. The proposed method is evaluated on both public benchmark and real-world data, which demonstrates that our method can generate more faithful and controllable composite images than existing approaches. The code and model will be available at https://github.com/bcmi/ControlCom-Image-Composition. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** An Empirical Study of CLIP for Text-based Person Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10045  
**Abstract:** Text-based Person Search (TBPS) aims to retrieve the person images using natural language descriptions. Recently, Contrastive Language Image Pretraining (CLIP), a universal large cross-modal vision-language pre-training model, has remarkably performed over various cross-modal downstream tasks due to its powerful cross-modal semantic learning capacity. TPBS, as a fine-grained cross-modal retrieval task, is also facing the rise of research on the CLIP-based TBPS. In order to explore the potential of the visual-language pre-training model for downstream TBPS tasks, this paper makes the first attempt to conduct a comprehensive empirical study of CLIP for TBPS and thus contribute a straightforward, incremental, yet strong TBPS-CLIP baseline to the TBPS community. We revisit critical design considerations under CLIP, including data augmentation and loss function. The model, with the aforementioned designs and practical training tricks, can attain satisfactory performance without any sophisticated modules. Also, we conduct the probing experiments of TBPS-CLIP in model generalization and model compression, demonstrating the effectiveness of TBPS-CLIP from various aspects. This work is expected to provide empirical insights and highlight future CLIP-based TBPS research. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** DPL: Decoupled Prompt Learning for Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10061  
**Abstract:** Prompt learning has emerged as an efficient and effective approach for transferring foundational Vision-Language Models (e.g., CLIP) to downstream tasks. However, current methods tend to overfit to seen categories, thereby limiting their generalization ability for unseen classes. In this paper, we propose a new method, Decoupled Prompt Learning (DPL), which reformulates the attention in prompt learning to alleviate this problem. Specifically, we theoretically investigate the collaborative process between prompts and instances (i.e., image patches/text tokens) by reformulating the original self-attention into four separate sub-processes. Through detailed analysis, we observe that certain sub-processes can be strengthened to bolster robustness and generalizability by some approximation techniques. Furthermore, we introduce language-conditioned textual prompting based on decoupled attention to naturally preserve the generalization of text input. Our approach is flexible for both visual and textual modalities, making it easily extendable to multi-modal prompt learning. By combining the proposed techniques, our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on three representative benchmarks encompassing 15 image recognition datasets, while maintaining parameter-efficient. Moreover, our DPL does not rely on any auxiliary regularization task or extra training data, further demonstrating its remarkable generalization ability. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Efficient Representation Learning for Healthcare with  Cross-Architectural Self-Supervision  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10064  
**Abstract:** In healthcare and biomedical applications, extreme computational requirements pose a significant barrier to adopting representation learning. Representation learning can enhance the performance of deep learning architectures by learning useful priors from limited medical data. However, state-of-the-art self-supervised techniques suffer from reduced performance when using smaller batch sizes or shorter pretraining epochs, which are more practical in clinical settings. We present Cross Architectural - Self Supervision (CASS) in response to this challenge. This novel siamese self-supervised learning approach synergistically leverages Transformer and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) for efficient learning. Our empirical evaluation demonstrates that CASS-trained CNNs and Transformers outperform existing self-supervised learning methods across four diverse healthcare datasets. With only 1% labeled data for finetuning, CASS achieves a 3.8% average improvement; with 10% labeled data, it gains 5.9%; and with 100% labeled data, it reaches a remarkable 10.13% enhancement. Notably, CASS reduces pretraining time by 69% compared to state-of-the-art methods, making it more amenable to clinical implementation. We also demonstrate that CASS is considerably more robust to variations in batch size and pretraining epochs, making it a suitable candidate for machine learning in healthcare applications. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Contrastive Learning for Non-Local Graphs with Multi-Resolution  Structural Views  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10077  
**Abstract:** Learning node-level representations of heterophilic graphs is crucial for various applications, including fraudster detection and protein function prediction. In such graphs, nodes share structural similarity identified by the equivalence of their connectivity which is implicitly encoded in the form of higher-order hierarchical information in the graphs. The contrastive methods are popular choices for learning the representation of nodes in a graph. However, existing contrastive methods struggle to capture higher-order graph structures. To address this limitation, we propose a novel multiview contrastive learning approach that integrates diffusion filters on graphs. By incorporating multiple graph views as augmentations, our method captures the structural equivalence in heterophilic graphs, enabling the discovery of hidden relationships and similarities not apparent in traditional node representations. Our approach outperforms baselines on synthetic and real structural datasets, surpassing the best baseline by $16.06\%$ on Cornell, $3.27\%$ on Texas, and $8.04\%$ on Wisconsin. Additionally, it consistently achieves superior performance on proximal tasks, demonstrating its effectiveness in uncovering structural information and improving downstream applications. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** MeDM: Mediating Image Diffusion Models for Video-to-Video Translation  with Temporal Correspondence Guidance  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10079  
**Abstract:** This study introduces an efficient and effective method, MeDM, that utilizes pre-trained image Diffusion Models for video-to-video translation with consistent temporal flow. The proposed framework can render videos from scene position information, such as a normal G-buffer, or perform text-guided editing on videos captured in real-world scenarios. We employ explicit optical flows to construct a practical coding that enforces physical constraints on generated frames and mediates independent frame-wise scores. By leveraging this coding, maintaining temporal consistency in the generated videos can be framed as an optimization problem with a closed-form solution. To ensure compatibility with Stable Diffusion, we also suggest a workaround for modifying observed-space scores in latent-space Diffusion Models. Notably, MeDM does not require fine-tuning or test-time optimization of the Diffusion Models. Through extensive qualitative, quantitative, and subjective experiments on various benchmarks, the study demonstrates the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed approach. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Controllable Multi-domain Semantic Artwork Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10111  
**Abstract:** We present a novel framework for multi-domain synthesis of artwork from semantic layouts. One of the main limitations of this challenging task is the lack of publicly available segmentation datasets for art synthesis. To address this problem, we propose a dataset, which we call ArtSem, that contains 40,000 images of artwork from 4 different domains with their corresponding semantic label maps. We generate the dataset by first extracting semantic maps from landscape photography and then propose a conditional Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)-based approach to generate high-quality artwork from the semantic maps without necessitating paired training data. Furthermore, we propose an artwork synthesis model that uses domain-dependent variational encoders for high-quality multi-domain synthesis. The model is improved and complemented with a simple but effective normalization method, based on normalizing both the semantic and style jointly, which we call Spatially STyle-Adaptive Normalization (SSTAN). In contrast to previous methods that only take semantic layout as input, our model is able to learn a joint representation of both style and semantic information, which leads to better generation quality for synthesizing artistic images. Results indicate that our model learns to separate the domains in the latent space, and thus, by identifying the hyperplanes that separate the different domains, we can also perform fine-grained control of the synthesized artwork. By combining our proposed dataset and approach, we are able to generate user-controllable artwork that is of higher quality than existing 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** HollowNeRF: Pruning Hashgrid-Based NeRFs with Trainable Collision  Mitigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10122  
**Abstract:** Neural radiance fields (NeRF) have garnered significant attention, with recent works such as Instant-NGP accelerating NeRF training and evaluation through a combination of hashgrid-based positional encoding and neural networks. However, effectively leveraging the spatial sparsity of 3D scenes remains a challenge. To cull away unnecessary regions of the feature grid, existing solutions rely on prior knowledge of object shape or periodically estimate object shape during training by repeated model evaluations, which are costly and wasteful. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** TransFace: Calibrating Transformer Training for Face Recognition from a  Data-Centric Perspective  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10133  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformers (ViTs) have demonstrated powerful representation ability in various visual tasks thanks to their intrinsic data-hungry nature. However, we unexpectedly find that ViTs perform vulnerably when applied to face recognition (FR) scenarios with extremely large datasets. We investigate the reasons for this phenomenon and discover that the existing data augmentation approach and hard sample mining strategy are incompatible with ViTs-based FR backbone due to the lack of tailored consideration on preserving face structural information and leveraging each local token information. To remedy these problems, this paper proposes a superior FR model called TransFace, which employs a patch-level data augmentation strategy named DPAP and a hard sample mining strategy named EHSM. Specially, DPAP randomly perturbs the amplitude information of dominant patches to expand sample diversity, which effectively alleviates the overfitting problem in ViTs. EHSM utilizes the information entropy in the local tokens to dynamically adjust the importance weight of easy and hard samples during training, leading to a more stable prediction. Experiments on several benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our TransFace. Code and models are available at https://github.com/DanJun6737/TransFace. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** ExpeL: LLM Agents Are Experiential Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10144  
**Abstract:** The recent surge in research interest in applying large language models (LLMs) to decision-making tasks has flourished by leveraging the extensive world knowledge embedded in LLMs. While there is a growing demand to tailor LLMs for custom decision-making tasks, finetuning them for specific tasks is resource-intensive and may diminish the model's generalization capabilities. Moreover, state-of-the-art language models like GPT-4 and Claude are primarily accessible through API calls, with their parametric weights remaining proprietary and unavailable to the public. This scenario emphasizes the growing need for new methodologies that allow learning from agent experiences without requiring parametric updates. To address these problems, we introduce the Experiential Learning (ExpeL) agent. Our agent autonomously gathers experiences and extracts knowledge using natural language from a collection of training tasks. At inference, the agent recalls its extracted insights and past experiences to make informed decisions. Our empirical results highlight the robust learning efficacy of the ExpeL agent, indicating a consistent enhancement in its performance as it accumulates experiences. We further explore the emerging capabilities and transfer learning potential of the ExpeL agent through qualitative observations and additional experiments. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** ESTextSpotter: Towards Better Scene Text Spotting with Explicit Synergy  in Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10147  
**Abstract:** In recent years, end-to-end scene text spotting approaches are evolving to the Transformer-based framework. While previous studies have shown the crucial importance of the intrinsic synergy between text detection and recognition, recent advances in Transformer-based methods usually adopt an implicit synergy strategy with shared query, which can not fully realize the potential of these two interactive tasks. In this paper, we argue that the explicit synergy considering distinct characteristics of text detection and recognition can significantly improve the performance text spotting. To this end, we introduce a new model named Explicit Synergy-based Text Spotting Transformer framework (ESTextSpotter), which achieves explicit synergy by modeling discriminative and interactive features for text detection and recognition within a single decoder. Specifically, we decompose the conventional shared query into task-aware queries for text polygon and content, respectively. Through the decoder with the proposed vision-language communication module, the queries interact with each other in an explicit manner while preserving discriminative patterns of text detection and recognition, thus improving performance significantly. Additionally, we propose a task-aware query initialization scheme to ensure stable training. Experimental results demonstrate that our model significantly outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods. Code is available at https://github.com/mxin262/ESTextSpotter. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** SSMG: Spatial-Semantic Map Guided Diffusion Model for Free-form  Layout-to-Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10156  
**Abstract:** Despite significant progress in Text-to-Image (T2I) generative models, even lengthy and complex text descriptions still struggle to convey detailed controls. In contrast, Layout-to-Image (L2I) generation, aiming to generate realistic and complex scene images from user-specified layouts, has risen to prominence. However, existing methods transform layout information into tokens or RGB images for conditional control in the generative process, leading to insufficient spatial and semantic controllability of individual instances. To address these limitations, we propose a novel Spatial-Semantic Map Guided (SSMG) diffusion model that adopts the feature map, derived from the layout, as guidance. Owing to rich spatial and semantic information encapsulated in well-designed feature maps, SSMG achieves superior generation quality with sufficient spatial and semantic controllability compared to previous works. Additionally, we propose the Relation-Sensitive Attention (RSA) and Location-Sensitive Attention (LSA) mechanisms. The former aims to model the relationships among multiple objects within scenes while the latter is designed to heighten the model's sensitivity to the spatial information embedded in the guidance. Extensive experiments demonstrate that SSMG achieves highly promising results, setting a new state-of-the-art across a range of metrics encompassing fidelity, diversity, and controllability. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** HODN: Disentangling Human-Object Feature for HOI Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10158  
**Abstract:** The task of Human-Object Interaction (HOI) detection is to detect humans and their interactions with surrounding objects, where transformer-based methods show dominant advances currently. However, these methods ignore the relationship among humans, objects, and interactions: 1) human features are more contributive than object ones to interaction prediction; 2) interactive information disturbs the detection of objects but helps human detection. In this paper, we propose a Human and Object Disentangling Network (HODN) to model the HOI relationships explicitly, where humans and objects are first detected by two disentangling decoders independently and then processed by an interaction decoder. Considering that human features are more contributive to interaction, we propose a Human-Guide Linking method to make sure the interaction decoder focuses on the human-centric regions with human features as the positional embeddings. To handle the opposite influences of interactions on humans and objects, we propose a Stop-Gradient Mechanism to stop interaction gradients from optimizing the object detection but to allow them to optimize the human detection. Our proposed method achieves competitive performance on both the V-COCO and the HICO-Det datasets. It can be combined with existing methods easily for state-of-the-art results. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** ViT-Lens: Towards Omni-modal Representations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10185  
**Abstract:** Though the success of CLIP-based training recipes in vision-language models, their scalability to more modalities (e.g., 3D, audio, etc.) is limited to large-scale data, which is expensive or even inapplicable for rare modalities. In this paper, we present ViT-Lens that facilitates efficient omni-modal representation learning by perceiving novel modalities with a pretrained ViT and aligning to a pre-defined space. Specifically, the modality-specific lens is tuned to project multimodal signals to the shared embedding space, which are then processed by a strong ViT that carries pre-trained image knowledge. The encoded multimodal representations are optimized toward aligning with the modal-independent space, pre-defined by off-the-shelf foundation models. A well-trained lens with a ViT backbone has the potential to serve as one of these foundation models, supervising the learning of subsequent modalities. ViT-Lens provides a unified solution for representation learning of increasing modalities with two appealing benefits: (i) Exploiting the pretrained ViT across tasks and domains effectively with efficient data regime; (ii) Emergent downstream capabilities of novel modalities are demonstrated due to the modality alignment space. We evaluate ViT-Lens in the context of 3D as an initial verification. In zero-shot 3D classification, ViT-Lens achieves substantial improvements over previous state-of-the-art, showing 52.0% accuracy on Objaverse-LVIS, 87.4% on ModelNet40, and 60.6% on ScanObjectNN. Furthermore, we enable zero-shot 3D question-answering by simply integrating the trained 3D lens into the InstructBLIP model without any adaptation. We will release the results of ViT-Lens on more modalities in the near future. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Spiking-Diffusion: Vector Quantized Discrete Diffusion Model with  Spiking Neural Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10187  
**Abstract:** Spiking neural networks (SNNs) have tremendous potential for energy-efficient neuromorphic chips due to their binary and event-driven architecture. SNNs have been primarily used in classification tasks, but limited exploration on image generation tasks. To fill the gap, we propose a Spiking-Diffusion model, which is based on the vector quantized discrete diffusion model. First, we develop a vector quantized variational autoencoder with SNNs (VQ-SVAE) to learn a discrete latent space for images. With VQ-SVAE, image features are encoded using both the spike firing rate and postsynaptic potential, and an adaptive spike generator is designed to restore embedding features in the form of spike trains. Next, we perform absorbing state diffusion in the discrete latent space and construct a diffusion image decoder with SNNs to denoise the image. Our work is the first to build the diffusion model entirely from SNN layers. Experimental results on MNIST, FMNIST, KMNIST, and Letters demonstrate that Spiking-Diffusion outperforms the existing SNN-based generation model. We achieve FIDs of 37.50, 91.98, 59.23 and 67.41 on the above datasets respectively, with reductions of 58.60\%, 18.75\%, 64.51\%, and 29.75\% in FIDs compared with the state-of-art work. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** WMFormer++: Nested Transformer for Visible Watermark Removal via Implict  Joint Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10195  
**Abstract:** Watermarking serves as a widely adopted approach to safeguard media copyright. In parallel, the research focus has extended to watermark removal techniques, offering an adversarial means to enhance watermark robustness and foster advancements in the watermarking field. Existing watermark removal methods often rely on UNet architectures with multiple decoder branches -- one for watermark localization and the other for background image restoration. These methods involve complex module designs to guide information flow for respective tasks, which can lead to suboptimal performance and an overly cumbersome model. To simplify the existing framework, we propose a novel Transformer-based approach with a unified decoder branch, treating watermark extraction and background restoration as a single task and allowing thenetwork to learn information flow between them without artificial design patterns. Additionally, we utilize nested structures to facilitate multi-scale feature fusion, forming a parallel ensemble of nested structures that constitute the UNet. Supervision is applied to UNets with varying depths to facilitate knowledge learning across all levels. Extensive experiments are conducted on various challenging benchmarks to validate the effectiveness of our proposed method. The results demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance and produces high-quality images. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Blind Face Restoration for Under-Display Camera via Dictionary Guided  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10196  
**Abstract:** By hiding the front-facing camera below the display panel, Under-Display Camera (UDC) provides users with a full-screen experience. However, due to the characteristics of the display, images taken by UDC suffer from significant quality degradation. Methods have been proposed to tackle UDC image restoration and advances have been achieved. There are still no specialized methods and datasets for restoring UDC face images, which may be the most common problem in the UDC scene. To this end, considering color filtering, brightness attenuation, and diffraction in the imaging process of UDC, we propose a two-stage network UDC Degradation Model Network named UDC-DMNet to synthesize UDC images by modeling the processes of UDC imaging. Then we use UDC-DMNet and high-quality face images from FFHQ and CelebA-Test to create UDC face training datasets FFHQ-P/T and testing datasets CelebA-Test-P/T for UDC face restoration. We propose a novel dictionary-guided transformer network named DGFormer. Introducing the facial component dictionary and the characteristics of the UDC image in the restoration makes DGFormer capable of addressing blind face restoration in UDC scenarios. Experiments show that our DGFormer and UDC-DMNet achieve state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Hiding Backdoors within Event Sequence Data via Poisoning Attacks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10201  
**Abstract:** The financial industry relies on deep learning models for making important decisions. This adoption brings new danger, as deep black-box models are known to be vulnerable to adversarial attacks. In computer vision, one can shape the output during inference by performing an adversarial attack called poisoning via introducing a backdoor into the model during training. For sequences of financial transactions of a customer, insertion of a backdoor is harder to perform, as models operate over a more complex discrete space of sequences, and systematic checks for insecurities occur. We provide a method to introduce concealed backdoors, creating vulnerabilities without altering their functionality for uncontaminated data. To achieve this, we replace a clean model with a poisoned one that is aware of the availability of a backdoor and utilize this knowledge. Our most difficult for uncovering attacks include either additional supervised detection step of poisoned data activated during the test or well-hidden model weight modifications. The experimental study provides insights into how these effects vary across different datasets, architectures, and model components. Alternative methods and baselines, such as distillation-type regularization, are also explored but found to be less efficient. Conducted on three open transaction datasets and architectures, including LSTM, CNN, and Transformer, our findings not only illuminate the vulnerabilities in contemporary models but also can drive the construction of more robust systems. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** ChatEDA: A Large Language Model Powered Autonomous Agent for EDA  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10204  
**Abstract:** The integration of a complex set of Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools to enhance interoperability is a critical concern for circuit designers. Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have showcased their exceptional capabilities in natural language processing and comprehension, offering a novel approach to interfacing with EDA tools. This research paper introduces ChatEDA, an autonomous agent for EDA empowered by a large language model, AutoMage, complemented by EDA tools serving as executors. ChatEDA streamlines the design flow from the Register-Transfer Level (RTL) to the Graphic Data System Version II (GDSII) by effectively managing task planning, script generation, and task execution. Through comprehensive experimental evaluations, ChatEDA has demonstrated its proficiency in handling diverse requirements, and our fine-tuned AutoMage model has exhibited superior performance compared to GPT-4 and other similar LLMs. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** FedSIS: Federated Split Learning with Intermediate Representation  Sampling for Privacy-preserving Generalized Face Presentation Attack  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10236  
**Abstract:** Lack of generalization to unseen domains/attacks is the Achilles heel of most face presentation attack detection (FacePAD) algorithms. Existing attempts to enhance the generalizability of FacePAD solutions assume that data from multiple source domains are available with a single entity to enable centralized training. In practice, data from different source domains may be collected by diverse entities, who are often unable to share their data due to legal and privacy constraints. While collaborative learning paradigms such as federated learning (FL) can overcome this problem, standard FL methods are ill-suited for domain generalization because they struggle to surmount the twin challenges of handling non-iid client data distributions during training and generalizing to unseen domains during inference. In this work, a novel framework called Federated Split learning with Intermediate representation Sampling (FedSIS) is introduced for privacy-preserving domain generalization. In FedSIS, a hybrid Vision Transformer (ViT) architecture is learned using a combination of FL and split learning to achieve robustness against statistical heterogeneity in the client data distributions without any sharing of raw data (thereby preserving privacy). To further improve generalization to unseen domains, a novel feature augmentation strategy called intermediate representation sampling is employed, and discriminative information from intermediate blocks of a ViT is distilled using a shared adapter network. The FedSIS approach has been evaluated on two well-known benchmarks for cross-domain FacePAD to demonstrate that it is possible to achieve state-of-the-art generalization performance without data sharing. Code: https://github.com/Naiftt/FedSIS 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Generic Attention-model Explainability by Weighted Relevance  Accumulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10240  
**Abstract:** Attention-based transformer models have achieved remarkable progress in multi-modal tasks, such as visual question answering. The explainability of attention-based methods has recently attracted wide interest as it can explain the inner changes of attention tokens by accumulating relevancy across attention layers. Current methods simply update relevancy by equally accumulating the token relevancy before and after the attention processes. However, the importance of token values is usually different during relevance accumulation. In this paper, we propose a weighted relevancy strategy, which takes the importance of token values into consideration, to reduce distortion when equally accumulating relevance. To evaluate our method, we propose a unified CLIP-based two-stage model, named CLIPmapper, to process Vision-and-Language tasks through CLIP encoder and a following mapper. CLIPmapper consists of self-attention, cross-attention, single-modality, and cross-modality attention, thus it is more suitable for evaluating our generic explainability method. Extensive perturbation tests on visual question answering and image captioning validate that our explainability method outperforms existing methods. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** StableLLaVA: Enhanced Visual Instruction Tuning with Synthesized  Image-Dialogue Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10253  
**Abstract:** The remarkable multimodal capabilities demonstrated by OpenAI's GPT-4 have sparked significant interest in the development of multimodal Large Language Models (LLMs). A primary research objective of such models is to align visual and textual modalities effectively while comprehending human instructions. Current methodologies often rely on annotations derived from benchmark datasets to construct image-dialogue datasets for training purposes, akin to instruction tuning in LLMs. However, these datasets often exhibit domain bias, potentially constraining the generative capabilities of the models. In an effort to mitigate these limitations, we propose a novel data collection methodology that synchronously synthesizes images and dialogues for visual instruction tuning. This approach harnesses the power of generative models, marrying the abilities of ChatGPT and text-to-image generative models to yield a diverse and controllable dataset with varied image content. This not only provides greater flexibility compared to existing methodologies but also significantly enhances several model capabilities. Our research includes comprehensive experiments conducted on various datasets using the open-source LLAVA model as a testbed for our proposed pipeline. Our results underscore marked enhancements across more than ten commonly assessed capabilities, 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Make-It-4D: Synthesizing a Consistent Long-Term Dynamic Scene Video from  a Single Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10257  
**Abstract:** We study the problem of synthesizing a long-term dynamic video from only a single image. This is challenging since it requires consistent visual content movements given large camera motions. Existing methods either hallucinate inconsistent perpetual views or struggle with long camera trajectories. To address these issues, it is essential to estimate the underlying 4D (including 3D geometry and scene motion) and fill in the occluded regions. To this end, we present Make-It-4D, a novel method that can generate a consistent long-term dynamic video from a single image. On the one hand, we utilize layered depth images (LDIs) to represent a scene, and they are then unprojected to form a feature point cloud. To animate the visual content, the feature point cloud is displaced based on the scene flow derived from motion estimation and the corresponding camera pose. Such 4D representation enables our method to maintain the global consistency of the generated dynamic video. On the other hand, we fill in the occluded regions by using a pretrained diffusion model to inpaint and outpaint the input image. This enables our method to work under large camera motions. Benefiting from our design, our method can be training-free which saves a significant amount of training time. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, which showcases compelling rendering results. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** How Good Are Large Language Models at Out-of-Distribution Detection?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10261  
**Abstract:** Out-of-distribution (OOD) detection plays a vital role in enhancing the reliability of machine learning (ML) models. The emergence of large language models (LLMs) has catalyzed a paradigm shift within the ML community, showcasing their exceptional capabilities across diverse natural language processing tasks. While existing research has probed OOD detection with smaller encoder-based Transformers like BERT and RoBERTa, the stark differences in scales, pre-training objectives, and inference paradigms call into question the applicability of these findings to LLMs. This paper embarks on a pioneering empirical investigation of OOD detection in the domain of LLMs, focusing on LLaMA series ranging from 7B to 65B in size. We thoroughly evaluate commonly-used OOD detectors, scrutinizing their performance in both zero-grad and fine-tuning scenarios. Notably, we alter previous discriminative in-distribution fine-tuning into generative fine-tuning, aligning the pre-training objective of LLMs with downstream tasks. Our findings unveil that a simple cosine distance OOD detector demonstrates superior efficacy, outperforming other OOD detectors. We provide an intriguing explanation for this phenomenon by highlighting the isotropic nature of the embedding spaces of LLMs, which distinctly contrasts with the anisotropic property observed in smaller BERT family models. The new insight enhances our understanding of how LLMs detect OOD data, thereby enhancing their adaptability and reliability in dynamic environments. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Turning Waste into Wealth: Leveraging Low-Quality Samples for Enhancing  Continuous Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10273  
**Abstract:** Continuous Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (CcGANs) enable generative modeling conditional on continuous scalar variables (termed regression labels). However, they can produce subpar fake images due to limited training data. Although Negative Data Augmentation (NDA) effectively enhances unconditional and class-conditional GANs by introducing anomalies into real training images, guiding the GANs away from low-quality outputs, its impact on CcGANs is limited, as it fails to replicate negative samples that may occur during the CcGAN sampling. We present a novel NDA approach called Dual-NDA specifically tailored for CcGANs to address this problem. Dual-NDA employs two types of negative samples: visually unrealistic images generated from a pre-trained CcGAN and label-inconsistent images created by manipulating real images' labels. Leveraging these negative samples, we introduce a novel discriminator objective alongside a modified CcGAN training algorithm. Empirical analysis on UTKFace and Steering Angle reveals that Dual-NDA consistently enhances the visual fidelity and label consistency of fake images generated by CcGANs, exhibiting a substantial performance gain over the vanilla NDA. Moreover, by applying Dual-NDA, CcGANs demonstrate a remarkable advancement beyond the capabilities of state-of-the-art conditional GANs and diffusion models, establishing a new pinnacle of performance. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** MacFormer: Map-Agent Coupled Transformer for Real-time and Robust  Trajectory Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10280  
**Abstract:** Predicting the future behavior of agents is a fundamental task in autonomous vehicle domains. Accurate prediction relies on comprehending the surrounding map, which significantly regularizes agent behaviors. However, existing methods have limitations in exploiting the map and exhibit a strong dependence on historical trajectories, which yield unsatisfactory prediction performance and robustness. Additionally, their heavy network architectures impede real-time applications. To tackle these problems, we propose Map-Agent Coupled Transformer (MacFormer) for real-time and robust trajectory prediction. Our framework explicitly incorporates map constraints into the network via two carefully designed modules named coupled map and reference extractor. A novel multi-task optimization strategy (MTOS) is presented to enhance learning of topology and rule constraints. We also devise bilateral query scheme in context fusion for a more efficient and lightweight network. We evaluated our approach on Argoverse 1, Argoverse 2, and nuScenes real-world benchmarks, where it all achieved state-of-the-art performance with the lowest inference latency and smallest model size. Experiments also demonstrate that our framework is resilient to imperfect tracklet inputs. Furthermore, we show that by combining with our proposed strategies, classical models outperform their baselines, further validating the versatility of our framework. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Enhancing Spatiotemporal Traffic Prediction through Urban Human Activity  Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10282  
**Abstract:** Traffic prediction is one of the key elements to ensure the safety and convenience of citizens. Existing traffic prediction models primarily focus on deep learning architectures to capture spatial and temporal correlation. They often overlook the underlying nature of traffic. Specifically, the sensor networks in most traffic datasets do not accurately represent the actual road network exploited by vehicles, failing to provide insights into the traffic patterns in urban activities. To overcome these limitations, we propose an improved traffic prediction method based on graph convolution deep learning algorithms. We leverage human activity frequency data from National Household Travel Survey to enhance the inference capability of a causal relationship between activity and traffic patterns. Despite making minimal modifications to the conventional graph convolutional recurrent networks and graph convolutional transformer architectures, our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance without introducing excessive computational overhead. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** DVGaze: Dual-View Gaze Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10310  
**Abstract:** Gaze estimation methods estimate gaze from facial appearance with a single camera. However, due to the limited view of a single camera, the captured facial appearance cannot provide complete facial information and thus complicate the gaze estimation problem. Recently, camera devices are rapidly updated. Dual cameras are affordable for users and have been integrated in many devices. This development suggests that we can further improve gaze estimation performance with dual-view gaze estimation. In this paper, we propose a dual-view gaze estimation network (DV-Gaze). DV-Gaze estimates dual-view gaze directions from a pair of images. We first propose a dual-view interactive convolution (DIC) block in DV-Gaze. DIC blocks exchange dual-view information during convolution in multiple feature scales. It fuses dual-view features along epipolar lines and compensates for the original feature with the fused feature. We further propose a dual-view transformer to estimate gaze from dual-view features. Camera poses are encoded to indicate the position information in the transformer. We also consider the geometric relation between dual-view gaze directions and propose a dual-view gaze consistency loss for DV-Gaze. DV-Gaze achieves state-of-the-art performance on ETH-XGaze and EVE datasets. Our experiments also prove the potential of dual-view gaze estimation. We release codes in https://github.com/yihuacheng/DVGaze. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Improving Adversarial Robustness of Masked Autoencoders via Test-time  Frequency-domain Prompting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10315  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we investigate the adversarial robustness of vision transformers that are equipped with BERT pretraining (\eg, BEiT, MAE). A surprising observation is that MAE has significantly worse adversarial robustness than other BERT pretraining methods. This observation drives us to rethink the basic differences between these BERT pretraining methods and how these differences affect the robustness against adversarial perturbations. Our empirical analysis reveals that the adversarial robustness of BERT pretraining is highly related to the reconstruction target, \ie, predicting the raw pixels of masked image patches will degrade more adversarial robustness of the model than predicting the semantic context, since it guides the model to concentrate more on medium-/high-frequency components of images. Based on our analysis, we provide a simple yet effective way to boost the adversarial robustness of MAE. The basic idea is using the dataset-extracted domain knowledge to occupy the medium-/high-frequency of images, thus narrowing the optimization space of adversarial perturbations. Specifically, we group the distribution of pretraining data and optimize a set of cluster-specific visual prompts on frequency domain. These prompts are incorporated with input images through prototype-based prompt selection during test period. Extensive evaluation shows that our method clearly boost MAE's adversarial robustness while maintaining its clean performance on ImageNet-1k classification. Our code is available at: \href{https://github.com/shikiw/RobustMAE}{https://github.com/shikiw/RobustMAE}. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** Towards Real-World Visual Tracking with Temporal Contexts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10330  
**Abstract:** Visual tracking has made significant improvements in the past few decades. Most existing state-of-the-art trackers 1) merely aim for performance in ideal conditions while overlooking the real-world conditions; 2) adopt the tracking-by-detection paradigm, neglecting rich temporal contexts; 3) only integrate the temporal information into the template, where temporal contexts among consecutive frames are far from being fully utilized. To handle those problems, we propose a two-level framework (TCTrack) that can exploit temporal contexts efficiently. Based on it, we propose a stronger version for real-world visual tracking, i.e., TCTrack++. It boils down to two levels: features and similarity maps. Specifically, for feature extraction, we propose an attention-based temporally adaptive convolution to enhance the spatial features using temporal information, which is achieved by dynamically calibrating the convolution weights. For similarity map refinement, we introduce an adaptive temporal transformer to encode the temporal knowledge efficiently and decode it for the accurate refinement of the similarity map. To further improve the performance, we additionally introduce a curriculum learning strategy. Also, we adopt online evaluation to measure performance in real-world conditions. Exhaustive experiments on 8 wellknown benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of TCTrack++. Real-world tests directly verify that TCTrack++ can be readily used in real-world applications. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** Coordinate Transformer: Achieving Single-stage Multi-person Mesh  Recovery from Videos  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10334  
**Abstract:** Multi-person 3D mesh recovery from videos is a critical first step towards automatic perception of group behavior in virtual reality, physical therapy and beyond. However, existing approaches rely on multi-stage paradigms, where the person detection and tracking stages are performed in a multi-person setting, while temporal dynamics are only modeled for one person at a time. Consequently, their performance is severely limited by the lack of inter-person interactions in the spatial-temporal mesh recovery, as well as by detection and tracking defects. To address these challenges, we propose the Coordinate transFormer (CoordFormer) that directly models multi-person spatial-temporal relations and simultaneously performs multi-mesh recovery in an end-to-end manner. Instead of partitioning the feature map into coarse-scale patch-wise tokens, CoordFormer leverages a novel Coordinate-Aware Attention to preserve pixel-level spatial-temporal coordinate information. Additionally, we propose a simple, yet effective Body Center Attention mechanism to fuse position information. Extensive experiments on the 3DPW dataset demonstrate that CoordFormer significantly improves the state-of-the-art, outperforming the previously best results by 4.2%, 8.8% and 4.7% according to the MPJPE, PAMPJPE, and PVE metrics, respectively, while being 40% faster than recent video-based approaches. The released code can be found at https://github.com/Li-Hao-yuan/CoordFormer. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** A Study on Robustness and Reliability of Large Language Model Code  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10335  
**Abstract:** Recently, the large language models (LLMs) have shown extraordinary ability in understanding natural language and generating programming code. It has been a common practice of software engineers to consult LLMs when encountering coding questions. Although efforts have been made to avoid syntax errors and align the code with the intended semantics, the reliability and robustness of the code generationfrom LLMs have not yet been thoroughly studied. The executable code is not equivalent to the reliable and robust code, especially in the context of real-world software development.The misuse of APIs in the generated code could lead to severe problem, such as resource leaks, program crashes, etc.To make things worse, the users of LLM code generation services are actually the developers that are most vulnerable to these code that seems right -- They are always novice developers that are not familiar with the APIs that LLMs generate code for them. Therefore, they could hardly tell the misuse in the code generated by LLMs, which further facilitates the incorrect code applied in real-world software. Existing code evaluation benchmark and datasets focus on crafting small tasks such as programming questions in coding interviews, which however deviates from the problem that developers would ask LLM for real-world coding help. To fill the missing piece, in this work, we propose a dataset RobustAPI for evaluating the reliability and robustness of code generated by LLMs. We collect 1208 coding questions from StackOverflow on 24 representative Java APIs. We summarize thecommon misuse patterns of these APIs and evaluate them oncurrent popular LLMs. The evaluation results show that evenfor GPT-4, 62% of the generated code contains API misuses,which would cause unexpected consequences if the code isintroduced into real-world software. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Strata-NeRF : Neural Radiance Fields for Stratified Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10337  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) approaches learn the underlying 3D representation of a scene and generate photo-realistic novel views with high fidelity. However, most proposed settings concentrate on modelling a single object or a single level of a scene. However, in the real world, we may capture a scene at multiple levels, resulting in a layered capture. For example, tourists usually capture a monument's exterior structure before capturing the inner structure. Modelling such scenes in 3D with seamless switching between levels can drastically improve immersive experiences. However, most existing techniques struggle in modelling such scenes. We propose Strata-NeRF, a single neural radiance field that implicitly captures a scene with multiple levels. Strata-NeRF achieves this by conditioning the NeRFs on Vector Quantized (VQ) latent representations which allow sudden changes in scene structure. We evaluate the effectiveness of our approach in multi-layered synthetic dataset comprising diverse scenes and then further validate its generalization on the real-world RealEstate10K dataset. We find that Strata-NeRF effectively captures stratified scenes, minimizes artifacts, and synthesizes high-fidelity views compared to existing approaches. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Can Large Language Models Find And Fix Vulnerable Software?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10345  
**Abstract:** In this study, we evaluated the capability of Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly OpenAI's GPT-4, in detecting software vulnerabilities, comparing their performance against traditional static code analyzers like Snyk and Fortify. Our analysis covered numerous repositories, including those from NASA and the Department of Defense. GPT-4 identified approximately four times the vulnerabilities than its counterparts. Furthermore, it provided viable fixes for each vulnerability, demonstrating a low rate of false positives. Our tests encompassed 129 code samples across eight programming languages, revealing the highest vulnerabilities in PHP and JavaScript. GPT-4's code corrections led to a 90% reduction in vulnerabilities, requiring only an 11% increase in code lines. A critical insight was LLMs' ability to self-audit, suggesting fixes for their identified vulnerabilities and underscoring their precision. Future research should explore system-level vulnerabilities and integrate multiple static code analyzers for a holistic perspective on LLMs' potential. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** Enhancing Transformers without Self-supervised Learning: A Loss  Landscape Perspective in Sequential Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10347  
**Abstract:** Transformer and its variants are a powerful class of architectures for sequential recommendation, owing to their ability of capturing a user's dynamic interests from their past interactions. Despite their success, Transformer-based models often require the optimization of a large number of parameters, making them difficult to train from sparse data in sequential recommendation. To address the problem of data sparsity, previous studies have utilized self-supervised learning to enhance Transformers, such as pre-training embeddings from item attributes or contrastive data augmentations. However, these approaches encounter several training issues, including initialization sensitivity, manual data augmentations, and large batch-size memory bottlenecks. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** cantnlp@LT-EDI@RANLP-2023: Homophobia/Transphobia Detection in Social  Media Comments using Spatio-Temporally Retrained Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10370  
**Abstract:** This paper describes our multiclass classification system developed as part of the LTEDI@RANLP-2023 shared task. We used a BERT-based language model to detect homophobic and transphobic content in social media comments across five language conditions: English, Spanish, Hindi, Malayalam, and Tamil. We retrained a transformer-based crosslanguage pretrained language model, XLMRoBERTa, with spatially and temporally relevant social media language data. We also retrained a subset of models with simulated script-mixed social media language data with varied performance. We developed the best performing seven-label classification system for Malayalam based on weighted macro averaged F1 score (ranked first out of six) with variable performance for other language and class-label conditions. We found the inclusion of this spatio-temporal data improved the classification performance for all language and task conditions when compared with the baseline. The results suggests that transformer-based language classification systems are sensitive to register-specific and language-specific retraining. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** Neural Architectures Learning Fourier Transforms, Signal Processing and  Much More....  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10388  
**Abstract:** This report will explore and answer fundamental questions about taking Fourier Transforms and tying it with recent advances in AI and neural architecture. One interpretation of the Fourier Transform is decomposing a signal into its constituent components by projecting them onto complex exponentials. Variants exist, such as discrete cosine transform that does not operate on the complex domain and projects an input signal to only cosine functions oscillating at different frequencies. However, this is a fundamental limitation, and it needs to be more suboptimal. The first one is that all kernels are sinusoidal: What if we could have some kernels adapted or learned according to the problem? What if we can use neural architectures for this? We show how one can learn these kernels from scratch for audio signal processing applications. We find that the neural architecture not only learns sinusoidal kernel shapes but discovers all kinds of incredible signal-processing properties. E.g., windowing functions, onset detectors, high pass filters, low pass filters, modulations, etc. Further, upon analysis of the filters, we find that the neural architecture has a comb filter-like structure on top of the learned kernels. Comb filters that allow harmonic frequencies to pass through are one of the core building blocks/types of filters similar to high-pass, low-pass, and band-pass filters of various traditional signal processing algorithms. Further, we can also use the convolution operation with a signal to be learned from scratch, and we will explore papers in the literature that uses this with that robust Transformer architectures. Further, we would also explore making the learned kernel's content adaptive, i.e., learning different kernels for different inputs. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** Turning a CLIP Model into a Scene Text Spotter  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10408  
**Abstract:** We exploit the potential of the large-scale Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining (CLIP) model to enhance scene text detection and spotting tasks, transforming it into a robust backbone, FastTCM-CR50. This backbone utilizes visual prompt learning and cross-attention in CLIP to extract image and text-based prior knowledge. Using predefined and learnable prompts, FastTCM-CR50 introduces an instance-language matching process to enhance the synergy between image and text embeddings, thereby refining text regions. Our Bimodal Similarity Matching (BSM) module facilitates dynamic language prompt generation, enabling offline computations and improving performance. FastTCM-CR50 offers several advantages: 1) It can enhance existing text detectors and spotters, improving performance by an average of 1.7% and 1.5%, respectively. 2) It outperforms the previous TCM-CR50 backbone, yielding an average improvement of 0.2% and 0.56% in text detection and spotting tasks, along with a 48.5% increase in inference speed. 3) It showcases robust few-shot training capabilities. Utilizing only 10% of the supervised data, FastTCM-CR50 improves performance by an average of 26.5% and 5.5% for text detection and spotting tasks, respectively. 4) It consistently enhances performance on out-of-distribution text detection and spotting datasets, particularly the NightTime-ArT subset from ICDAR2019-ArT and the DOTA dataset for oriented object detection. The code is available at https://github.com/wenwenyu/TCM. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Large Language Models on Wikipedia-Style Survey Generation: an  Evaluation in NLP Concepts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10410  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved significant success across various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, encompassing question-answering, summarization, and machine translation, among others. While LLMs excel in general tasks, their efficacy in domain-specific applications remains under exploration. Additionally, LLM-generated text sometimes exhibits issues like hallucination and disinformation. In this study, we assess LLMs' capability of producing concise survey articles within the computer science-NLP domain, focusing on 20 chosen topics. Automated evaluations indicate that GPT-4 outperforms GPT-3.5 when benchmarked against the ground truth. Furthermore, four human evaluators provide insights from six perspectives across four model configurations. Through case studies, we demonstrate that while GPT often yields commendable results, there are instances of shortcomings, such as incomplete information and the exhibition of lapses in factual accuracy. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** TokenSplit: Using Discrete Speech Representations for Direct, Refined,  and Transcript-Conditioned Speech Separation and Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10415  
**Abstract:** We present TokenSplit, a speech separation model that acts on discrete token sequences. The model is trained on multiple tasks simultaneously: separate and transcribe each speech source, and generate speech from text. The model operates on transcripts and audio token sequences and achieves multiple tasks through masking of inputs. The model is a sequence-to-sequence encoder-decoder model that uses the Transformer architecture. We also present a "refinement" version of the model that predicts enhanced audio tokens from the audio tokens of speech separated by a conventional separation model. Using both objective metrics and subjective MUSHRA listening tests, we show that our model achieves excellent performance in terms of separation, both with or without transcript conditioning. We also measure the automatic speech recognition (ASR) performance and provide audio samples of speech synthesis to demonstrate the additional utility of our model. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** UniM$^2$AE: Multi-modal Masked Autoencoders with Unified 3D  Representation for 3D Perception in Autonomous Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10421  
**Abstract:** Masked Autoencoders (MAE) play a pivotal role in learning potent representations, delivering outstanding results across various 3D perception tasks essential for autonomous driving. In real-world driving scenarios, it's commonplace to deploy multiple sensors for comprehensive environment perception. While integrating multi-modal features from these sensors can produce rich and powerful features, there is a noticeable gap in MAE methods addressing this integration. This research delves into multi-modal Masked Autoencoders tailored for a unified representation space in autonomous driving, aiming to pioneer a more efficient fusion of two distinct modalities. To intricately marry the semantics inherent in images with the geometric intricacies of LiDAR point clouds, the UniM$^2$AE is proposed. This model stands as a potent yet straightforward, multi-modal self-supervised pre-training framework, mainly consisting of two designs. First, it projects the features from both modalities into a cohesive 3D volume space, ingeniously expanded from the bird's eye view (BEV) to include the height dimension. The extension makes it possible to back-project the informative features, obtained by fusing features from both modalities, into their native modalities to reconstruct the multiple masked inputs. Second, the Multi-modal 3D Interactive Module (MMIM) is invoked to facilitate the efficient inter-modal interaction during the interaction process. Extensive experiments conducted on the nuScenes Dataset attest to the efficacy of UniM$^2$AE, indicating enhancements in 3D object detection and BEV map segmentation by 1.2\%(NDS) and 6.5\% (mIoU), respectively. Code is available at https://github.com/hollow-503/UniM2AE. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Spatio-Temporal Adaptive Embedding Makes Vanilla Transformer SOTA for  Traffic Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10425  
**Abstract:** With the rapid development of the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), accurate traffic forecasting has emerged as a critical challenge. The key bottleneck lies in capturing the intricate spatio-temporal traffic patterns. In recent years, numerous neural networks with complicated architectures have been proposed to address this issue. However, the advancements in network architectures have encountered diminishing performance gains. In this study, we present a novel component called spatio-temporal adaptive embedding that can yield outstanding results with vanilla transformers. Our proposed Spatio-Temporal Adaptive Embedding transformer (STAEformer) achieves state-of-the-art performance on five real-world traffic forecasting datasets. Further experiments demonstrate that spatio-temporal adaptive embedding plays a crucial role in traffic forecasting by effectively capturing intrinsic spatio-temporal relations and chronological information in traffic time series. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** GPT-in-the-Loop: Adaptive Decision-Making for Multiagent Systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10435  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces the "GPT-in-the-loop" approach, a novel method combining the advanced reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) like Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT) with multiagent (MAS) systems. Venturing beyond traditional adaptive approaches that generally require long training processes, our framework employs GPT-4 for enhanced problem-solving and explanation skills. Our experimental backdrop is the smart streetlight Internet of Things (IoT) application. Here, agents use sensors, actuators, and neural networks to create an energy-efficient lighting system. By integrating GPT-4, these agents achieve superior decision-making and adaptability without the need for extensive training. We compare this approach with both traditional neuroevolutionary methods and solutions provided by software engineers, underlining the potential of GPT-driven multiagent systems in IoT. Structurally, the paper outlines the incorporation of GPT into the agent-driven Framework for the Internet of Things (FIoT), introduces our proposed GPT-in-the-loop approach, presents comparative results in the IoT context, and concludes with insights and future directions. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** DySuse: Susceptibility Estimation in Dynamic Social Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10442  
**Abstract:** Influence estimation aims to predict the total influence spread in social networks and has received surged attention in recent years. Most current studies focus on estimating the total number of influenced users in a social network, and neglect susceptibility estimation that aims to predict the probability of each user being influenced from the individual perspective. As a more fine-grained estimation task, susceptibility estimation is full of attractiveness and practical value. Based on the significance of susceptibility estimation and dynamic properties of social networks, we propose a task, called susceptibility estimation in dynamic social networks, which is even more realistic and valuable in real-world applications. Susceptibility estimation in dynamic networks has yet to be explored so far and is computationally intractable to naively adopt Monte Carlo simulation to obtain the results. To this end, we propose a novel end-to-end framework DySuse based on dynamic graph embedding technology. Specifically, we leverage a structural feature module to independently capture the structural information of influence diffusion on each single graph snapshot. Besides, {we propose the progressive mechanism according to the property of influence diffusion,} to couple the structural and temporal information during diffusion tightly. Moreover, a self-attention block {is designed to} further capture temporal dependency by flexibly weighting historical timestamps. Experimental results show that our framework is superior to the existing dynamic graph embedding models and has satisfactory prediction performance in multiple influence diffusion models. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Using Large Language Models for Cybersecurity Capture-The-Flag  Challenges and Certification Questions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10443  
**Abstract:** The assessment of cybersecurity Capture-The-Flag (CTF) exercises involves participants finding text strings or ``flags'' by exploiting system vulnerabilities. Large Language Models (LLMs) are natural-language models trained on vast amounts of words to understand and generate text; they can perform well on many CTF challenges. Such LLMs are freely available to students. In the context of CTF exercises in the classroom, this raises concerns about academic integrity. Educators must understand LLMs' capabilities to modify their teaching to accommodate generative AI assistance. This research investigates the effectiveness of LLMs, particularly in the realm of CTF challenges and questions. Here we evaluate three popular LLMs, OpenAI ChatGPT, Google Bard, and Microsoft Bing. First, we assess the LLMs' question-answering performance on five Cisco certifications with varying difficulty levels. Next, we qualitatively study the LLMs' abilities in solving CTF challenges to understand their limitations. We report on the experience of using the LLMs for seven test cases in all five types of CTF challenges. In addition, we demonstrate how jailbreak prompts can bypass and break LLMs' ethical safeguards. The paper concludes by discussing LLM's impact on CTF exercises and its implications. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Dynamic Strategy Chain: Dynamic Zero-Shot CoT for Long Mental Health  Support Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10444  
**Abstract:** Long counseling Text Generation for Mental health support (LTGM), an innovative and challenging task, aims to provide help-seekers with mental health support through a comprehensive and more acceptable response. The combination of chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting and Large Language Models (LLMs) is employed and get the SOTA performance on various NLP tasks, especially on text generation tasks. Zero-shot CoT prompting is one of the most common methods in CoT prompting. However, in the LTGM task, Zero-shot CoT prompting can not simulate a counselor or provide personalized strategies without effective mental health counseling strategy prompts. To tackle this challenge, we propose a zero-shot Dynamic Strategy Chain (DSC) prompting method. Firstly, we utilize GPT2 to learn the responses written by mental health counselors and dynamically generate mental health counseling strategies tailored to the help-seekers' needs. Secondly, the Zero-shot DSC prompting is constructed according to mental health counseling strategies and the help-seekers' post. Finally, the Zero-shot DSC prompting is employed to guide LLMs in generating more human-like responses for the help-seekers. Both automatic and manual evaluations demonstrate that Zero-shot DSC prompting can deliver more human-like responses than CoT prompting methods on LTGM tasks. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** LDCSF: Local depth convolution-based Swim framework for classifying  multi-label histopathology images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10446  
**Abstract:** Histopathological images are the gold standard for diagnosing liver cancer. However, the accuracy of fully digital diagnosis in computational pathology needs to be improved. In this paper, in order to solve the problem of multi-label and low classification accuracy of histopathology images, we propose a locally deep convolutional Swim framework (LDCSF) to classify multi-label histopathology images. In order to be able to provide local field of view diagnostic results, we propose the LDCSF model, which consists of a Swin transformer module, a local depth convolution (LDC) module, a feature reconstruction (FR) module, and a ResNet module. The Swin transformer module reduces the amount of computation generated by the attention mechanism by limiting the attention to each window. The LDC then reconstructs the attention map and performs convolution operations in multiple channels, passing the resulting feature map to the next layer. The FR module uses the corresponding weight coefficient vectors obtained from the channels to dot product with the original feature map vector matrix to generate representative feature maps. Finally, the residual network undertakes the final classification task. As a result, the classification accuracy of LDCSF for interstitial area, necrosis, non-tumor and tumor reached 0.9460, 0.9960, 0.9808, 0.9847, respectively. Finally, we use the results of multi-label pathological image classification to calculate the tumor-to-stromal ratio, which lays the foundation for the analysis of the microenvironment of liver cancer histopathological images. Second, we released a multilabel histopathology image of liver cancer, our code and data are available at https://github.com/panliangrui/LSF. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** An Effective Method using Phrase Mechanism in Neural Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10482  
**Abstract:** Machine Translation is one of the essential tasks in Natural Language Processing (NLP), which has massive applications in real life as well as contributing to other tasks in the NLP research community. Recently, Transformer -based methods have attracted numerous researchers in this domain and achieved state-of-the-art results in most of the pair languages. In this paper, we report an effective method using a phrase mechanism, PhraseTransformer, to improve the strong baseline model Transformer in constructing a Neural Machine Translation (NMT) system for parallel corpora Vietnamese-Chinese. Our experiments on the MT dataset of the VLSP 2022 competition achieved the BLEU score of 35.3 on Vietnamese to Chinese and 33.2 BLEU scores on Chinese to Vietnamese data. Our code is available at https://github.com/phuongnm94/PhraseTransformer. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** Texture Generation on 3D Meshes with Point-UV Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10490  
**Abstract:** In this work, we focus on synthesizing high-quality textures on 3D meshes. We present Point-UV diffusion, a coarse-to-fine pipeline that marries the denoising diffusion model with UV mapping to generate 3D consistent and high-quality texture images in UV space. We start with introducing a point diffusion model to synthesize low-frequency texture components with our tailored style guidance to tackle the biased color distribution. The derived coarse texture offers global consistency and serves as a condition for the subsequent UV diffusion stage, aiding in regularizing the model to generate a 3D consistent UV texture image. Then, a UV diffusion model with hybrid conditions is developed to enhance the texture fidelity in the 2D UV space. Our method can process meshes of any genus, generating diversified, geometry-compatible, and high-fidelity textures. Code is available at https://cvmi-lab.github.io/Point-UV-Diffusion 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** GradientCoin: A Peer-to-Peer Decentralized Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10502  
**Abstract:** Since 2008, after the proposal of a Bitcoin electronic cash system, Bitcoin has fundamentally changed the economic system over the last decade. Since 2022, large language models (LLMs) such as GPT have outperformed humans in many real-life tasks. However, these large language models have several practical issues. For example, the model is centralized and controlled by a specific unit. One weakness is that if that unit decides to shut down the model, it cannot be used anymore. The second weakness is the lack of guaranteed discrepancy behind this model, as certain dishonest units may design their own models and feed them unhealthy training data. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** An Examination of the Compositionality of Large Generative  Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10509  
**Abstract:** With the success of Large Language Models (LLMs), a surge of Generative Vision-Language Models (GVLMs) have been constructed via multimodal instruction tuning. The tuning recipe substantially deviates from the common contrastive vision-language learning. However, the performance of GVLMs in multimodal compositional reasoning remains largely unexplored, as existing evaluation metrics and benchmarks focus predominantly on assessing contrastive models like CLIP. In this paper, we examine the potential evaluation metrics to assess the GVLMs and hypothesize generative score methods are suitable for evaluating compositionality. In addition, current benchmarks tend to prioritize syntactic correctness over semantics. The presence of morphological bias in these benchmarks can be exploited by GVLMs, leading to ineffective evaluations. To combat this, we define a MorphoBias Score to quantify the morphological bias and propose a novel LLM-based strategy to calibrate the bias. Moreover, a challenging task is added to evaluate the robustness of GVLMs against inherent inclination toward syntactic correctness. We include the calibrated dataset and the task into a new benchmark, namely MOrphologicall De-biased Benchmark (MODE). Our study provides the first unbiased benchmark for the compositionality of GVLMs, facilitating future research in this direction. We will release our code and datasets. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Frequency Compensated Diffusion Model for Real-scene Dehazing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10510  
**Abstract:** Due to distribution shift, deep learning based methods for image dehazing suffer from performance degradation when applied to real-world hazy images. In this paper, we consider a dehazing framework based on conditional diffusion models for improved generalization to real haze. First, we find that optimizing the training objective of diffusion models, i.e., Gaussian noise vectors, is non-trivial. The spectral bias of deep networks hinders the higher frequency modes in Gaussian vectors from being learned and hence impairs the reconstruction of image details. To tackle this issue, we design a network unit, named Frequency Compensation block (FCB), with a bank of filters that jointly emphasize the mid-to-high frequencies of an input signal. We demonstrate that diffusion models with FCB achieve significant gains in both perceptual and distortion metrics. Second, to further boost the generalization performance, we propose a novel data synthesis pipeline, HazeAug, to augment haze in terms of degree and diversity. Within the framework, a solid baseline for blind dehazing is set up where models are trained on synthetic hazy-clean pairs, and directly generalize to real data. Extensive evaluations show that the proposed dehazing diffusion model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on real-world images. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** SeqGPT: An Out-of-the-box Large Language Model for Open Domain Sequence  Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10529  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have shown impressive ability for open-domain NLP tasks. However, LLMs are sometimes too footloose for natural language understanding (NLU) tasks which always have restricted output and input format. Their performances on NLU tasks are highly related to prompts or demonstrations and are shown to be poor at performing several representative NLU tasks, such as event extraction and entity typing. To this end, we present SeqGPT, a bilingual (i.e., English and Chinese) open-source autoregressive model specially enhanced for open-domain natural language understanding. We express all NLU tasks with two atomic tasks, which define fixed instructions to restrict the input and output format but still ``open'' for arbitrarily varied label sets. The model is first instruction-tuned with extremely fine-grained labeled data synthesized by ChatGPT and then further fine-tuned by 233 different atomic tasks from 152 datasets across various domains. The experimental results show that SeqGPT has decent classification and extraction ability, and is capable of performing language understanding tasks on unseen domains. We also conduct empirical studies on the scaling of data and model size as well as on the transfer across tasks. Our model is accessible at https://github.com/Alibaba-NLP/SeqGPT. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** SRFormer: Empowering Regression-Based Text Detection Transformer with  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10531  
**Abstract:** Existing techniques for text detection can be broadly classified into two primary groups: segmentation-based methods and regression-based methods. Segmentation models offer enhanced robustness to font variations but require intricate post-processing, leading to high computational overhead. Regression-based methods undertake instance-aware prediction but face limitations in robustness and data efficiency due to their reliance on high-level representations. In our academic pursuit, we propose SRFormer, a unified DETR-based model with amalgamated Segmentation and Regression, aiming at the synergistic harnessing of the inherent robustness in segmentation representations, along with the straightforward post-processing of instance-level regression. Our empirical analysis indicates that favorable segmentation predictions can be obtained at the initial decoder layers. In light of this, we constrain the incorporation of segmentation branches to the first few decoder layers and employ progressive regression refinement in subsequent layers, achieving performance gains while minimizing additional computational load from the mask. Furthermore, we propose a Mask-informed Query Enhancement module. We take the segmentation result as a natural soft-ROI to pool and extract robust pixel representations, which are then employed to enhance and diversify instance queries. Extensive experimentation across multiple benchmarks has yielded compelling findings, highlighting our method's exceptional robustness, superior training and data efficiency, as well as its state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Joint learning of images and videos with a single Vision Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10533  
**Abstract:** In this study, we propose a method for jointly learning of images and videos using a single model. In general, images and videos are often trained by separate models. We propose in this paper a method that takes a batch of images as input to Vision Transformer IV-ViT, and also a set of video frames with temporal aggregation by late fusion. Experimental results on two image datasets and two action recognition datasets are presented. 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** Improving Diversity in Zero-Shot GAN Adaptation with Semantic Variations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10554  
**Abstract:** Training deep generative models usually requires a large amount of data. To alleviate the data collection cost, the task of zero-shot GAN adaptation aims to reuse well-trained generators to synthesize images of an unseen target domain without any further training samples. Due to the data absence, the textual description of the target domain and the vision-language models, e.g., CLIP, are utilized to effectively guide the generator. However, with only a single representative text feature instead of real images, the synthesized images gradually lose diversity as the model is optimized, which is also known as mode collapse. To tackle the problem, we propose a novel method to find semantic variations of the target text in the CLIP space. Specifically, we explore diverse semantic variations based on the informative text feature of the target domain while regularizing the uncontrolled deviation of the semantic information. With the obtained variations, we design a novel directional moment loss that matches the first and second moments of image and text direction distributions. Moreover, we introduce elastic weight consolidation and a relation consistency loss to effectively preserve valuable content information from the source domain, e.g., appearances. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed methods in ensuring sample diversity in various scenarios of zero-shot GAN adaptation. We also conduct ablation studies to validate the effect of each proposed component. Notably, our model achieves a new state-of-the-art on zero-shot GAN adaptation in terms of both diversity and quality. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** RADIANCE: Radio-Frequency Adversarial Deep-learning Inference for  Automated Network Coverage Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10584  
**Abstract:** Radio-frequency coverage maps (RF maps) are extensively utilized in wireless networks for capacity planning, placement of access points and base stations, localization, and coverage estimation. Conducting site surveys to obtain RF maps is labor-intensive and sometimes not feasible. In this paper, we propose radio-frequency adversarial deep-learning inference for automated network coverage estimation (RADIANCE), a generative adversarial network (GAN) based approach for synthesizing RF maps in indoor scenarios. RADIANCE utilizes a semantic map, a high-level representation of the indoor environment to encode spatial relationships and attributes of objects within the environment and guide the RF map generation process. We introduce a new gradient-based loss function that computes the magnitude and direction of change in received signal strength (RSS) values from a point within the environment. RADIANCE incorporates this loss function along with the antenna pattern to capture signal propagation within a given indoor configuration and generate new patterns under new configuration, antenna (beam) pattern, and center frequency. Extensive simulations are conducted to compare RADIANCE with ray-tracing simulations of RF maps. Our results show that RADIANCE achieves a mean average error (MAE) of 0.09, root-mean-squared error (RMSE) of 0.29, peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) of 10.78, and multi-scale structural similarity index (MS-SSIM) of 0.80. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Age Recommendation from Texts and Sentences for Children  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10586  
**Abstract:** Children have less text understanding capability than adults. Moreover, this capability differs among the children of different ages. Hence, automatically predicting a recommended age based on texts or sentences would be a great benefit to propose adequate texts to children and to help authors writing in the most appropriate way. This paper presents our recent advances on the age recommendation task. We consider age recommendation as a regression task, and discuss the need for appropriate evaluation metrics, study the use of state-of-the-art machine learning model, namely Transformers, and compare it to different models coming from the literature. Our results are also compared with recommendations made by experts. Further, this paper deals with preliminary explainability of the age prediction model by analyzing various linguistic features. We conduct the experiments on a dataset of 3, 673 French texts (132K sentences, 2.5M words). To recommend age at the text level and sentence level, our best models achieve MAE scores of 0.98 and 1.83 respectively on the test set. Also, compared to the recommendations made by experts, our sentence-level recommendation model gets a similar score to the experts, while the text-level recommendation model outperforms the experts by an MAE score of 1.48. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** GaitPT: Skeletons Are All You Need For Gait Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10623  
**Abstract:** The analysis of patterns of walking is an important area of research that has numerous applications in security, healthcare, sports and human-computer interaction. Lately, walking patterns have been regarded as a unique fingerprinting method for automatic person identification at a distance. In this work, we propose a novel gait recognition architecture called Gait Pyramid Transformer (GaitPT) that leverages pose estimation skeletons to capture unique walking patterns, without relying on appearance information. GaitPT adopts a hierarchical transformer architecture that effectively extracts both spatial and temporal features of movement in an anatomically consistent manner, guided by the structure of the human skeleton. Our results show that GaitPT achieves state-of-the-art performance compared to other skeleton-based gait recognition works, in both controlled and in-the-wild scenarios. GaitPT obtains 82.6% average accuracy on CASIA-B, surpassing other works by a margin of 6%. Moreover, it obtains 52.16% Rank-1 accuracy on GREW, outperforming both skeleton-based and appearance-based approaches. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** SCULPT: Shape-Conditioned Unpaired Learning of Pose-dependent Clothed  and Textured Human Meshes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10638  
**Abstract:** We present SCULPT, a novel 3D generative model for clothed and textured 3D meshes of humans. Specifically, we devise a deep neural network that learns to represent the geometry and appearance distribution of clothed human bodies. Training such a model is challenging, as datasets of textured 3D meshes for humans are limited in size and accessibility. Our key observation is that there exist medium-sized 3D scan datasets like CAPE, as well as large-scale 2D image datasets of clothed humans and multiple appearances can be mapped to a single geometry. To effectively learn from the two data modalities, we propose an unpaired learning procedure for pose-dependent clothed and textured human meshes. Specifically, we learn a pose-dependent geometry space from 3D scan data. We represent this as per vertex displacements w.r.t. the SMPL model. Next, we train a geometry conditioned texture generator in an unsupervised way using the 2D image data. We use intermediate activations of the learned geometry model to condition our texture generator. To alleviate entanglement between pose and clothing type, and pose and clothing appearance, we condition both the texture and geometry generators with attribute labels such as clothing types for the geometry, and clothing colors for the texture generator. We automatically generated these conditioning labels for the 2D images based on the visual question answering model BLIP and CLIP. We validate our method on the SCULPT dataset, and compare to state-of-the-art 3D generative models for clothed human bodies. We will release the codebase for research purposes. 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** EVE: Efficient zero-shot text-based Video Editing with Depth Map  Guidance and Temporal Consistency Constraints  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10648  
**Abstract:** Motivated by the superior performance of image diffusion models, more and more researchers strive to extend these models to the text-based video editing task. Nevertheless, current video editing tasks mainly suffer from the dilemma between the high fine-tuning cost and the limited generation capacity. Compared with images, we conjecture that videos necessitate more constraints to preserve the temporal consistency during editing. Towards this end, we propose EVE, a robust and efficient zero-shot video editing method. Under the guidance of depth maps and temporal consistency constraints, EVE derives satisfactory video editing results with an affordable computational and time cost. Moreover, recognizing the absence of a publicly available video editing dataset for fair comparisons, we construct a new benchmark ZVE-50 dataset. Through comprehensive experimentation, we validate that EVE could achieve a satisfactory trade-off between performance and efficiency. We will release our dataset and codebase to facilitate future researchers. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** Co-Speech Gesture Detection through Multi-phase Sequence Labeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10680  
**Abstract:** Gestures are integral components of face-to-face communication. They unfold over time, often following predictable movement phases of preparation, stroke, and retraction. Yet, the prevalent approach to automatic gesture detection treats the problem as binary classification, classifying a segment as either containing a gesture or not, thus failing to capture its inherently sequential and contextual nature. To address this, we introduce a novel framework that reframes the task as a multi-phase sequence labeling problem rather than binary classification. Our model processes sequences of skeletal movements over time windows, uses Transformer encoders to learn contextual embeddings, and leverages Conditional Random Fields to perform sequence labeling. We evaluate our proposal on a large dataset of diverse co-speech gestures in task-oriented face-to-face dialogues. The results consistently demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms strong baseline models in detecting gesture strokes. Furthermore, applying Transformer encoders to learn contextual embeddings from movement sequences substantially improves gesture unit detection. These results highlight our framework's capacity to capture the fine-grained dynamics of co-speech gesture phases, paving the way for more nuanced and accurate gesture detection and analysis. 

**ID:** 94  
**Title:** Unsupervised 3D Pose Estimation with Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion  Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10705  
**Abstract:** Most of the previous 3D human pose estimation work relied on the powerful memory capability of the network to obtain suitable 2D-3D mappings from the training data. Few works have studied the modeling of human posture deformation in motion. In this paper, we propose a new modeling method for human pose deformations and design an accompanying diffusion-based motion prior. Inspired by the field of non-rigid structure-from-motion, we divide the task of reconstructing 3D human skeletons in motion into the estimation of a 3D reference skeleton, and a frame-by-frame skeleton deformation. A mixed spatial-temporal NRSfMformer is used to simultaneously estimate the 3D reference skeleton and the skeleton deformation of each frame from 2D observations sequence, and then sum them to obtain the pose of each frame. Subsequently, a loss term based on the diffusion model is used to ensure that the pipeline learns the correct prior motion knowledge. Finally, we have evaluated our proposed method on mainstream datasets and obtained superior results outperforming the state-of-the-art. 

**ID:** 95  
**Title:** Sensor Fusion by Spatial Encoding for Autonomous Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10707  
**Abstract:** Sensor fusion is critical to perception systems for task domains such as autonomous driving and robotics. Recently, the Transformer integrated with CNN has demonstrated high performance in sensor fusion for various perception tasks. In this work, we introduce a method for fusing data from camera and LiDAR. By employing Transformer modules at multiple resolutions, proposed method effectively combines local and global contextual relationships. The performance of the proposed method is validated by extensive experiments with two adversarial benchmarks with lengthy routes and high-density traffics. The proposed method outperforms previous approaches with the most challenging benchmarks, achieving significantly higher driving and infraction scores. Compared with TransFuser, it achieves 8% and 19% improvement in driving scores for the Longest6 and Town05 Long benchmarks, respectively. 

**ID:** 96  
**Title:** Rethinking Person Re-identification from a Projection-on-Prototypes  Perspective  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10717  
**Abstract:** Person Re-IDentification (Re-ID) as a retrieval task, has achieved tremendous development over the past decade. Existing state-of-the-art methods follow an analogous framework to first extract features from the input images and then categorize them with a classifier. However, since there is no identity overlap between training and testing sets, the classifier is often discarded during inference. Only the extracted features are used for person retrieval via distance metrics. In this paper, we rethink the role of the classifier in person Re-ID, and advocate a new perspective to conceive the classifier as a projection from image features to class prototypes. These prototypes are exactly the learned parameters of the classifier. In this light, we describe the identity of input images as similarities to all prototypes, which are then utilized as more discriminative features to perform person Re-ID. We thereby propose a new baseline ProNet, which innovatively reserves the function of the classifier at the inference stage. To facilitate the learning of class prototypes, both triplet loss and identity classification loss are applied to features that undergo the projection by the classifier. An improved version of ProNet++ is presented by further incorporating multi-granularity designs. Experiments on four benchmarks demonstrate that our proposed ProNet is simple yet effective, and significantly beats previous baselines. ProNet++ also achieves competitive or even better results than transformer-based competitors. 

**ID:** 97  
**Title:** Backdooring Textual Inversion for Concept Censorship  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10718  
**Abstract:** Recent years have witnessed success in AIGC (AI Generated Content). People can make use of a pre-trained diffusion model to generate images of high quality or freely modify existing pictures with only prompts in nature language. More excitingly, the emerging personalization techniques make it feasible to create specific-desired images with only a few images as references. However, this induces severe threats if such advanced techniques are misused by malicious users, such as spreading fake news or defaming individual reputations. Thus, it is necessary to regulate personalization models (i.e., concept censorship) for their development and advancement. 

**ID:** 98  
**Title:** Patch Is Not All You Need  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10729  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformers have achieved great success in computer visions, delivering exceptional performance across various tasks. However, their inherent reliance on sequential input enforces the manual partitioning of images into patch sequences, which disrupts the image's inherent structural and semantic continuity. To handle this, we propose a novel Pattern Transformer (Patternformer) to adaptively convert images to pattern sequences for Transformer input. Specifically, we employ the Convolutional Neural Network to extract various patterns from the input image, with each channel representing a unique pattern that is fed into the succeeding Transformer as a visual token. By enabling the network to optimize these patterns, each pattern concentrates on its local region of interest, thereby preserving its intrinsic structural and semantic information. Only employing the vanilla ResNet and Transformer, we have accomplished state-of-the-art performance on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100, and have achieved competitive results on ImageNet. 

**ID:** 99  
**Title:** On the Adversarial Robustness of Multi-Modal Foundation Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10741  
**Abstract:** Multi-modal foundation models combining vision and language models such as Flamingo or GPT-4 have recently gained enormous interest. Alignment of foundation models is used to prevent models from providing toxic or harmful output. While malicious users have successfully tried to jailbreak foundation models, an equally important question is if honest users could be harmed by malicious third-party content. In this paper we show that imperceivable attacks on images in order to change the caption output of a multi-modal foundation model can be used by malicious content providers to harm honest users e.g. by guiding them to malicious websites or broadcast fake information. This indicates that countermeasures to adversarial attacks should be used by any deployed multi-modal foundation model. 

**ID:** 100  
**Title:** WanJuan: A Comprehensive Multimodal Dataset for Advancing English and  Chinese Large Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10755  
**Abstract:** The rise in popularity of ChatGPT and GPT-4 has significantly accelerated the development of large models, leading to the creation of numerous impressive large language models(LLMs) and multimodal large language models (MLLMs). These cutting-edge models owe their remarkable performance to high-quality data. However, the details of the training data used in leading paradigms are often kept confidential. This lack of transparency, coupled with the scarcity of open-source data, impedes further developments within the community. As a response, this paper presents "Wan Juan", a large-scale multimodal dataset composed of both Chinese and English data, collected from a wide range of web sources. The dataset incorporates text, image-text, and video modalities, with a total volume exceeding 2TB. It was utilized in the training of InternLM, a model that demonstrated significant advantages in multi-dimensional evaluations when compared to models of a similar scale. All data can be accessed at https://opendatalab.org.cn/WanJuan1.0. 

**ID:** 101  
**Title:** DepreSym: A Depression Symptom Annotated Corpus and the Role of LLMs as  Assessors of Psychological Markers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10758  
**Abstract:** Computational methods for depression detection aim to mine traces of depression from online publications posted by Internet users. However, solutions trained on existing collections exhibit limited generalisation and interpretability. To tackle these issues, recent studies have shown that identifying depressive symptoms can lead to more robust models. The eRisk initiative fosters research on this area and has recently proposed a new ranking task focused on developing search methods to find sentences related to depressive symptoms. This search challenge relies on the symptoms specified by the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II), a questionnaire widely used in clinical practice. Based on the participant systems' results, we present the DepreSym dataset, consisting of 21580 sentences annotated according to their relevance to the 21 BDI-II symptoms. The labelled sentences come from a pool of diverse ranking methods, and the final dataset serves as a valuable resource for advancing the development of models that incorporate depressive markers such as clinical symptoms. Due to the complex nature of this relevance annotation, we designed a robust assessment methodology carried out by three expert assessors (including an expert psychologist). Additionally, we explore here the feasibility of employing recent Large Language Models (ChatGPT and GPT4) as potential assessors in this complex task. We undertake a comprehensive examination of their performance, determine their main limitations and analyze their role as a complement or replacement for human annotators. 

**ID:** 102  
**Title:** A Modular and Adaptive System for Business Email Compromise Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10776  
**Abstract:** The growing sophistication of Business Email Compromise (BEC) and spear phishing attacks poses significant challenges to organizations worldwide. The techniques featured in traditional spam and phishing detection are insufficient due to the tailored nature of modern BEC attacks as they often blend in with the regular benign traffic. Recent advances in machine learning, particularly in Natural Language Understanding (NLU), offer a promising avenue for combating such attacks but in a practical system, due to limitations such as data availability, operational costs, verdict explainability requirements or a need to robustly evolve the system, it is essential to combine multiple approaches together. We present CAPE, a comprehensive and efficient system for BEC detection that has been proven in a production environment for a period of over two years. Rather than being a single model, CAPE is a system that combines independent ML models and algorithms detecting BEC-related behaviors across various email modalities such as text, images, metadata and the email's communication context. This decomposition makes CAPE's verdicts naturally explainable. In the paper, we describe the design principles and constraints behind its architecture, as well as the challenges of model design, evaluation and adapting the system continuously through a Bayesian approach that combines limited data with domain knowledge. Furthermore, we elaborate on several specific behavioral detectors, such as those based on Transformer neural architectures. 

**ID:** 103  
**Title:** Zero- and Few-Shot Prompting with LLMs: A Comparative Study with  Fine-tuned Models for Bangla Sentiment Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10783  
**Abstract:** The rapid expansion of the digital world has propelled sentiment analysis into a critical tool across diverse sectors such as marketing, politics, customer service, and healthcare. While there have been significant advancements in sentiment analysis for widely spoken languages, low-resource languages, such as Bangla, remain largely under-researched due to resource constraints. Furthermore, the recent unprecedented performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in various applications highlights the need to evaluate them in the context of low-resource languages. In this study, we present a sizeable manually annotated dataset encompassing 33,605 Bangla news tweets and Facebook comments. We also investigate zero- and few-shot in-context learning with several language models, including Flan-T5, GPT-4, and Bloomz, offering a comparative analysis against fine-tuned models. Our findings suggest that monolingual transformer-based models consistently outperform other models, even in zero and few-shot scenarios. To foster continued exploration, we intend to make this dataset and our research tools publicly available to the broader research community. In the spirit of further research, we plan to make this dataset and our experimental resources publicly accessible to the wider research community. 

**ID:** 104  
**Title:** Pixel Adaptive Deep Unfolding Transformer for Hyperspectral Image  Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10820  
**Abstract:** Hyperspectral Image (HSI) reconstruction has made gratifying progress with the deep unfolding framework by formulating the problem into a data module and a prior module. Nevertheless, existing methods still face the problem of insufficient matching with HSI data. The issues lie in three aspects: 1) fixed gradient descent step in the data module while the degradation of HSI is agnostic in the pixel-level. 2) inadequate prior module for 3D HSI cube. 3) stage interaction ignoring the differences in features at different stages. To address these issues, in this work, we propose a Pixel Adaptive Deep Unfolding Transformer (PADUT) for HSI reconstruction. In the data module, a pixel adaptive descent step is employed to focus on pixel-level agnostic degradation. In the prior module, we introduce the Non-local Spectral Transformer (NST) to emphasize the 3D characteristics of HSI for recovering. Moreover, inspired by the diverse expression of features in different stages and depths, the stage interaction is improved by the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT). Experimental results on both simulated and real scenes exhibit the superior performance of our method compared to state-of-the-art HSI reconstruction methods. The code is released at: https://github.com/MyuLi/PADUT. 

**ID:** 105  
**Title:** Vision Transformer Pruning Via Matrix Decomposition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10839  
**Abstract:** This is a further development of Vision Transformer Pruning via matrix decomposition. The purpose of the Vision Transformer Pruning is to prune the dimension of the linear projection of the dataset by learning their associated importance score in order to reduce the storage, run-time memory, and computational demands. In this paper we further reduce dimension and complexity of the linear projection by implementing and comparing several matrix decomposition methods while preserving the generated important features. We end up selected the Singular Value Decomposition as the method to achieve our goal by comparing the original accuracy scores in the original Github repository and the accuracy scores of using those matrix decomposition methods, including Singular Value Decomposition, four versions of QR Decomposition, and LU factorization. 

**ID:** 106  
**Title:** TranSTYLer: Multimodal Behavioral Style Transfer for Facial and Body  Gestures Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10843  
**Abstract:** This paper addresses the challenge of transferring the behavior expressivity style of a virtual agent to another one while preserving behaviors shape as they carry communicative meaning. Behavior expressivity style is viewed here as the qualitative properties of behaviors. We propose TranSTYLer, a multimodal transformer based model that synthesizes the multimodal behaviors of a source speaker with the style of a target speaker. We assume that behavior expressivity style is encoded across various modalities of communication, including text, speech, body gestures, and facial expressions. The model employs a style and content disentanglement schema to ensure that the transferred style does not interfere with the meaning conveyed by the source behaviors. Our approach eliminates the need for style labels and allows the generalization to styles that have not been seen during the training phase. We train our model on the PATS corpus, which we extended to include dialog acts and 2D facial landmarks. Objective and subjective evaluations show that our model outperforms state of the art models in style transfer for both seen and unseen styles during training. To tackle the issues of style and content leakage that may arise, we propose a methodology to assess the degree to which behavior and gestures associated with the target style are successfully transferred, while ensuring the preservation of the ones related to the source content. 

**ID:** 107  
**Title:** Election Manipulation in Social Networks with Single-Peaked Agents  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10845  
**Abstract:** Several elections run in the last years have been characterized by attempts to manipulate the result of the election through the diffusion of fake or malicious news over social networks. This problem has been recognized as a critical issue for the robustness of our democracy. Analyzing and understanding how such manipulations may occur is crucial to the design of effective countermeasures to these practices. 

**ID:** 108  
**Title:** LatEval: An Interactive LLMs Evaluation Benchmark with Incomplete  Information from Lateral Thinking Puzzles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10855  
**Abstract:** With the continuous evolution and refinement of LLMs, they are endowed with impressive logical reasoning or vertical thinking capabilities. But can they think out of the box? Do they possess proficient lateral thinking abilities? Following the setup of Lateral Thinking Puzzles, we propose a novel evaluation benchmark, LatEval, which assesses the model's lateral thinking within an interactive framework. In our benchmark, we challenge LLMs with 2 aspects: the quality of questions posed by the model and the model's capability to integrate information for problem-solving. We find that nearly all LLMs struggle with employing lateral thinking during interactions. For example, even the most advanced model, GPT-4, exhibits the advantage to some extent, yet still maintain a noticeable gap when compared to human. This evaluation benchmark provides LLMs with a highly challenging and distinctive task that is crucial to an effective AI assistant. 

**ID:** 109  
**Title:** SpikingBERT: Distilling BERT to Train Spiking Language Models Using  Implicit Differentiation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10873  
**Abstract:** Large language Models (LLMs), though growing exceedingly powerful, comprises of orders of magnitude less neurons and synapses than the human brain. However, it requires significantly more power/energy to operate. In this work, we propose a novel bio-inspired spiking language model (LM) which aims to reduce the computational cost of conventional LMs by drawing motivation from the synaptic information flow in the brain. In this paper, we demonstrate a framework that leverages the average spiking rate of neurons at equilibrium to train a neuromorphic spiking LM using implicit differentiation technique, thereby overcoming the non-differentiability problem of spiking neural network (SNN) based algorithms without using any type of surrogate gradient. The steady-state convergence of the spiking neurons also allows us to design a spiking attention mechanism, which is critical in developing a scalable spiking LM. Moreover, the convergence of average spiking rate of neurons at equilibrium is utilized to develop a novel ANN-SNN knowledge distillation based technique wherein we use a pre-trained BERT model as "teacher" to train our "student" spiking architecture. While the primary architecture proposed in this paper is motivated by BERT, the technique can be potentially extended to different kinds of LLMs. Our work is the first one to demonstrate the performance of an operational spiking LM architecture on multiple different tasks in the GLUE benchmark. 

**ID:** 110  
**Title:** Analyzing Transformer Dynamics as Movement through Embedding Space  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10874  
**Abstract:** Transformer language models exhibit intelligent behaviors such as understanding natural language, recognizing patterns, acquiring knowledge, reasoning, planning, reflecting and using tools. This paper explores how their underlying mechanics give rise to intelligent behaviors. We adopt a systems approach to analyze Transformers in detail and develop a mathematical framework that frames their dynamics as movement through embedding space. This novel perspective provides a principled way of thinking about the problem and reveals important insights related to the emergence of intelligence: 

**ID:** 111  
**Title:** Can Language Models Learn to Listen?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10897  
**Abstract:** We present a framework for generating appropriate facial responses from a listener in dyadic social interactions based on the speaker's words. Given an input transcription of the speaker's words with their timestamps, our approach autoregressively predicts a response of a listener: a sequence of listener facial gestures, quantized using a VQ-VAE. Since gesture is a language component, we propose treating the quantized atomic motion elements as additional language token inputs to a transformer-based large language model. Initializing our transformer with the weights of a language model pre-trained only on text results in significantly higher quality listener responses than training a transformer from scratch. We show that our generated listener motion is fluent and reflective of language semantics through quantitative metrics and a qualitative user study. In our evaluation, we analyze the model's ability to utilize temporal and semantic aspects of spoken text. Project page: https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~evonne_ng/projects/text2listen/ 

**ID:** 112  
**Title:** TADA! Text to Animatable Digital Avatars  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10899  
**Abstract:** We introduce TADA, a simple-yet-effective approach that takes textual descriptions and produces expressive 3D avatars with high-quality geometry and lifelike textures, that can be animated and rendered with traditional graphics pipelines. Existing text-based character generation methods are limited in terms of geometry and texture quality, and cannot be realistically animated due to inconsistent alignment between the geometry and the texture, particularly in the face region. To overcome these limitations, TADA leverages the synergy of a 2D diffusion model and an animatable parametric body model. Specifically, we derive an optimizable high-resolution body model from SMPL-X with 3D displacements and a texture map, and use hierarchical rendering with score distillation sampling (SDS) to create high-quality, detailed, holistic 3D avatars from text. To ensure alignment between the geometry and texture, we render normals and RGB images of the generated character and exploit their latent embeddings in the SDS training process. We further introduce various expression parameters to deform the generated character during training, ensuring that the semantics of our generated character remain consistent with the original SMPL-X model, resulting in an animatable character. Comprehensive evaluations demonstrate that TADA significantly surpasses existing approaches on both qualitative and quantitative measures. TADA enables creation of large-scale digital character assets that are ready for animation and rendering, while also being easily editable through natural language. The code will be public for research purposes. 

**ID:** 113  
**Title:** CamP: Camera Preconditioning for Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10902  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can be optimized to obtain high-fidelity 3D scene reconstructions of objects and large-scale scenes. However, NeRFs require accurate camera parameters as input -- inaccurate camera parameters result in blurry renderings. Extrinsic and intrinsic camera parameters are usually estimated using Structure-from-Motion (SfM) methods as a pre-processing step to NeRF, but these techniques rarely yield perfect estimates. Thus, prior works have proposed jointly optimizing camera parameters alongside a NeRF, but these methods are prone to local minima in challenging settings. In this work, we analyze how different camera parameterizations affect this joint optimization problem, and observe that standard parameterizations exhibit large differences in magnitude with respect to small perturbations, which can lead to an ill-conditioned optimization problem. We propose using a proxy problem to compute a whitening transform that eliminates the correlation between camera parameters and normalizes their effects, and we propose to use this transform as a preconditioner for the camera parameters during joint optimization. Our preconditioned camera optimization significantly improves reconstruction quality on scenes from the Mip-NeRF 360 dataset: we reduce error rates (RMSE) by 67% compared to state-of-the-art NeRF approaches that do not optimize for cameras like Zip-NeRF, and by 29% relative to state-of-the-art joint optimization approaches using the camera parameterization of SCNeRF. Our approach is easy to implement, does not significantly increase runtime, can be applied to a wide variety of camera parameterizations, and can straightforwardly be incorporated into other NeRF-like models. 

**ID:** 114  
**Title:** Effects of Convolutional Autoencoder Bottleneck Width on StarGAN-based  Singing Technique Conversion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10021  
**Abstract:** Singing technique conversion (STC) refers to the task of converting from one voice technique to another while leaving the original singer identity, melody, and linguistic components intact. Previous STC studies, as well as singing voice conversion research in general, have utilized convolutional autoencoders (CAEs) for conversion, but how the bottleneck width of the CAE affects the synthesis quality has not been thoroughly evaluated. To this end, we constructed a GAN-based multi-domain STC system which took advantage of the WORLD vocoder representation and the CAE architecture. We varied the bottleneck width of the CAE, and evaluated the conversion results subjectively. The model was trained on a Mandarin dataset which features four singers and four singing techniques: the chest voice, the falsetto, the raspy voice, and the whistle voice. The results show that a wider bottleneck corresponds to better articulation clarity but does not necessarily lead to higher likeness to the target technique. Among the four techniques, we also found that the whistle voice is the easiest target for conversion, while the other three techniques as a source produce more convincing conversion results than the whistle. 

**ID:** 115  
**Title:** Polymerized Feature-based Domain Adaptation for Cervical Cancer Dose Map  Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10142  
**Abstract:** Recently, deep learning (DL) has automated and accelerated the clinical radiation therapy (RT) planning significantly by predicting accurate dose maps. However, most DL-based dose map prediction methods are data-driven and not applicable for cervical cancer where only a small amount of data is available. To address this problem, this paper proposes to transfer the rich knowledge learned from another cancer, i.e., rectum cancer, which has the same scanning area and more clinically available data, to improve the dose map prediction performance for cervical cancer through domain adaptation. In order to close the congenital domain gap between the source (i.e., rectum cancer) and the target (i.e., cervical cancer) domains, we develop an effective Transformer-based polymerized feature module (PFM), which can generate an optimal polymerized feature distribution to smoothly align the two input distributions. Experimental results on two in-house clinical datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method compared with state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 116  
**Title:** Contrastive Diffusion Model with Auxiliary Guidance for Coarse-to-Fine  PET Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10157  
**Abstract:** To obtain high-quality positron emission tomography (PET) scans while reducing radiation exposure to the human body, various approaches have been proposed to reconstruct standard-dose PET (SPET) images from low-dose PET (LPET) images. One widely adopted technique is the generative adversarial networks (GANs), yet recently, diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) have emerged as a compelling alternative due to their improved sample quality and higher log-likelihood scores compared to GANs. Despite this, DPMs suffer from two major drawbacks in real clinical settings, i.e., the computationally expensive sampling process and the insufficient preservation of correspondence between the conditioning LPET image and the reconstructed PET (RPET) image. To address the above limitations, this paper presents a coarse-to-fine PET reconstruction framework that consists of a coarse prediction module (CPM) and an iterative refinement module (IRM). The CPM generates a coarse PET image via a deterministic process, and the IRM samples the residual iteratively. By delegating most of the computational overhead to the CPM, the overall sampling speed of our method can be significantly improved. Furthermore, two additional strategies, i.e., an auxiliary guidance strategy and a contrastive diffusion strategy, are proposed and integrated into the reconstruction process, which can enhance the correspondence between the LPET image and the RPET image, further improving clinical reliability. Extensive experiments on two human brain PET datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art PET reconstruction methods. The source code is available at \url{https://github.com/Show-han/PET-Reconstruction}. 

**ID:** 117  
**Title:** Karma: Adaptive Video Streaming via Causal Sequence Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10230  
**Abstract:** Optimal adaptive bitrate (ABR) decision depends on a comprehensive characterization of state transitions that involve interrelated modalities over time including environmental observations, returns, and actions. However, state-of-the-art learning-based ABR algorithms solely rely on past observations to decide the next action. This paradigm tends to cause a chain of deviations from optimal action when encountering unfamiliar observations, which consequently undermines the model generalization. This paper presents Karma, an ABR algorithm that utilizes causal sequence modeling to improve generalization by comprehending the interrelated causality among past observations, returns, and actions and timely refining action when deviation occurs. Unlike direct observation-to-action mapping, Karma recurrently maintains a multi-dimensional time series of observations, returns, and actions as input and employs causal sequence modeling via a decision transformer to determine the next action. In the input sequence, Karma uses the maximum cumulative future quality of experience (QoE) (a.k.a, QoE-to-go) as an extended return signal, which is periodically estimated based on current network conditions and playback status. We evaluate Karma through trace-driven simulations and real-world field tests, demonstrating superior performance compared to existing state-of-the-art ABR algorithms, with an average QoE improvement ranging from 10.8% to 18.7% across diverse network conditions. Furthermore, Karma exhibits strong generalization capabilities, showing leading performance under unseen networks in both simulations and real-world tests. 

**ID:** 118  
**Title:** The DKU-DUKEECE System for the Manipulation Region Location Task of ADD  2023  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10281  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces our system designed for Track 2, which focuses on locating manipulated regions, in the second Audio Deepfake Detection Challenge (ADD 2023). Our approach involves the utilization of multiple detection systems to identify splicing regions and determine their authenticity. Specifically, we train and integrate two frame-level systems: one for boundary detection and the other for deepfake detection. Additionally, we employ a third VAE model trained exclusively on genuine data to determine the authenticity of a given audio clip. Through the fusion of these three systems, our top-performing solution for the ADD challenge achieves an impressive 82.23% sentence accuracy and an F1 score of 60.66%. This results in a final ADD score of 0.6713, securing the first rank in Track 2 of ADD 2023. 

**ID:** 119  
**Title:** Multi-GradSpeech: Towards Diffusion-based Multi-Speaker Text-to-speech  Using Consistent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10428  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in diffusion-based acoustic models have revolutionized data-sufficient single-speaker Text-to-Speech (TTS) approaches, with Grad-TTS being a prime example. However, diffusion models suffer from drift in training and sampling distributions due to imperfect score-matching. The sampling drift problem leads to these approaches struggling in multi-speaker scenarios in practice. In this paper, we present Multi-GradSpeech, a multi-speaker diffusion-based acoustic models which introduces the Consistent Diffusion Model (CDM) as a generative modeling approach. We enforce the consistency property of CDM during the training process to alleviate the sampling drift problem in the inference stage, resulting in significant improvements in multi-speaker TTS performance. Our experimental results corroborate that our proposed approach can improve the performance of different speakers involved in multi-speaker TTS compared to Grad-TTS, even outperforming the fine-tuning approach. Audio samples are available at https://welkinyang.github.io/multi-gradspeech/ 

**ID:** 120  
**Title:** Deep Learning of Delay-Compensated Backstepping for Reaction-Diffusion  PDEs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10501  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks that approximate nonlinear function-to-function mappings, i.e., operators, which are called DeepONet, have been demonstrated in recent articles to be capable of encoding entire PDE control methodologies, such as backstepping, so that, for each new functional coefficient of a PDE plant, the backstepping gains are obtained through a simple function evaluation. These initial results have been limited to single PDEs from a given class, approximating the solutions of only single-PDE operators for the gain kernels. In this paper we expand this framework to the approximation of multiple (cascaded) nonlinear operators. Multiple operators arise in the control of PDE systems from distinct PDE classes, such as the system in this paper: a reaction-diffusion plant, which is a parabolic PDE, with input delay, which is a hyperbolic PDE. The DeepONet-approximated nonlinear operator is a cascade/composition of the operators defined by one hyperbolic PDE of the Goursat form and one parabolic PDE on a rectangle, both of which are bilinear in their input functions and not explicitly solvable. For the delay-compensated PDE backstepping controller, which employs the learned control operator, namely, the approximated gain kernel, we guarantee exponential stability in the $L^2$ norm of the plant state and the $H^1$ norm of the input delay state. Simulations illustrate the contributed theory. 

