**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Diffusion Model as Representation Learner  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10916  
**Abstract:** Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DPMs) have recently demonstrated impressive results on various generative tasks.Despite its promises, the learned representations of pre-trained DPMs, however, have not been fully understood. In this paper, we conduct an in-depth investigation of the representation power of DPMs, and propose a novel knowledge transfer method that leverages the knowledge acquired by generative DPMs for recognition tasks. Our study begins by examining the feature space of DPMs, revealing that DPMs are inherently denoising autoencoders that balance the representation learning with regularizing model capacity. To this end, we introduce a novel knowledge transfer paradigm named RepFusion. Our paradigm extracts representations at different time steps from off-the-shelf DPMs and dynamically employs them as supervision for student networks, in which the optimal time is determined through reinforcement learning. We evaluate our approach on several image classification, semantic segmentation, and landmark detection benchmarks, and demonstrate that it outperforms state-of-the-art methods. Our results uncover the potential of DPMs as a powerful tool for representation learning and provide insights into the usefulness of generative models beyond sample generation. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/Adamdad/Repfusion}. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** "Guinea Pig Trials" Utilizing GPT: A Novel Smart Agent-Based Modeling  Approach for Studying Firm Competition and Collusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10974  
**Abstract:** Firm competition and collusion involve complex dynamics, particularly when considering communication among firms. Such issues can be modeled as problems of complex systems, traditionally approached through experiments involving human subjects or agent-based modeling methods. We propose an innovative framework called Smart Agent-Based Modeling (SABM), wherein smart agents, supported by GPT-4 technologies, represent firms, and interact with one another. We conducted a controlled experiment to study firm price competition and collusion behaviors under various conditions. SABM is more cost-effective and flexible compared to conducting experiments with human subjects. Smart agents possess an extensive knowledge base for decision-making and exhibit human-like strategic abilities, surpassing traditional ABM agents. Furthermore, smart agents can simulate human conversation and be personalized, making them ideal for studying complex situations involving communication. Our results demonstrate that, in the absence of communication, smart agents consistently reach tacit collusion, leading to prices converging at levels higher than the Bertrand equilibrium price but lower than monopoly or cartel prices. When communication is allowed, smart agents achieve a higher-level collusion with prices close to cartel prices. Collusion forms more quickly with communication, while price convergence is smoother without it. These results indicate that communication enhances trust between firms, encouraging frequent small price deviations to explore opportunities for a higher-level win-win situation and reducing the likelihood of triggering a price war. We also assigned different personas to firms to analyze behavioral differences and tested variant models under diverse market structures. The findings showcase the effectiveness and robustness of SABM and provide intriguing insights into competition and collusion. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Leveraging Explainable AI to Analyze Researchers' Aspect-Based Sentiment  about ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11001  
**Abstract:** The groundbreaking invention of ChatGPT has triggered enormous discussion among users across all fields and domains. Among celebration around its various advantages, questions have been raised with regards to its correctness and ethics of its use. Efforts are already underway towards capturing user sentiments around it. But it begs the question as to how the research community is analyzing ChatGPT with regards to various aspects of its usage. It is this sentiment of the researchers that we analyze in our work. Since Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis has usually only been applied on a few datasets, it gives limited success and that too only on short text data. We propose a methodology that uses Explainable AI to facilitate such analysis on research data. Our technique presents valuable insights into extending the state of the art of Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis on newer datasets, where such analysis is not hampered by the length of the text data. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Spectral Graphormer: Spectral Graph-based Transformer for Egocentric  Two-Hand Reconstruction using Multi-View Color Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11015  
**Abstract:** We propose a novel transformer-based framework that reconstructs two high fidelity hands from multi-view RGB images. Unlike existing hand pose estimation methods, where one typically trains a deep network to regress hand model parameters from single RGB image, we consider a more challenging problem setting where we directly regress the absolute root poses of two-hands with extended forearm at high resolution from egocentric view. As existing datasets are either infeasible for egocentric viewpoints or lack background variations, we create a large-scale synthetic dataset with diverse scenarios and collect a real dataset from multi-calibrated camera setup to verify our proposed multi-view image feature fusion strategy. To make the reconstruction physically plausible, we propose two strategies: (i) a coarse-to-fine spectral graph convolution decoder to smoothen the meshes during upsampling and (ii) an optimisation-based refinement stage at inference to prevent self-penetrations. Through extensive quantitative and qualitative evaluations, we show that our framework is able to produce realistic two-hand reconstructions and demonstrate the generalisation of synthetic-trained models to real data, as well as real-time AR/VR applications. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Unlocking Hardware Security Assurance: The Potential of LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11042  
**Abstract:** System-on-Chips (SoCs) form the crux of modern computing systems. SoCs enable high-level integration through the utilization of multiple Intellectual Property (IP) cores. However, the integration of multiple IP cores also presents unique challenges owing to their inherent vulnerabilities, thereby compromising the security of the entire system. Hence, it is imperative to perform hardware security validation to address these concerns. The efficiency of this validation procedure is contingent on the quality of the SoC security properties provided. However, generating security properties with traditional approaches often requires expert intervention and is limited to a few IPs, thereby resulting in a time-consuming and non-robust process. To address this issue, we, for the first time, propose a novel and automated Natural Language Processing (NLP)-based Security Property Generator (NSPG). Specifically, our approach utilizes hardware documentation in order to propose the first hardware security-specific language model, HS-BERT, for extracting security properties dedicated to hardware design. To evaluate our proposed technique, we trained the HS-BERT model using sentences from RISC-V, OpenRISC, MIPS, OpenSPARC, and OpenTitan SoC documentation. When assessedb on five untrained OpenTitan hardware IP documents, NSPG was able to extract 326 security properties from 1723 sentences. This, in turn, aided in identifying eight security bugs in the OpenTitan SoC design presented in the hardware hacking competition, Hack@DAC 2022. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** UnLoc: A Unified Framework for Video Localization Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11062  
**Abstract:** While large-scale image-text pretrained models such as CLIP have been used for multiple video-level tasks on trimmed videos, their use for temporal localization in untrimmed videos is still a relatively unexplored task. We design a new approach for this called UnLoc, which uses pretrained image and text towers, and feeds tokens to a video-text fusion model. The output of the fusion module are then used to construct a feature pyramid in which each level connects to a head to predict a per-frame relevancy score and start/end time displacements. Unlike previous works, our architecture enables Moment Retrieval, Temporal Localization, and Action Segmentation with a single stage model, without the need for action proposals, motion based pretrained features or representation masking. Unlike specialized models, we achieve state of the art results on all three different localization tasks with a unified approach. Code will be available at: \url{https://github.com/google-research/scenic}. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** PrAIoritize: Learning to Prioritize Smart Contract Bugs and  Vulnerabilities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11082  
**Abstract:** Smart contract vulnerabilities and bugs have become a key concern for software engineers, as they can lead to significant financial losses, reputational damage, and legal issues. Therefore, prioritizing bug fixing for smart contracts is critical to maintaining trust. Due to the lack of tracking tools, prioritizing smart contract-reported bugs is done manually, which is a tedious task, limits bug triaging, and needs specialized knowledge. Towards this end, we propose PrAIoritize; an automated approach for predicting smart contract bug priorities that assist software engineers in prioritizing highly urgent bug reports. PrAIoritize consists of two main phases: 1) automatic labeling, which involves the automatic construction of a smart contract keyword lexicon and the automatic assignment of priority levels to unlabeled bug reports; 2) model construction, which involves feature engineering and designs layers of feed-forward neural networks (FFNNs) and bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM) with multi-class classification to better capture the features of the textual descriptions of bugs and predict their priority levels. The model then is trained using smart contract bug reports collected from two data sources: open-source software (OSS) projects available on GitHub and NVD vulnerability database. Our evaluation demonstrates significant improvement over state-of-the-art baselines and commonly used pre-trained models (e.g. BERT) for similar classification tasks, with 5.75%-35.29% increase in F-measure, precision, and recall. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Video OWL-ViT: Temporally-consistent open-world localization in video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11093  
**Abstract:** We present an architecture and a training recipe that adapts pre-trained open-world image models to localization in videos. Understanding the open visual world (without being constrained by fixed label spaces) is crucial for many real-world vision tasks. Contrastive pre-training on large image-text datasets has recently led to significant improvements for image-level tasks. For more structured tasks involving object localization applying pre-trained models is more challenging. This is particularly true for video tasks, where task-specific data is limited. We show successful transfer of open-world models by building on the OWL-ViT open-vocabulary detection model and adapting it to video by adding a transformer decoder. The decoder propagates object representations recurrently through time by using the output tokens for one frame as the object queries for the next. Our model is end-to-end trainable on video data and enjoys improved temporal consistency compared to tracking-by-detection baselines, while retaining the open-world capabilities of the backbone detector. We evaluate our model on the challenging TAO-OW benchmark and demonstrate that open-world capabilities, learned from large-scale image-text pre-training, can be transferred successfully to open-world localization across diverse videos. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Classification of the lunar surface pattern by AI architectures: Does AI  see a rabbit in the Moon?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11107  
**Abstract:** In Asian countries, there is a tradition that a rabbit (the Moon rabbit) lives on the Moon. As the origin of this tradition, usually, two reasons are mentioned. One reason is that the color pattern of the lunar surface is similar to the shape of a rabbit. The other reason is that both the Moon and rabbit are symbols of fertility because the Moon appears and disappears (i.e., waxing and waning) cyclically, and rabbits bear children frequently. Considering the latter reason, is the lunar surface color pattern not similar to a rabbit? Here, the similarity between rabbit and the lunar surface pattern was evaluated using seven AI architectures. In the test by CLIP, assuming that people look at the Moon in the early evening frequently, the lunar surface is more similar to a rabbit than a face at low latitude regions, while it can be classified as face as latitude increases, which is consistent with that the oldest literature about the Moon rabbit was written in India and that there is a culture of human's face in the Moon in Europe. Tested with ImageNet weights, ConvNeXt and CLIP sometimes classified the lunar surface pattern into rabbit with relatively high probabilities. Cultures are generated by our attitude to the environment. Both dynamic and static similarities may be required to induce our imagination. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Random Word Data Augmentation with CLIP for Zero-Shot Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11119  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel method that leverages a visual-language model, CLIP, as a data source for zero-shot anomaly detection. Tremendous efforts have been put towards developing anomaly detectors due to their potential industrial applications. Considering the difficulty in acquiring various anomalous samples for training, most existing methods train models with only normal samples and measure discrepancies from the distribution of normal samples during inference, which requires training a model for each object category. The problem of this inefficient training requirement has been tackled by designing a CLIP-based anomaly detector that applies prompt-guided classification to each part of an image in a sliding window manner. However, the method still suffers from the labor of careful prompt ensembling with known object categories. To overcome the issues above, we propose leveraging CLIP as a data source for training. Our method generates text embeddings with the text encoder in CLIP with typical prompts that include words of normal and anomaly. In addition to these words, we insert several randomly generated words into prompts, which enables the encoder to generate a diverse set of normal and anomalous samples. Using the generated embeddings as training data, a feed-forward neural network learns to extract features of normal and anomaly from CLIP's embeddings, and as a result, a category-agnostic anomaly detector can be obtained without any training images. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance without laborious prompt ensembling in zero-shot setups. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Hey That's Mine Imperceptible Watermarks are Preserved in Diffusion  Generated Outputs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11123  
**Abstract:** Generative models have seen an explosion in popularity with the release of huge generative Diffusion models like Midjourney and Stable Diffusion to the public. Because of this new ease of access, questions surrounding the automated collection of data and issues regarding content ownership have started to build. In this paper we present new work which aims to provide ways of protecting content when shared to the public. We show that a generative Diffusion model trained on data that has been imperceptibly watermarked will generate new images with these watermarks present. We further show that if a given watermark is correlated with a certain feature of the training data, the generated images will also have this correlation. Using statistical tests we show that we are able to determine whether a model has been trained on marked data, and what data was marked. As a result our system offers a solution to protect intellectual property when sharing content online. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Efficient View Synthesis with Neural Radiance Distribution Field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11130  
**Abstract:** Recent work on Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has demonstrated significant advances in high-quality view synthesis. A major limitation of NeRF is its low rendering efficiency due to the need for multiple network forwardings to render a single pixel. Existing methods to improve NeRF either reduce the number of required samples or optimize the implementation to accelerate the network forwarding. Despite these efforts, the problem of multiple sampling persists due to the intrinsic representation of radiance fields. In contrast, Neural Light Fields (NeLF) reduce the computation cost of NeRF by querying only one single network forwarding per pixel. To achieve a close visual quality to NeRF, existing NeLF methods require significantly larger network capacities which limits their rendering efficiency in practice. In this work, we propose a new representation called Neural Radiance Distribution Field (NeRDF) that targets efficient view synthesis in real-time. Specifically, we use a small network similar to NeRF while preserving the rendering speed with a single network forwarding per pixel as in NeLF. The key is to model the radiance distribution along each ray with frequency basis and predict frequency weights using the network. Pixel values are then computed via volume rendering on radiance distributions. Experiments show that our proposed method offers a better trade-off among speed, quality, and network size than existing methods: we achieve a ~254x speed-up over NeRF with similar network size, with only a marginal performance decline. Our project page is at yushuang-wu.github.io/NeRDF. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** SwinV2DNet: Pyramid and Self-Supervision Compounded Feature Learning for  Remote Sensing Images Change Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11159  
**Abstract:** Among the current mainstream change detection networks, transformer is deficient in the ability to capture accurate low-level details, while convolutional neural network (CNN) is wanting in the capacity to understand global information and establish remote spatial relationships. Meanwhile, both of the widely used early fusion and late fusion frameworks are not able to well learn complete change features. Therefore, based on swin transformer V2 (Swin V2) and VGG16, we propose an end-to-end compounded dense network SwinV2DNet to inherit the advantages of both transformer and CNN and overcome the shortcomings of existing networks in feature learning. Firstly, it captures the change relationship features through the densely connected Swin V2 backbone, and provides the low-level pre-changed and post-changed features through a CNN branch. Based on these three change features, we accomplish accurate change detection results. Secondly, combined with transformer and CNN, we propose mixed feature pyramid (MFP) which provides inter-layer interaction information and intra-layer multi-scale information for complete feature learning. MFP is a plug and play module which is experimentally proven to be also effective in other change detection networks. Further more, we impose a self-supervision strategy to guide a new CNN branch, which solves the untrainable problem of the CNN branch and provides the semantic change information for the features of encoder. The state-of-the-art (SOTA) change detection scores and fine-grained change maps were obtained compared with other advanced methods on four commonly used public remote sensing datasets. The code is available at https://github.com/DalongZ/SwinV2DNet. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Improving Misaligned Multi-modality Image Fusion with One-stage  Progressive Dense Registration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11165  
**Abstract:** Misalignments between multi-modality images pose challenges in image fusion, manifesting as structural distortions and edge ghosts. Existing efforts commonly resort to registering first and fusing later, typically employing two cascaded stages for registration,i.e., coarse registration and fine registration. Both stages directly estimate the respective target deformation fields. In this paper, we argue that the separated two-stage registration is not compact, and the direct estimation of the target deformation fields is not accurate enough. To address these challenges, we propose a Cross-modality Multi-scale Progressive Dense Registration (C-MPDR) scheme, which accomplishes the coarse-to-fine registration exclusively using a one-stage optimization, thus improving the fusion performance of misaligned multi-modality images. Specifically, two pivotal components are involved, a dense Deformation Field Fusion (DFF) module and a Progressive Feature Fine (PFF) module. The DFF aggregates the predicted multi-scale deformation sub-fields at the current scale, while the PFF progressively refines the remaining misaligned features. Both work together to accurately estimate the final deformation fields. In addition, we develop a Transformer-Conv-based Fusion (TCF) subnetwork that considers local and long-range feature dependencies, allowing us to capture more informative features from the registered infrared and visible images for the generation of high-quality fused images. Extensive experimental analysis demonstrates the superiority of the proposed method in the fusion of misaligned cross-modality images. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** MISSRec: Pre-training and Transferring Multi-modal Interest-aware  Sequence Representation for Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11175  
**Abstract:** The goal of sequential recommendation (SR) is to predict a user's potential interested items based on her/his historical interaction sequences. Most existing sequential recommenders are developed based on ID features, which, despite their widespread use, often underperform with sparse IDs and struggle with the cold-start problem. Besides, inconsistent ID mappings hinder the model's transferability, isolating similar recommendation domains that could have been co-optimized. This paper aims to address these issues by exploring the potential of multi-modal information in learning robust and generalizable sequence representations. We propose MISSRec, a multi-modal pre-training and transfer learning framework for SR. On the user side, we design a Transformer-based encoder-decoder model, where the contextual encoder learns to capture the sequence-level multi-modal synergy while a novel interest-aware decoder is developed to grasp item-modality-interest relations for better sequence representation. On the candidate item side, we adopt a dynamic fusion module to produce user-adaptive item representation, providing more precise matching between users and items. We pre-train the model with contrastive learning objectives and fine-tune it in an efficient manner. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and flexibility of MISSRec, promising an practical solution for real-world recommendation scenarios. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Knowledge-Aware Prompt Tuning for Generalizable Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11186  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained vision-language models, e.g., CLIP, working with manually designed prompts have demonstrated great capacity of transfer learning. Recently, learnable prompts achieve state-of-the-art performance, which however are prone to overfit to seen classes, failing to generalize to unseen classes. In this paper, we propose a Knowledge-Aware Prompt Tuning (KAPT) framework for vision-language models. Our approach takes inspiration from human intelligence in which external knowledge is usually incorporated into recognizing novel categories of objects. Specifically, we design two complementary types of knowledge-aware prompts for the text encoder to leverage the distinctive characteristics of category-related external knowledge. The discrete prompt extracts the key information from descriptions of an object category, and the learned continuous prompt captures overall contexts. We further design an adaptation head for the visual encoder to aggregate salient attentive visual cues, which establishes discriminative and task-aware visual representations. We conduct extensive experiments on 11 widely-used benchmark datasets and the results verify the effectiveness in few-shot image classification, especially in generalizing to unseen categories. Compared with the state-of-the-art CoCoOp method, KAPT exhibits favorable performance and achieves an absolute gain of 3.22% on new classes and 2.57% in terms of harmonic mean. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** ViLLA: Fine-Grained Vision-Language Representation Learning from  Real-World Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11194  
**Abstract:** Vision-language models (VLMs), such as CLIP and ALIGN, are generally trained on datasets consisting of image-caption pairs obtained from the web. However, real-world multimodal datasets, such as healthcare data, are significantly more complex: each image (e.g. X-ray) is often paired with text (e.g. physician report) that describes many distinct attributes occurring in fine-grained regions of the image. We refer to these samples as exhibiting high pairwise complexity, since each image-text pair can be decomposed into a large number of region-attribute pairings. The extent to which VLMs can capture fine-grained relationships between image regions and textual attributes when trained on such data has not been previously evaluated. The first key contribution of this work is to demonstrate through systematic evaluations that as the pairwise complexity of the training dataset increases, standard VLMs struggle to learn region-attribute relationships, exhibiting performance degradations of up to 37% on retrieval tasks. In order to address this issue, we introduce ViLLA as our second key contribution. ViLLA, which is trained to capture fine-grained region-attribute relationships from complex datasets, involves two components: (a) a lightweight, self-supervised mapping model to decompose image-text samples into region-attribute pairs, and (b) a contrastive VLM to learn representations from generated region-attribute pairs. We demonstrate with experiments across four domains (synthetic, product, medical, and natural images) that ViLLA outperforms comparable VLMs on fine-grained reasoning tasks, such as zero-shot object detection (up to 3.6 AP50 points on COCO and 0.6 mAP points on LVIS) and retrieval (up to 14.2 R-Precision points). 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Novel-view Synthesis and Pose Estimation for Hand-Object Interaction  from Sparse Views  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11198  
**Abstract:** Hand-object interaction understanding and the barely addressed novel view synthesis are highly desired in the immersive communication, whereas it is challenging due to the high deformation of hand and heavy occlusions between hand and object. In this paper, we propose a neural rendering and pose estimation system for hand-object interaction from sparse views, which can also enable 3D hand-object interaction editing. We share the inspiration from recent scene understanding work that shows a scene specific model built beforehand can significantly improve and unblock vision tasks especially when inputs are sparse, and extend it to the dynamic hand-object interaction scenario and propose to solve the problem in two stages. We first learn the shape and appearance prior knowledge of hands and objects separately with the neural representation at the offline stage. During the online stage, we design a rendering-based joint model fitting framework to understand the dynamic hand-object interaction with the pre-built hand and object models as well as interaction priors, which thereby overcomes penetration and separation issues between hand and object and also enables novel view synthesis. In order to get stable contact during the hand-object interaction process in a sequence, we propose a stable contact loss to make the contact region to be consistent. Experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. Code and dataset are available in project webpage https://iscas3dv.github.io/HO-NeRF. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** SegRNN: Segment Recurrent Neural Network for Long-Term Time Series  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11200  
**Abstract:** RNN-based methods have faced challenges in the Long-term Time Series Forecasting (LTSF) domain when dealing with excessively long look-back windows and forecast horizons. Consequently, the dominance in this domain has shifted towards Transformer, MLP, and CNN approaches. The substantial number of recurrent iterations are the fundamental reasons behind the limitations of RNNs in LTSF. To address these issues, we propose two novel strategies to reduce the number of iterations in RNNs for LTSF tasks: Segment-wise Iterations and Parallel Multi-step Forecasting (PMF). RNNs that combine these strategies, namely SegRNN, significantly reduce the required recurrent iterations for LTSF, resulting in notable improvements in forecast accuracy and inference speed. Extensive experiments demonstrate that SegRNN not only outperforms SOTA Transformer-based models but also reduces runtime and memory usage by more than 78%. These achievements provide strong evidence that RNNs continue to excel in LTSF tasks and encourage further exploration of this domain with more RNN-based approaches. The source code is coming soon. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** DiffCloth: Diffusion Based Garment Synthesis and Manipulation via  Structural Cross-modal Semantic Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11206  
**Abstract:** Cross-modal garment synthesis and manipulation will significantly benefit the way fashion designers generate garments and modify their designs via flexible linguistic interfaces.Current approaches follow the general text-to-image paradigm and mine cross-modal relations via simple cross-attention modules, neglecting the structural correspondence between visual and textual representations in the fashion design domain. In this work, we instead introduce DiffCloth, a diffusion-based pipeline for cross-modal garment synthesis and manipulation, which empowers diffusion models with flexible compositionality in the fashion domain by structurally aligning the cross-modal semantics. Specifically, we formulate the part-level cross-modal alignment as a bipartite matching problem between the linguistic Attribute-Phrases (AP) and the visual garment parts which are obtained via constituency parsing and semantic segmentation, respectively. To mitigate the issue of attribute confusion, we further propose a semantic-bundled cross-attention to preserve the spatial structure similarities between the attention maps of attribute adjectives and part nouns in each AP. Moreover, DiffCloth allows for manipulation of the generated results by simply replacing APs in the text prompts. The manipulation-irrelevant regions are recognized by blended masks obtained from the bundled attention maps of the APs and kept unchanged. Extensive experiments on the CM-Fashion benchmark demonstrate that DiffCloth both yields state-of-the-art garment synthesis results by leveraging the inherent structural information and supports flexible manipulation with region consistency. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Hamiltonian GAN  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11216  
**Abstract:** A growing body of work leverages the Hamiltonian formalism as an inductive bias for physically plausible neural network based video generation. The structure of the Hamiltonian ensures conservation of a learned quantity (e.g., energy) and imposes a phase-space interpretation on the low-dimensional manifold underlying the input video. While this interpretation has the potential to facilitate the integration of learned representations in downstream tasks, existing methods are limited in their applicability as they require a structural prior for the configuration space at design time. In this work, we present a GAN-based video generation pipeline with a learned configuration space map and Hamiltonian neural network motion model, to learn a representation of the configuration space from data. We train our model with a physics-inspired cyclic-coordinate loss function which encourages a minimal representation of the configuration space and improves interpretability. We demonstrate the efficacy and advantages of our approach on the Hamiltonian Dynamics Suite Toy Physics dataset. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Evaluating Large Language Models on Graphs: Performance Insights and  Comparative Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11224  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered considerable interest within both academic and industrial. Yet, the application of LLMs to graph data remains under-explored. In this study, we evaluate the capabilities of four LLMs in addressing several analytical problems with graph data. We employ four distinct evaluation metrics: Comprehension, Correctness, Fidelity, and Rectification. Our results show that: 1) LLMs effectively comprehend graph data in natural language and reason with graph topology. 2) GPT models can generate logical and coherent results, outperforming alternatives in correctness. 3) All examined LLMs face challenges in structural reasoning, with techniques like zero-shot chain-of-thought and few-shot prompting showing diminished efficacy. 4) GPT models often produce erroneous answers in multi-answer tasks, raising concerns in fidelity. 5) GPT models exhibit elevated confidence in their outputs, potentially hindering their rectification capacities. Notably, GPT-4 has demonstrated the capacity to rectify responses from GPT-3.5-turbo and its own previous iterations. The code is available at: https://github.com/Ayame1006/LLMtoGraph. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** An Effective Transformer-based Contextual Model and Temporal Gate  Pooling for Speaker Identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11241  
**Abstract:** Wav2vec2 has achieved success in applying Transformer architecture and self-supervised learning to speech recognition. Recently, these have come to be used not only for speech recognition but also for the entire speech processing. This paper introduces an effective end-to-end speaker identification model applied Transformer-based contextual model. We explored the relationship between the parameters and the performance in order to discern the structure of an effective model. Furthermore, we propose a pooling method, Temporal Gate Pooling, with powerful learning ability for speaker identification. We applied Conformer as encoder and BEST-RQ for pre-training and conducted an evaluation utilizing the speaker identification of VoxCeleb1. The proposed method has achieved an accuracy of 85.9% with 28.5M parameters, demonstrating comparable precision to wav2vec2 with 317.7M parameters. Code is available at https://github.com/HarunoriKawano/speaker-identification-with-tgp. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** LEAP: Efficient and Automated Test Method for NLP Software  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11284  
**Abstract:** The widespread adoption of DNNs in NLP software has highlighted the need for robustness. Researchers proposed various automatic testing techniques for adversarial test cases. However, existing methods suffer from two limitations: weak error-discovering capabilities, with success rates ranging from 0% to 24.6% for BERT-based NLP software, and time inefficiency, taking 177.8s to 205.28s per test case, making them challenging for time-constrained scenarios. To address these issues, this paper proposes LEAP, an automated test method that uses LEvy flight-based Adaptive Particle swarm optimization integrated with textual features to generate adversarial test cases. Specifically, we adopt Levy flight for population initialization to increase the diversity of generated test cases. We also design an inertial weight adaptive update operator to improve the efficiency of LEAP's global optimization of high-dimensional text examples and a mutation operator based on the greedy strategy to reduce the search time. We conducted a series of experiments to validate LEAP's ability to test NLP software and found that the average success rate of LEAP in generating adversarial test cases is 79.1%, which is 6.1% higher than the next best approach (PSOattack). While ensuring high success rates, LEAP significantly reduces time overhead by up to 147.6s compared to other heuristic-based methods. Additionally, the experimental results demonstrate that LEAP can generate more transferable test cases and significantly enhance the robustness of DNN-based systems. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Uncertainty Estimation of Transformers' Predictions via Topological  Analysis of the Attention Matrices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11295  
**Abstract:** Determining the degree of confidence of deep learning model in its prediction is an open problem in the field of natural language processing. Most of the classical methods for uncertainty estimation are quite weak for text classification models. We set the task of obtaining an uncertainty estimate for neural networks based on the Transformer architecture. A key feature of such mo-dels is the attention mechanism, which supports the information flow between the hidden representations of tokens in the neural network. We explore the formed relationships between internal representations using Topological Data Analysis methods and utilize them to predict model's confidence. In this paper, we propose a method for uncertainty estimation based on the topological properties of the attention mechanism and compare it with classical methods. As a result, the proposed algorithm surpasses the existing methods in quality and opens up a new area of application of the attention mechanism, but requires the selection of topological features. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** MusicJam: Visualizing Music Insights via Generated Narrative  Illustrations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11329  
**Abstract:** Visualizing the insights of the invisible music is able to bring listeners an enjoyable and immersive listening experience, and therefore has attracted much attention in the field of information visualization. Over the past decades, various music visualization techniques have been introduced. However, most of them are manually designed by following the visual encoding rules, thus shown in form of a graphical visual representation whose visual encoding schema is usually taking effort to understand. Recently, some researchers use figures or illustrations to represent music moods, lyrics, and musical features, which are more intuitive and attractive. However, in these techniques, the figures are usually pre-selected or statically generated, so they cannot precisely convey insights of different pieces of music. To address this issue, in this paper, we introduce MusicJam, a music visualization system that is able to generate narrative illustrations to represent the insight of the input music. The system leverages a novel generation model designed based on GPT-2 to generate meaningful lyrics given the input music and then employs the stable diffusion model to transform the lyrics into coherent illustrations. Finally, the generated results are synchronized and rendered as an MP4 video accompanied by the input music. We evaluated the proposed lyric generation model by comparing it to the baseline models and conducted a user study to estimate the quality of the generated illustrations and the final music videos. The results showed the power of our technique. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Exemplar-Free Continual Transformer with Convolutions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11357  
**Abstract:** Continual Learning (CL) involves training a machine learning model in a sequential manner to learn new information while retaining previously learned tasks without the presence of previous training data. Although there has been significant interest in CL, most recent CL approaches in computer vision have focused on convolutional architectures only. However, with the recent success of vision transformers, there is a need to explore their potential for CL. Although there have been some recent CL approaches for vision transformers, they either store training instances of previous tasks or require a task identifier during test time, which can be limiting. This paper proposes a new exemplar-free approach for class/task incremental learning called ConTraCon, which does not require task-id to be explicitly present during inference and avoids the need for storing previous training instances. The proposed approach leverages the transformer architecture and involves re-weighting the key, query, and value weights of the multi-head self-attention layers of a transformer trained on a similar task. The re-weighting is done using convolution, which enables the approach to maintain low parameter requirements per task. Additionally, an image augmentation-based entropic task identification approach is used to predict tasks without requiring task-ids during inference. Experiments on four benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed approach outperforms several competitive approaches while requiring fewer parameters. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** How Much Temporal Long-Term Context is Needed for Action Segmentation?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11358  
**Abstract:** Modeling long-term context in videos is crucial for many fine-grained tasks including temporal action segmentation. An interesting question that is still open is how much long-term temporal context is needed for optimal performance. While transformers can model the long-term context of a video, this becomes computationally prohibitive for long videos. Recent works on temporal action segmentation thus combine temporal convolutional networks with self-attentions that are computed only for a local temporal window. While these approaches show good results, their performance is limited by their inability to capture the full context of a video. In this work, we try to answer how much long-term temporal context is required for temporal action segmentation by introducing a transformer-based model that leverages sparse attention to capture the full context of a video. We compare our model with the current state of the art on three datasets for temporal action segmentation, namely 50Salads, Breakfast, and Assembly101. Our experiments show that modeling the full context of a video is necessary to obtain the best performance for temporal action segmentation. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Towards an Understanding of Large Language Models in Software  Engineering Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11396  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have drawn widespread attention and research due to their astounding performance in tasks such as text generation and reasoning. Derivative products, like ChatGPT, have been extensively deployed and highly sought after. Meanwhile, the evaluation and optimization of LLMs in software engineering tasks, such as code generation, have become a research focus. However, there is still a lack of systematic research on the application and evaluation of LLMs in the field of software engineering. Therefore, this paper is the first to comprehensively investigate and collate the research and products combining LLMs with software engineering, aiming to answer two questions: (1) What are the current integrations of LLMs with software engineering? (2) Can LLMs effectively handle software engineering tasks? To find the answers, we have collected related literature as extensively as possible from seven mainstream databases, and selected 123 papers for analysis. We have categorized these papers in detail and reviewed the current research status of LLMs from the perspective of seven major software engineering tasks, hoping this will help researchers better grasp the research trends and address the issues when applying LLMs. Meanwhile, we have also organized and presented papers with evaluation content to reveal the performance and effectiveness of LLMs in various software engineering tasks, providing guidance for researchers and developers to optimize. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** MatFuse: Controllable Material Generation with Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11408  
**Abstract:** Creating high quality and realistic materials in computer graphics is a challenging and time-consuming task, which requires great expertise. In this paper, we present MatFuse, a novel unified approach that harnesses the generative power of diffusion models (DM) to simplify the creation of SVBRDF maps. Our DM-based pipeline integrates multiple sources of conditioning, such as color palettes, sketches, and pictures, enabling fine-grained control and flexibility in material synthesis. This design allows for the combination of diverse information sources (e.g., sketch + image embedding), enhancing creative possibilities in line with the principle of compositionality. We demonstrate the generative capabilities of the proposed method under various conditioning settings; on the SVBRDF estimation task, we show that our method yields performance comparable to state-of-the-art approaches, both qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** TurboViT: Generating Fast Vision Transformers via Generative  Architecture Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11421  
**Abstract:** Vision transformers have shown unprecedented levels of performance in tackling various visual perception tasks in recent years. However, the architectural and computational complexity of such network architectures have made them challenging to deploy in real-world applications with high-throughput, low-memory requirements. As such, there has been significant research recently on the design of efficient vision transformer architectures. In this study, we explore the generation of fast vision transformer architecture designs via generative architecture search (GAS) to achieve a strong balance between accuracy and architectural and computational efficiency. Through this generative architecture search process, we create TurboViT, a highly efficient hierarchical vision transformer architecture design that is generated around mask unit attention and Q-pooling design patterns. The resulting TurboViT architecture design achieves significantly lower architectural computational complexity (>2.47$\times$ smaller than FasterViT-0 while achieving same accuracy) and computational complexity (>3.4$\times$ fewer FLOPs and 0.9% higher accuracy than MobileViT2-2.0) when compared to 10 other state-of-the-art efficient vision transformer network architecture designs within a similar range of accuracy on the ImageNet-1K dataset. Furthermore, TurboViT demonstrated strong inference latency and throughput in both low-latency and batch processing scenarios (>3.21$\times$ lower latency and >3.18$\times$ higher throughput compared to FasterViT-0 for low-latency scenario). These promising results demonstrate the efficacy of leveraging generative architecture search for generating efficient transformer architecture designs for high-throughput scenarios. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** AIxArtist: A First-Person Tale of Interacting with Artificial  Intelligence to Escape Creative Block  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11424  
**Abstract:** The future of the arts and artificial intelligence (AI) is promising as technology advances. As the use of AI in design becomes more widespread, art practice may not be a human-only art form and could instead become a digitally integrated experience. With enhanced creativity and collaboration, arts and AI could work together towards creating artistic outputs that are visually appealing and meet the needs of the artist and viewer. While it is uncertain how far the integration will go, arts and AI will likely influence one another. This workshop pictorial puts forward first-person research that shares interactions between an HCI researcher and AI as they try to escape the creative block. The pictorial paper explores two questions: How can AI support artists' creativity, and what does it mean to be explainable in this context? HIs, ChatGPT and Midjourney were engaged; the result was a series of reflections that require further discussion and explorations in the XAIxArts community: Transparency of attribution, the creation process, ethics of asking, and inspiration vs copying. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** SDeMorph: Towards Better Facial De-morphing from Single Morph  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11442  
**Abstract:** Face Recognition Systems (FRS) are vulnerable to morph attacks. A face morph is created by combining multiple identities with the intention to fool FRS and making it match the morph with multiple identities. Current Morph Attack Detection (MAD) can detect the morph but are unable to recover the identities used to create the morph with satisfactory outcomes. Existing work in de-morphing is mostly reference-based, i.e. they require the availability of one identity to recover the other. Sudipta et al. \cite{ref9} proposed a reference-free de-morphing technique but the visual realism of outputs produced were feeble. In this work, we propose SDeMorph (Stably Diffused De-morpher), a novel de-morphing method that is reference-free and recovers the identities of bona fides. Our method produces feature-rich outputs that are of significantly high quality in terms of definition and facial fidelity. Our method utilizes Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) by destroying the input morphed signal and then reconstructing it back using a branched-UNet. Experiments on ASML, FRLL-FaceMorph, FRLL-MorDIFF, and SMDD datasets support the effectiveness of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Convergence guarantee for consistency models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11449  
**Abstract:** We provide the first convergence guarantees for the Consistency Models (CMs), a newly emerging type of one-step generative models that can generate comparable samples to those generated by Diffusion Models. Our main result is that, under the basic assumptions on score-matching errors, consistency errors and smoothness of the data distribution, CMs can efficiently sample from any realistic data distribution in one step with small $W_2$ error. Our results (1) hold for $L^2$-accurate score and consistency assumption (rather than $L^\infty$-accurate); (2) do note require strong assumptions on the data distribution such as log-Sobelev inequality; (3) scale polynomially in all parameters; and (4) match the state-of-the-art convergence guarantee for score-based generative models (SGMs). We also provide the result that the Multistep Consistency Sampling procedure can further reduce the error comparing to one step sampling, which support the original statement of "Consistency Models, Yang Song 2023". Our result further imply a TV error guarantee when take some Langevin-based modifications to the output distributions. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** IT3D: Improved Text-to-3D Generation with Explicit View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11473  
**Abstract:** Recent strides in Text-to-3D techniques have been propelled by distilling knowledge from powerful large text-to-image diffusion models (LDMs). Nonetheless, existing Text-to-3D approaches often grapple with challenges such as over-saturation, inadequate detailing, and unrealistic outputs. This study presents a novel strategy that leverages explicitly synthesized multi-view images to address these issues. Our approach involves the utilization of image-to-image pipelines, empowered by LDMs, to generate posed high-quality images based on the renderings of coarse 3D models. Although the generated images mostly alleviate the aforementioned issues, challenges such as view inconsistency and significant content variance persist due to the inherent generative nature of large diffusion models, posing extensive difficulties in leveraging these images effectively. To overcome this hurdle, we advocate integrating a discriminator alongside a novel Diffusion-GAN dual training strategy to guide the training of 3D models. For the incorporated discriminator, the synthesized multi-view images are considered real data, while the renderings of the optimized 3D models function as fake data. We conduct a comprehensive set of experiments that demonstrate the effectiveness of our method over baseline approaches. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Composed Image Retrieval using Contrastive Learning and Task-oriented  CLIP-based Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11485  
**Abstract:** Given a query composed of a reference image and a relative caption, the Composed Image Retrieval goal is to retrieve images visually similar to the reference one that integrates the modifications expressed by the caption. Given that recent research has demonstrated the efficacy of large-scale vision and language pre-trained (VLP) models in various tasks, we rely on features from the OpenAI CLIP model to tackle the considered task. We initially perform a task-oriented fine-tuning of both CLIP encoders using the element-wise sum of visual and textual features. Then, in the second stage, we train a Combiner network that learns to combine the image-text features integrating the bimodal information and providing combined features used to perform the retrieval. We use contrastive learning in both stages of training. Starting from the bare CLIP features as a baseline, experimental results show that the task-oriented fine-tuning and the carefully crafted Combiner network are highly effective and outperform more complex state-of-the-art approaches on FashionIQ and CIRR, two popular and challenging datasets for composed image retrieval. Code and pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/ABaldrati/CLIP4Cir 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Opening the Vocabulary of Egocentric Actions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11488  
**Abstract:** Human actions in egocentric videos are often hand-object interactions composed from a verb (performed by the hand) applied to an object. Despite their extensive scaling up, egocentric datasets still face two limitations - sparsity of action compositions and a closed set of interacting objects. This paper proposes a novel open vocabulary action recognition task. Given a set of verbs and objects observed during training, the goal is to generalize the verbs to an open vocabulary of actions with seen and novel objects. To this end, we decouple the verb and object predictions via an object-agnostic verb encoder and a prompt-based object encoder. The prompting leverages CLIP representations to predict an open vocabulary of interacting objects. We create open vocabulary benchmarks on the EPIC-KITCHENS-100 and Assembly101 datasets; whereas closed-action methods fail to generalize, our proposed method is effective. In addition, our object encoder significantly outperforms existing open-vocabulary visual recognition methods in recognizing novel interacting objects. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** LCCo: Lending CLIP to Co-Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11506  
**Abstract:** This paper studies co-segmenting the common semantic object in a set of images. Existing works either rely on carefully engineered networks to mine the implicit semantic information in visual features or require extra data (i.e., classification labels) for training. In this paper, we leverage the contrastive language-image pre-training framework (CLIP) for the task. With a backbone segmentation network that independently processes each image from the set, we introduce semantics from CLIP into the backbone features, refining them in a coarse-to-fine manner with three key modules: i) an image set feature correspondence module, encoding global consistent semantic information of the image set; ii) a CLIP interaction module, using CLIP-mined common semantics of the image set to refine the backbone feature; iii) a CLIP regularization module, drawing CLIP towards this co-segmentation task, identifying the best CLIP semantic and using it to regularize the backbone feature. Experiments on four standard co-segmentation benchmark datasets show that the performance of our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Unsupervised Prototype Adapter for Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11507  
**Abstract:** Recently, large-scale pre-trained vision-language models (e.g. CLIP and ALIGN) have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness in acquiring transferable visual representations. To leverage the valuable knowledge encoded within these models for downstream tasks, several fine-tuning approaches, including prompt tuning methods and adapter-based methods, have been developed to adapt vision-language models effectively with supervision. However, these methods rely on the availability of annotated samples, which can be labor-intensive and time-consuming to acquire, thus limiting scalability. To address this issue, in this work, we design an unsupervised fine-tuning approach for vision-language models called Unsupervised Prototype Adapter (UP-Adapter). Specifically, for the unannotated target datasets, we leverage the text-image aligning capability of CLIP to automatically select the most confident samples for each class. Utilizing these selected samples, we generate class prototypes, which serve as the initialization for the learnable prototype model. After fine-tuning, the prototype model prediction is combined with the original CLIP's prediction by a residual connection to perform downstream recognition tasks. Our extensive experimental results on image recognition and domain generalization show that the proposed unsupervised method outperforms 8-shot CoOp, 8-shot Tip-Adapter, and also the state-of-the-art UPL method by large margins. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** SwinFace: A Multi-task Transformer for Face Recognition, Expression  Recognition, Age Estimation and Attribute Estimation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11509  
**Abstract:** In recent years, vision transformers have been introduced into face recognition and analysis and have achieved performance breakthroughs. However, most previous methods generally train a single model or an ensemble of models to perform the desired task, which ignores the synergy among different tasks and fails to achieve improved prediction accuracy, increased data efficiency, and reduced training time. This paper presents a multi-purpose algorithm for simultaneous face recognition, facial expression recognition, age estimation, and face attribute estimation (40 attributes including gender) based on a single Swin Transformer. Our design, the SwinFace, consists of a single shared backbone together with a subnet for each set of related tasks. To address the conflicts among multiple tasks and meet the different demands of tasks, a Multi-Level Channel Attention (MLCA) module is integrated into each task-specific analysis subnet, which can adaptively select the features from optimal levels and channels to perform the desired tasks. Extensive experiments show that the proposed model has a better understanding of the face and achieves excellent performance for all tasks. Especially, it achieves 90.97% accuracy on RAF-DB and 0.22 $\epsilon$-error on CLAP2015, which are state-of-the-art results on facial expression recognition and age estimation respectively. The code and models will be made publicly available at https://github.com/lxq1000/SwinFace. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Optimizing Multi-Class Text Classification: A Diverse Stacking Ensemble  Framework Utilizing Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11519  
**Abstract:** Customer reviews play a crucial role in assessing customer satisfaction, gathering feedback, and driving improvements for businesses. Analyzing these reviews provides valuable insights into customer sentiments, including compliments, comments, and suggestions. Text classification techniques enable businesses to categorize customer reviews into distinct categories, facilitating a better understanding of customer feedback. However, challenges such as overfitting and bias limit the effectiveness of a single classifier in ensuring optimal prediction. This study proposes a novel approach to address these challenges by introducing a stacking ensemble-based multi-text classification method that leverages transformer models. By combining multiple single transformers, including BERT, ELECTRA, and DistilBERT, as base-level classifiers, and a meta-level classifier based on RoBERTa, an optimal predictive model is generated. The proposed stacking ensemble-based multi-text classification method aims to enhance the accuracy and robustness of customer review analysis. Experimental evaluations conducted on a real-world customer review dataset demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed approach over traditional single classifier models. The stacking ensemble-based multi-text classification method using transformers proves to be a promising solution for businesses seeking to extract valuable insights from customer reviews and make data-driven decisions to enhance customer satisfaction and drive continuous improvement. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Self-Deception: Reverse Penetrating the Semantic Firewall of Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11521  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have emerged with astonishing capabilities approaching artificial general intelligence. While providing convenience for various societal needs, LLMs have also lowered the cost of generating harmful content. Consequently, LLM developers have deployed semantic-level defenses to recognize and reject prompts that may lead to inappropriate content. Unfortunately, these defenses are not foolproof, and some attackers have crafted "jailbreak" prompts that temporarily hypnotize the LLM into forgetting content defense rules and answering any improper questions. To date, there is no clear explanation of the principles behind these semantic-level attacks and defenses in both industry and academia. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Learning Representations on Logs for AIOps  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11526  
**Abstract:** AI for IT Operations (AIOps) is a powerful platform that Site Reliability Engineers (SREs) use to automate and streamline operational workflows with minimal human intervention. Automated log analysis is a critical task in AIOps as it provides key insights for SREs to identify and address ongoing faults. Tasks such as log format detection, log classification, and log parsing are key components of automated log analysis. Most of these tasks require supervised learning; however, there are multiple challenges due to limited labelled log data and the diverse nature of log data. Large Language Models (LLMs) such as BERT and GPT3 are trained using self-supervision on a vast amount of unlabeled data. These models provide generalized representations that can be effectively used for various downstream tasks with limited labelled data. Motivated by the success of LLMs in specific domains like science and biology, this paper introduces a LLM for log data which is trained on public and proprietary log data. The results of our experiments demonstrate that the proposed LLM outperforms existing models on multiple downstream tasks. In summary, AIOps powered by LLMs offers an efficient and effective solution for automating log analysis tasks and enabling SREs to focus on higher-level tasks. Our proposed LLM, trained on public and proprietary log data, offers superior performance on multiple downstream tasks, making it a valuable addition to the AIOps platform. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** BERT4CTR: An Efficient Framework to Combine Pre-trained Language Model  with Non-textual Features for CTR Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11527  
**Abstract:** Although deep pre-trained language models have shown promising benefit in a large set of industrial scenarios, including Click-Through-Rate (CTR) prediction, how to integrate pre-trained language models that handle only textual signals into a prediction pipeline with non-textual features is challenging. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Large Language Model as a User Simulator  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11534  
**Abstract:** The unparalleled performance of closed-sourced ChatGPT has sparked efforts towards its democratization, with notable strides made by leveraging real user and ChatGPT conversations, as evidenced by Vicuna. However, while current endeavors like Baize and UltraChat aim to auto-generate conversational data due to challenges in gathering human participation, they primarily rely on ChatGPT to simulate human behaviors based on directives rather than genuine human learning. This results in a limited scope, diminished diversity, and an absence of genuine multi-round conversational dynamics. To address the above issues, we innovatively target human questions extracted from genuine human-machine conversations as a learning goal and train a user simulator, UserGPT, to produce a high-quality human-centric synthetic conversation dataset, RealChat. Subsequently, this dataset trains our assistant model, ReaLM. Experimentally, ReaLM outpaces baseline models in both Vicuna-Bench and MT-Bench by pairwise comparison when considering equivalent training set sizes, and manual evaluation also shows that our model is highly competitive. Impressively, when fine-tuned with the latest LLaMA 2 model, ReaLM secured a leading score of 6.33 in the MT-Bench, outshining the contemporary same-scale models, including the LLaMA-2-7B-chat model. Further in-depth analysis demonstrates the scalability and transferability of our approach. A preliminary exploration into the interplay between training set data quality and resultant model performance is also undertaken, laying a robust groundwork for future investigations. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Target-Grounded Graph-Aware Transformer for Aerial Vision-and-Dialog  Navigation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11561  
**Abstract:** This report details the method of the winning entry of the AVDN Challenge in ICCV 2023. The competition addresses the Aerial Navigation from Dialog History (ANDH) task, which requires a drone agent to associate dialog history with aerial observations to reach the destination. For better cross-modal grounding abilities of the drone agent, we propose a Target-Grounded Graph-Aware Transformer (TG-GAT) framework. Concretely, TG-GAT first leverages a graph-aware transformer to capture spatiotemporal dependency, which is beneficial for navigation state tracking and robust action planning. TG-GAT first leverages a graph-aware transformer to capture spatiotemporal dependencies for more robust action planning. In addition, an auxiliary visual grounding task is devised to boost the agent's awareness of referred landmarks. Moreover, a hybrid augmentation strategy based on large language models is utilized to mitigate data scarcity limitations. Our TG-GAT framework won the AVDN Challenge 2023, with 2.2% and 3.0% absolute improvements over the baseline on SPL and SR metrics, respectively. The code is available at https://github.com/yifeisu/avdn-challenge. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Using ChatGPT as a CAT tool in Easy Language translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11563  
**Abstract:** This study sets out to investigate the feasibility of using ChatGPT to translate citizen-oriented administrative texts into German Easy Language, a simplified, controlled language variety that is adapted to the needs of people with reading impairments. We use ChatGPT to translate selected texts from websites of German public authorities using two strategies, i.e. linguistic and holistic. We analyse the quality of the generated texts based on different criteria, such as correctness, readability, and syntactic complexity. The results indicated that the generated texts are easier than the standard texts, but that they still do not fully meet the established Easy Language standards. Additionally, the content is not always rendered correctly. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Refashioning Emotion Recognition Modelling: The Advent of Generalised  Large Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11578  
**Abstract:** After the inception of emotion recognition or affective computing, it has increasingly become an active research topic due to its broad applications. Over the past couple of decades, emotion recognition models have gradually migrated from statistically shallow models to neural network-based deep models, which can significantly boost the performance of emotion recognition models and consistently achieve the best results on different benchmarks. Therefore, in recent years, deep models have always been considered the first option for emotion recognition. However, the debut of large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, has remarkably astonished the world due to their emerged capabilities of zero/few-shot learning, in-context learning, chain-of-thought, and others that are never shown in previous deep models. In the present paper, we comprehensively investigate how the LLMs perform in emotion recognition in terms of diverse aspects, including in-context learning, few-short learning, accuracy, generalisation, and explanation. Moreover, we offer some insights and pose other potential challenges, hoping to ignite broader discussions about enhancing emotion recognition in the new era of advanced and generalised large models. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Building Emotional Support Chatbots in the Era of LLMs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11584  
**Abstract:** The integration of emotional support into various conversational scenarios presents profound societal benefits, such as social interactions, mental health counseling, and customer service. However, there are unsolved challenges that hinder real-world applications in this field, including limited data availability and the absence of well-accepted model training paradigms. This work endeavors to navigate these challenges by harnessing the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). We introduce an innovative methodology that synthesizes human insights with the computational prowess of LLMs to curate an extensive emotional support dialogue dataset. Our approach is initiated with a meticulously designed set of dialogues spanning diverse scenarios as generative seeds. By utilizing the in-context learning potential of ChatGPT, we recursively generate an ExTensible Emotional Support dialogue dataset, named ExTES. Following this, we deploy advanced tuning techniques on the LLaMA model, examining the impact of diverse training strategies, ultimately yielding an LLM meticulously optimized for emotional support interactions. An exhaustive assessment of the resultant model showcases its proficiency in offering emotional support, marking a pivotal step in the realm of emotional support bots and paving the way for subsequent research and implementations. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** SeamlessM4T-Massively Multilingual & Multimodal Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11596  
**Abstract:** What does it take to create the Babel Fish, a tool that can help individuals translate speech between any two languages? While recent breakthroughs in text-based models have pushed machine translation coverage beyond 200 languages, unified speech-to-speech translation models have yet to achieve similar strides. More specifically, conventional speech-to-speech translation systems rely on cascaded systems that perform translation progressively, putting high-performing unified systems out of reach. To address these gaps, we introduce SeamlessM4T, a single model that supports speech-to-speech translation, speech-to-text translation, text-to-speech translation, text-to-text translation, and automatic speech recognition for up to 100 languages. To build this, we used 1 million hours of open speech audio data to learn self-supervised speech representations with w2v-BERT 2.0. Subsequently, we created a multimodal corpus of automatically aligned speech translations. Filtered and combined with human-labeled and pseudo-labeled data, we developed the first multilingual system capable of translating from and into English for both speech and text. On FLEURS, SeamlessM4T sets a new standard for translations into multiple target languages, achieving an improvement of 20% BLEU over the previous SOTA in direct speech-to-text translation. Compared to strong cascaded models, SeamlessM4T improves the quality of into-English translation by 1.3 BLEU points in speech-to-text and by 2.6 ASR-BLEU points in speech-to-speech. Tested for robustness, our system performs better against background noises and speaker variations in speech-to-text tasks compared to the current SOTA model. Critically, we evaluated SeamlessM4T on gender bias and added toxicity to assess translation safety. Finally, all contributions in this work are open-sourced at this https https://github.com/facebookresearch/seamless_communication. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Tryage: Real-time, intelligent Routing of User Prompts to Large Language  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11601  
**Abstract:** The introduction of the transformer architecture and the self-attention mechanism has led to an explosive production of language models trained on specific down- stream tasks and data domains. With over 200, 000 models in the Hugging Face ecosystem, users grapple with selecting and optimizing models to suit multifaceted workflows and data domains while addressing computational, security, and recency concerns. There is an urgent need for machine learning frameworks that can elimi- nate the burden of model selection and customization and unleash the incredible power of the vast emerging model library for end users. Here, we propose a context- aware routing system, Tryage, that leverages a language model router for optimal selection of expert models from a model library based on analysis of individual input prompts. Inspired by the thalamic router in the brain, Tryage employs a perceptive router to predict down-stream model performance on prompts and, then, makes a routing decision using an objective function that integrates performance predictions with user goals and constraints that are incorporated through flags (e.g., model size, model recency). Tryage allows users to explore a Pareto front and automatically trade-off between task accuracy and secondary goals including minimization of model size, recency, security, verbosity, and readability. Across heterogeneous data sets that include code, text, clinical data, and patents, the Tryage framework surpasses Gorilla and GPT3.5 turbo in dynamic model selection identifying the optimal model with an accuracy of 50.9% , compared to 23.6% by GPT 3.5 Turbo and 10.8% by Gorilla. Conceptually, Tryage demonstrates how routing models can be applied to program and control the behavior of multi-model LLM systems to maximize efficient use of the expanding and evolving language model ecosystem. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** GOPro: Generate and Optimize Prompts in CLIP using Self-Supervised  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11605  
**Abstract:** Large-scale foundation models, such as CLIP, have demonstrated remarkable success in visual recognition tasks by embedding images in a semantically rich space. Self-supervised learning (SSL) has also shown promise in improving visual recognition by learning invariant features. However, the combination of CLIP with SSL is found to face challenges due to the multi-task framework that blends CLIP's contrastive loss and SSL's loss, including difficulties with loss weighting and inconsistency among different views of images in CLIP's output space. To overcome these challenges, we propose a prompt learning-based model called GOPro, which is a unified framework that ensures similarity between various augmented views of input images in a shared image-text embedding space, using a pair of learnable image and text projectors atop CLIP, to promote invariance and generalizability. To automatically learn such prompts, we leverage the visual content and style primitives extracted from pre-trained CLIP and adapt them to the target task. In addition to CLIP's cross-domain contrastive loss, we introduce a visual contrastive loss and a novel prompt consistency loss, considering the different views of the images. GOPro is trained end-to-end on all three loss objectives, combining the strengths of CLIP and SSL in a principled manner. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that GOPro outperforms the state-of-the-art prompting techniques on three challenging domain generalization tasks across multiple benchmarks by a significant margin. Our code is available at https://github.com/mainaksingha01/GOPro. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** Delving into Motion-Aware Matching for Monocular 3D Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11607  
**Abstract:** Recent advances of monocular 3D object detection facilitate the 3D multi-object tracking task based on low-cost camera sensors. In this paper, we find that the motion cue of objects along different time frames is critical in 3D multi-object tracking, which is less explored in existing monocular-based approaches. In this paper, we propose a motion-aware framework for monocular 3D MOT. To this end, we propose MoMA-M3T, a framework that mainly consists of three motion-aware components. First, we represent the possible movement of an object related to all object tracklets in the feature space as its motion features. Then, we further model the historical object tracklet along the time frame in a spatial-temporal perspective via a motion transformer. Finally, we propose a motion-aware matching module to associate historical object tracklets and current observations as final tracking results. We conduct extensive experiments on the nuScenes and KITTI datasets to demonstrate that our MoMA-M3T achieves competitive performance against state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, the proposed tracker is flexible and can be easily plugged into existing image-based 3D object detectors without re-training. Code and models are available at https://github.com/kuanchihhuang/MoMA-M3T. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Switched auxiliary loss for robust training of transformer models for  histopathological image segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10994  
**Abstract:** Functional tissue Units (FTUs) are cell population neighborhoods local to a particular organ performing its main function. The FTUs provide crucial information to the pathologist in understanding the disease affecting a particular organ by providing information at the cellular level. In our research, we have developed a model to segment multi-organ FTUs across 5 organs namely: the kidney, large intestine, lung, prostate and spleen by utilizing the HuBMAP + HPA - Hacking the Human Body competition dataset. We propose adding shifted auxiliary loss for training models like the transformers to overcome the diminishing gradient problem which poses a challenge towards optimal training of deep models. Overall, our model achieved a dice score of 0.793 on the public dataset and 0.778 on the private dataset and shows a 1% improvement with the use of the proposed method. The findings also bolster the use of transformers models for dense prediction tasks in the field of medical image analysis. The study assists in understanding the relationships between cell and tissue organization thereby providing a useful medium to look at the impact of cellular functions on human health. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** MosaiQ: Quantum Generative Adversarial Networks for Image Generation on  NISQ Computers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11096  
**Abstract:** Quantum machine learning and vision have come to the fore recently, with hardware advances enabling rapid advancement in the capabilities of quantum machines. Recently, quantum image generation has been explored with many potential advantages over non-quantum techniques; however, previous techniques have suffered from poor quality and robustness. To address these problems, we introduce, MosaiQ, a high-quality quantum image generation GAN framework that can be executed on today's Near-term Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ) computers. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** From Mundane to Meaningful: AI's Influence on Work Dynamics -- evidence  from ChatGPT and Stack Overflow  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11302  
**Abstract:** This paper illustrates how generative AI could give opportunities for big productivity gains but also opens up questions about the impact of these new powerful technologies on the way we work and share knowledge. More specifically, we explore how ChatGPT changed a fundamental aspect of coding: problem-solving. To do so, we exploit the effect of the sudden release of ChatGPT on the 30th of November 2022 on the usage of the largest online community for coders: Stack Overflow. Using quasi-experimental methods (Difference-in-Difference), we find a significant drop in the number of questions. In addition, the questions are better documented after the release of ChatGPT. Finally, we find evidence that the remaining questions are more complex. These findings suggest not only productivity gains but also a fundamental change in the way we work where routine inquiries are solved by AI allowing humans to focus on more complex tasks. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Non-Redundant Combination of Hand-Crafted and Deep Learning Radiomics:  Application to the Early Detection of Pancreatic Cancer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11389  
**Abstract:** We address the problem of learning Deep Learning Radiomics (DLR) that are not redundant with Hand-Crafted Radiomics (HCR). To do so, we extract DLR features using a VAE while enforcing their independence with HCR features by minimizing their mutual information. The resulting DLR features can be combined with hand-crafted ones and leveraged by a classifier to predict early markers of cancer. We illustrate our method on four early markers of pancreatic cancer and validate it on a large independent test set. Our results highlight the value of combining non-redundant DLR and HCR features, as evidenced by an improvement in the Area Under the Curve compared to baseline methods that do not address redundancy or solely rely on HCR features. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** NIPG-DG schemes for transformed master equations modeling open quantum  systems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11580  
**Abstract:** This work presents a numerical analysis of a master equation modeling the interaction of a system with a noisy environment in the particular context of open quantum systems. It is shown that our transformed master equation has a reduced computational cost in comparison to a Wigner-Fokker-Planck model of the same system for the general case of any potential. Specifics of a NIPG-DG numerical scheme adequate for the convection-diffusion system obtained are then presented. This will let us solve computationally the transformed system of interest modeling our open quantum system. A benchmark problem, the case of a harmonic potential, is then presented, for which the numerical results are compared against the analytical steady-state solution of this problem. 

