**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Revolutionizing TCAD Simulations with Universal Device Encoding and  Graph Attention Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11624  
**Abstract:** An innovative methodology that leverages artificial intelligence (AI) and graph representation for semiconductor device encoding in TCAD device simulation is proposed. A graph-based universal encoding scheme is presented that not only considers material-level and device-level embeddings, but also introduces a novel spatial relationship embedding inspired by interpolation operations typically used in finite element meshing. Universal physical laws from device simulations are leveraged for comprehensive data-driven modeling, which encompasses surrogate Poisson emulation and current-voltage (IV) prediction based on drift-diffusion model. Both are achieved using a novel graph attention network, referred to as RelGAT. Comprehensive technical details based on the device simulator Sentaurus TCAD are presented, empowering researchers to adopt the proposed AI-driven Electronic Design Automation (EDA) solution at the device level. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Prompt Engineering For Students of Medicine and Their Teachers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11628  
**Abstract:** "Prompt Engineering for Students of Medicine and Their Teachers" brings the principles of prompt engineering for large language models such as ChatGPT and Google Bard to medical education. This book contains a comprehensive guide to prompt engineering to help both teachers and students improve education in the medical field. Just as prompt engineering is critical in getting good information out of an AI, it is also critical to get students to think and understand more deeply. The principles of prompt engineering that we have learned from AI systems have the potential to simultaneously revolutionize learning in the healthcare field. The book analyzes from multiple angles the anatomy of a good prompt for both AI models and students. The different types of prompts are examined, showing how each style has unique characteristics and applications. The principles of prompt engineering, applied properly, are demonstrated to be effective in teaching across the diverse fields of anatomy, physiology, pathology, pharmacology, and clinical skills. Just like ChatGPT and similar large language AI models, students need clear and detailed prompting in order for them to fully understand a topic. Using identical principles, a prompt that gets good information from an AI will also cause a student to think more deeply and accurately. The process of prompt engineering facilitates this process. Because each chapter contains multiple examples and key takeaways, it is a practical guide for implementing prompt engineering in the learning process. It provides a hands-on approach to ensure readers can immediately apply the concepts they learn 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** VadCLIP: Adapting Vision-Language Models for Weakly Supervised Video  Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11681  
**Abstract:** The recent contrastive language-image pre-training (CLIP) model has shown great success in a wide range of image-level tasks, revealing remarkable ability for learning powerful visual representations with rich semantics. An open and worthwhile problem is efficiently adapting such a strong model to the video domain and designing a robust video anomaly detector. In this work, we propose VadCLIP, a new paradigm for weakly supervised video anomaly detection (WSVAD) by leveraging the frozen CLIP model directly without any pre-training and fine-tuning process. Unlike current works that directly feed extracted features into the weakly supervised classifier for frame-level binary classification, VadCLIP makes full use of fine-grained associations between vision and language on the strength of CLIP and involves dual branch. One branch simply utilizes visual features for coarse-grained binary classification, while the other fully leverages the fine-grained language-image alignment. With the benefit of dual branch, VadCLIP achieves both coarse-grained and fine-grained video anomaly detection by transferring pre-trained knowledge from CLIP to WSVAD task. We conduct extensive experiments on two commonly-used benchmarks, demonstrating that VadCLIP achieves the best performance on both coarse-grained and fine-grained WSVAD, surpassing the state-of-the-art methods by a large margin. Specifically, VadCLIP achieves 84.51% AP and 88.02% AUC on XD-Violence and UCF-Crime, respectively. Code and features will be released to facilitate future VAD research. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Invariant representation learning for sequential recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11728  
**Abstract:** Sequential recommendation involves automatically recommending the next item to users based on their historical item sequence. While most prior research employs RNN or transformer methods to glean information from the item sequence-generating probabilities for each user-item pair and recommending the top items, these approaches often overlook the challenge posed by spurious relationships. This paper specifically addresses these spurious relations. We introduce a novel sequential recommendation framework named Irl4Rec. This framework harnesses invariant learning and employs a new objective that factors in the relationship between spurious variables and adjustment variables during model training. This approach aids in identifying spurious relations. Comparative analyses reveal that our framework outperforms three typical methods, underscoring the effectiveness of our model. Moreover, an ablation study further demonstrates the critical role our model plays in detecting spurious relations. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Improving Detection of ChatGPT-Generated Fake Science Using Real  Publication Text: Introducing xFakeBibs a Supervised-Learning Network  Algorithm  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11767  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT is becoming a new reality. In this paper, we show how to distinguish ChatGPT-generated publications from counterparts produced by scientists. Using a newly designed supervised Machine Learning algorithm, we demonstrate how to detect machine-generated publications from those produced by scientists. The algorithm was trained using 100 real publication abstracts, followed by a 10-fold calibration approach to establish a lower-upper bound range of acceptance. In the comparison with ChatGPT content, it was evident that ChatGPT contributed merely 23\% of the bigram content, which is less than 50\% of any of the other 10 calibrating folds. This analysis highlights a significant disparity in technical terms where ChatGPT fell short of matching real science. When categorizing the individual articles, the xFakeBibs algorithm accurately identified 98 out of 100 publications as fake, with 2 articles incorrectly classified as real publications. Though this work introduced an algorithmic approach that detected the ChatGPT-generated fake science with a high degree of accuracy, it remains challenging to detect all fake records. This work is indeed a step in the right direction to counter fake science and misinformation. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** SAMSNeRF: Segment Anything Model (SAM) Guides Dynamic Surgical Scene  Reconstruction by Neural Radiance Field (NeRF)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11774  
**Abstract:** The accurate reconstruction of surgical scenes from surgical videos is critical for various applications, including intraoperative navigation and image-guided robotic surgery automation. However, previous approaches, mainly relying on depth estimation, have limited effectiveness in reconstructing surgical scenes with moving surgical tools. To address this limitation and provide accurate 3D position prediction for surgical tools in all frames, we propose a novel approach called SAMSNeRF that combines Segment Anything Model (SAM) and Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) techniques. Our approach generates accurate segmentation masks of surgical tools using SAM, which guides the refinement of the dynamic surgical scene reconstruction by NeRF. Our experimental results on public endoscopy surgical videos demonstrate that our approach successfully reconstructs high-fidelity dynamic surgical scenes and accurately reflects the spatial information of surgical tools. Our proposed approach can significantly enhance surgical navigation and automation by providing surgeons with accurate 3D position information of surgical tools during surgery.The source code will be released soon. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Coarse-to-Fine Multi-Scene Pose Regression with Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11783  
**Abstract:** Absolute camera pose regressors estimate the position and orientation of a camera given the captured image alone. Typically, a convolutional backbone with a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) head is trained using images and pose labels to embed a single reference scene at a time. Recently, this scheme was extended to learn multiple scenes by replacing the MLP head with a set of fully connected layers. In this work, we propose to learn multi-scene absolute camera pose regression with Transformers, where encoders are used to aggregate activation maps with self-attention and decoders transform latent features and scenes encoding into pose predictions. This allows our model to focus on general features that are informative for localization, while embedding multiple scenes in parallel. We extend our previous MS-Transformer approach \cite{shavit2021learning} by introducing a mixed classification-regression architecture that improves the localization accuracy. Our method is evaluated on commonly benchmark indoor and outdoor datasets and has been shown to exceed both multi-scene and state-of-the-art single-scene absolute pose regressors. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Enhancing NeRF akin to Enhancing LLMs: Generalizable NeRF Transformer  with Mixture-of-View-Experts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11793  
**Abstract:** Cross-scene generalizable NeRF models, which can directly synthesize novel views of unseen scenes, have become a new spotlight of the NeRF field. Several existing attempts rely on increasingly end-to-end "neuralized" architectures, i.e., replacing scene representation and/or rendering modules with performant neural networks such as transformers, and turning novel view synthesis into a feed-forward inference pipeline. While those feedforward "neuralized" architectures still do not fit diverse scenes well out of the box, we propose to bridge them with the powerful Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) idea from large language models (LLMs), which has demonstrated superior generalization ability by balancing between larger overall model capacity and flexible per-instance specialization. Starting from a recent generalizable NeRF architecture called GNT, we first demonstrate that MoE can be neatly plugged in to enhance the model. We further customize a shared permanent expert and a geometry-aware consistency loss to enforce cross-scene consistency and spatial smoothness respectively, which are essential for generalizable view synthesis. Our proposed model, dubbed GNT with Mixture-of-View-Experts (GNT-MOVE), has experimentally shown state-of-the-art results when transferring to unseen scenes, indicating remarkably better cross-scene generalization in both zero-shot and few-shot settings. Our codes are available at https://github.com/VITA-Group/GNT-MOVE. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** CLIP Multi-modal Hashing: A new baseline CLIPMH  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11797  
**Abstract:** The multi-modal hashing method is widely used in multimedia retrieval. It can fuse multi-source data to generate binary hash code. However, the current multi-modal methods have the problem of low retrieval accuracy. The reason is that the individual backbone networks have limited feature expression capabilities and are not jointly pre-trained on large-scale unsupervised multi-modal data. To solve this problem, we propose a new baseline CLIP Multi-modal Hashing (CLIPMH) method. It uses CLIP model to extract text and image features, and then fuse to generate hash code. CLIP improves the expressiveness of each modal feature. In this way, it can greatly improve the retrieval performance of multi-modal hashing methods. In comparison to state-of-the-art unsupervised and supervised multi-modal hashing methods, experiments reveal that the proposed CLIPMH can significantly enhance performance (Maximum increase of 8.38%). CLIP also has great advantages over the text and visual backbone networks commonly used before. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Exploring the Effectiveness of GPT Models in Test-Taking: A Case Study  of the Driver's License Knowledge Test  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11827  
**Abstract:** Large language models such as Open AI's Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) models are proficient at answering questions, but their knowledge is confined to the information present in their training data. This limitation renders them ineffective when confronted with questions about recent developments or non-public documents. Our research proposes a method that enables GPT models to answer questions by employing context from an information source not previously included in their training data. The methodology includes preprocessing of contextual information, the embedding of contexts and queries, constructing prompt through the integration of context embeddings, and generating answers using GPT models. We applied this method in a controlled test scenario using the California Driver's Handbook as the information source. The GPT-3 model achieved a 96% passing score on a set of 50 sample driving knowledge test questions. In contrast, without context, the model's passing score fell to 82%. However, the model still fails to answer some questions correctly even with providing library of context, highlighting room for improvement. The research also examined the impact of prompt length and context format, on the model's performance. Overall, the study provides insights into the limitations and potential improvements for GPT models in question-answering tasks. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** CoC-GAN: Employing Context Cluster for Unveiling a New Pathway in Image  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11857  
**Abstract:** Image generation tasks are traditionally undertaken using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) or Transformer architectures for feature aggregating and dispatching. Despite the frequent application of convolution and attention structures, these structures are not fundamentally required to solve the problem of instability and the lack of interpretability in image generation. In this paper, we propose a unique image generation process premised on the perspective of converting images into a set of point clouds. In other words, we interpret an image as a set of points. As such, our methodology leverages simple clustering methods named Context Clustering (CoC) to generate images from unordered point sets, which defies the convention of using convolution or attention mechanisms. Hence, we exclusively depend on this clustering technique, combined with the multi-layer perceptron (MLP) in a generative model. Furthermore, we implement the integration of a module termed the 'Point Increaser' for the model. This module is just an MLP tasked with generating additional points for clustering, which are subsequently integrated within the paradigm of the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN). We introduce this model with the novel structure as the Context Clustering Generative Adversarial Network (CoC-GAN), which offers a distinctive viewpoint in the domain of feature aggregating and dispatching. Empirical evaluations affirm that our CoC-GAN, devoid of convolution and attention mechanisms, exhibits outstanding performance. Its interpretability, endowed by the CoC module, also allows for visualization in our experiments. The promising results underscore the feasibility of our method and thus warrant future investigations of applying Context Clustering to more novel and interpretable image generation. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** The macroscopic finite-difference scheme and modified equations of the  general propagation multiple-relaxation-time lattice Boltzmann model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11882  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we first present the general propagation multiple-relaxation-time lattice Boltzmann (GPMRT-LB) model and obtain the corresponding macroscopic finite-difference (GPMFD) scheme on conservative moments. Then based on the Maxwell iteration method, we conduct the analysis on the truncation errors and modified equations (MEs) of the GPMRT-LB model and GPMFD scheme at both diffusive and acoustic scalings. For the nonlinear anisotropic convection-diffusion equation (NACDE) and Navier-Stokes equations (NSEs), we also derive the first- and second-order MEs of the GPMRT-LB model and GPMFD scheme. In particular, for the one-dimensional convection-diffusion equation (CDE) with the constant velocity and diffusion coefficient, we can develop a fourth-order GPMRT-LB (F-GPMRT-LB) model and the corresponding fourth-order GPMFD (F-GPMFD) scheme at the diffusive scaling. Finally, two benchmark problems, Gauss hill problem and Poiseuille flow in two-dimensional space, are used to test the GPMRT-LB model and GPMFD scheme, and it is found that the numerical results are not only in good agreement with corresponding analytical solutions, but also have a second-order convergence rate in space. Additionally, a numerical study on one-dimensional CDE also demonstrates that the F-GPMRT-LB model and F-GPMFD scheme can achieve a fourth-order accuracy in space, which is consistent with our theoretical analysis. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** A Unified Framework for 3D Point Cloud Visual Grounding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11887  
**Abstract:** 3D point cloud visual grounding plays a critical role in 3D scene comprehension, encompassing 3D referring expression comprehension (3DREC) and segmentation (3DRES). We argue that 3DREC and 3DRES should be unified in one framework, which is also a natural progression in the community. To explain, 3DREC can help 3DRES locate the referent, while 3DRES can also facilitate 3DREC via more finegrained language-visual alignment. To achieve this, this paper takes the initiative step to integrate 3DREC and 3DRES into a unified framework, termed 3D Referring Transformer (3DRefTR). Its key idea is to build upon a mature 3DREC model and leverage ready query embeddings and visual tokens from the 3DREC model to construct a dedicated mask branch. Specially, we propose Superpoint Mask Branch, which serves a dual purpose: i) By leveraging the heterogeneous CPU-GPU parallelism, while the GPU is occupied generating visual tokens, the CPU concurrently produces superpoints, equivalently accomplishing the upsampling computation; ii) By harnessing on the inherent association between the superpoints and point cloud, it eliminates the heavy computational overhead on the high-resolution visual features for upsampling. This elegant design enables 3DRefTR to achieve both well-performing 3DRES and 3DREC capacities with only a 6% additional latency compared to the original 3DREC model. Empirical evaluations affirm the superiority of 3DRefTR. Specifically, on the ScanRefer dataset, 3DRefTR surpasses the state-of-the-art 3DRES method by 12.43% in mIoU and improves upon the SOTA 3DREC method by 0.6% Acc@0.25IoU. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Shape-conditioned 3D Molecule Generation via Equivariant Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11890  
**Abstract:** Ligand-based drug design aims to identify novel drug candidates of similar shapes with known active molecules. In this paper, we formulated an in silico shape-conditioned molecule generation problem to generate 3D molecule structures conditioned on the shape of a given molecule. To address this problem, we developed a translation- and rotation-equivariant shape-guided generative model ShapeMol. ShapeMol consists of an equivariant shape encoder that maps molecular surface shapes into latent embeddings, and an equivariant diffusion model that generates 3D molecules based on these embeddings. Experimental results show that ShapeMol can generate novel, diverse, drug-like molecules that retain 3D molecular shapes similar to the given shape condition. These results demonstrate the potential of ShapeMol in designing drug candidates of desired 3D shapes binding to protein target pockets. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Bridging the Gap: Deciphering Tabular Data Using Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11891  
**Abstract:** In the realm of natural language processing, the understanding of tabular data has perpetually stood as a focal point of scholarly inquiry. The emergence of expansive language models, exemplified by the likes of ChatGPT, has ushered in a wave of endeavors wherein researchers aim to harness these models for tasks related to table-based question answering. Central to our investigative pursuits is the elucidation of methodologies that amplify the aptitude of such large language models in discerning both the structural intricacies and inherent content of tables, ultimately facilitating their capacity to provide informed responses to pertinent queries. To this end, we have architected a distinctive module dedicated to the serialization of tables for seamless integration with expansive language models. Additionally, we've instituted a corrective mechanism within the model to rectify potential inaccuracies. Experimental results indicate that, although our proposed method trails the SOTA by approximately 11.7% in overall metrics, it surpasses the SOTA by about 1.2% in tests on specific datasets. This research marks the first application of large language models to table-based question answering tasks, enhancing the model's comprehension of both table structures and content. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** LFS-GAN: Lifelong Few-Shot Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11917  
**Abstract:** We address a challenging lifelong few-shot image generation task for the first time. In this situation, a generative model learns a sequence of tasks using only a few samples per task. Consequently, the learned model encounters both catastrophic forgetting and overfitting problems at a time. Existing studies on lifelong GANs have proposed modulation-based methods to prevent catastrophic forgetting. However, they require considerable additional parameters and cannot generate high-fidelity and diverse images from limited data. On the other hand, the existing few-shot GANs suffer from severe catastrophic forgetting when learning multiple tasks. To alleviate these issues, we propose a framework called Lifelong Few-Shot GAN (LFS-GAN) that can generate high-quality and diverse images in lifelong few-shot image generation task. Our proposed framework learns each task using an efficient task-specific modulator - Learnable Factorized Tensor (LeFT). LeFT is rank-constrained and has a rich representation ability due to its unique reconstruction technique. Furthermore, we propose a novel mode seeking loss to improve the diversity of our model in low-data circumstances. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed LFS-GAN can generate high-fidelity and diverse images without any forgetting and mode collapse in various domains, achieving state-of-the-art in lifelong few-shot image generation task. Surprisingly, we find that our LFS-GAN even outperforms the existing few-shot GANs in the few-shot image generation task. The code is available at Github. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Learning Bottleneck Transformer for Event Image-Voxel Feature Fusion  based Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11937  
**Abstract:** Recognizing target objects using an event-based camera draws more and more attention in recent years. Existing works usually represent the event streams into point-cloud, voxel, image, etc, and learn the feature representations using various deep neural networks. Their final results may be limited by the following factors: monotonous modal expressions and the design of the network structure. To address the aforementioned challenges, this paper proposes a novel dual-stream framework for event representation, extraction, and fusion. This framework simultaneously models two common representations: event images and event voxels. By utilizing Transformer and Structured Graph Neural Network (GNN) architectures, spatial information and three-dimensional stereo information can be learned separately. Additionally, a bottleneck Transformer is introduced to facilitate the fusion of the dual-stream information. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art performance on two widely used event-based classification datasets. The source code of this work is available at: \url{https://github.com/Event-AHU/EFV_event_classification} 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Audio Generation with Multiple Conditional Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11940  
**Abstract:** Text-based audio generation models have limitations as they cannot encompass all the information in audio, leading to restricted controllability when relying solely on text. To address this issue, we propose a novel model that enhances the controllability of existing pre-trained text-to-audio models by incorporating additional conditions including content (timestamp) and style (pitch contour and energy contour) as supplements to the text. This approach achieves fine-grained control over the temporal order, pitch, and energy of generated audio. To preserve the diversity of generation, we employ a trainable control condition encoder that is enhanced by a large language model and a trainable Fusion-Net to encode and fuse the additional conditions while keeping the weights of the pre-trained text-to-audio model frozen. Due to the lack of suitable datasets and evaluation metrics, we consolidate existing datasets into a new dataset comprising the audio and corresponding conditions and use a series of evaluation metrics to evaluate the controllability performance. Experimental results demonstrate that our model successfully achieves fine-grained control to accomplish controllable audio generation. Audio samples and our dataset are publicly available at https://conditionaudiogen.github.io/conditionaudiogen/ 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Boosting Diffusion Models with an Adaptive Momentum Sampler  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11941  
**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models (DPMs) have been shown to generate high-quality images without the need for delicate adversarial training. However, the current sampling process in DPMs is prone to violent shaking. In this paper, we present a novel reverse sampler for DPMs inspired by the widely-used Adam optimizer. Our proposed sampler can be readily applied to a pre-trained diffusion model, utilizing momentum mechanisms and adaptive updating to smooth the reverse sampling process and ensure stable generation, resulting in outputs of enhanced quality. By implicitly reusing update directions from early steps, our proposed sampler achieves a better balance between high-level semantics and low-level details. Additionally, this sampler is flexible and can be easily integrated into pre-trained DPMs regardless of the sampler used during training. Our experimental results on multiple benchmarks demonstrate that our proposed reverse sampler yields remarkable improvements over different baselines. We will make the source code available. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** LongDanceDiff: Long-term Dance Generation with Conditional Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11945  
**Abstract:** Dancing with music is always an essential human art form to express emotion. Due to the high temporal-spacial complexity, long-term 3D realist dance generation synchronized with music is challenging. Existing methods suffer from the freezing problem when generating long-term dances due to error accumulation and training-inference discrepancy. To address this, we design a conditional diffusion model, LongDanceDiff, for this sequence-to-sequence long-term dance generation, addressing the challenges of temporal coherency and spatial constraint. LongDanceDiff contains a transformer-based diffusion model, where the input is a concatenation of music, past motions, and noised future motions. This partial noising strategy leverages the full-attention mechanism and learns the dependencies among music and past motions. To enhance the diversity of generated dance motions and mitigate the freezing problem, we introduce a mutual information minimization objective that regularizes the dependency between past and future motions. We also address common visual quality issues in dance generation, such as foot sliding and unsmooth motion, by incorporating spatial constraints through a Global-Trajectory Modulation (GTM) layer and motion perceptual losses, thereby improving the smoothness and naturalness of motion generation. Extensive experiments demonstrate a significant improvement in our approach over the existing state-of-the-art methods. We plan to release our codes and models soon. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Multi-scale Transformer Pyramid Networks for Multivariate Time Series  Forecasting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11946  
**Abstract:** Multivariate Time Series (MTS) forecasting involves modeling temporal dependencies within historical records. Transformers have demonstrated remarkable performance in MTS forecasting due to their capability to capture long-term dependencies. However, prior work has been confined to modeling temporal dependencies at either a fixed scale or multiple scales that exponentially increase (most with base 2). This limitation hinders their effectiveness in capturing diverse seasonalities, such as hourly and daily patterns. In this paper, we introduce a dimension invariant embedding technique that captures short-term temporal dependencies and projects MTS data into a higher-dimensional space, while preserving the dimensions of time steps and variables in MTS data. Furthermore, we present a novel Multi-scale Transformer Pyramid Network (MTPNet), specifically designed to effectively capture temporal dependencies at multiple unconstrained scales. The predictions are inferred from multi-scale latent representations obtained from transformers at various scales. Extensive experiments on nine benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed MTPNet outperforms recent state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Efficient Transfer Learning in Diffusion Models via Adversarial Noise  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11948  
**Abstract:** Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DPMs) have demonstrated substantial promise in image generation tasks but heavily rely on the availability of large amounts of training data. Previous works, like GANs, have tackled the limited data problem by transferring pre-trained models learned with sufficient data. However, those methods are hard to be utilized in DPMs since the distinct differences between DPM-based and GAN-based methods, showing in the unique iterative denoising process integral and the need for many timesteps with no-targeted noise in DPMs. In this paper, we propose a novel DPMs-based transfer learning method, TAN, to address the limited data problem. It includes two strategies: similarity-guided training, which boosts transfer with a classifier, and adversarial noise selection which adaptive chooses targeted noise based on the input image. Extensive experiments in the context of few-shot image generation tasks demonstrate that our method is not only efficient but also excels in terms of image quality and diversity when compared to existing GAN-based and DDPM-based methods. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** High-quality Image Dehazing with Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11949  
**Abstract:** Image dehazing is quite challenging in dense-haze scenarios, where quite less original information remains in the hazy image. Though previous methods have made marvelous progress, they still suffer from information loss in content and color in dense-haze scenarios. The recently emerged Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model (DDPM) exhibits strong generation ability, showing potential for solving this problem. However, DDPM fails to consider the physics property of dehazing task, limiting its information completion capacity. In this work, we propose DehazeDDPM: A DDPM-based and physics-aware image dehazing framework that applies to complex hazy scenarios. Specifically, DehazeDDPM works in two stages. The former stage physically models the dehazing task with the Atmospheric Scattering Model (ASM), pulling the distribution closer to the clear data and endowing DehazeDDPM with fog-aware ability. The latter stage exploits the strong generation ability of DDPM to compensate for the haze-induced huge information loss, by working in conjunction with the physical modelling. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method attains state-of-the-art performance on both synthetic and real-world hazy datasets. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Pose Modulated Avatars from Video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11951  
**Abstract:** It is now possible to reconstruct dynamic human motion and shape from a sparse set of cameras using Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) driven by an underlying skeleton. However, a challenge remains to model the deformation of cloth and skin in relation to skeleton pose. Unlike existing avatar models that are learned implicitly or rely on a proxy surface, our approach is motivated by the observation that different poses necessitate unique frequency assignments. Neglecting this distinction yields noisy artifacts in smooth areas or blurs fine-grained texture and shape details in sharp regions. We develop a two-branch neural network that is adaptive and explicit in the frequency domain. The first branch is a graph neural network that models correlations among body parts locally, taking skeleton pose as input. The second branch combines these correlation features to a set of global frequencies and then modulates the feature encoding. Our experiments demonstrate that our network outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of preserving details and generalization capabilities. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** CED: Consistent ensemble distillation for audio tagging  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11957  
**Abstract:** Augmentation and knowledge distillation (KD) are well-established techniques employed in the realm of audio classification tasks, aimed at enhancing performance and reducing model sizes on the widely recognized Audioset (AS) benchmark. Although both techniques are effective individually, their combined use, called consistent teaching, hasn't been explored before. This paper proposes CED, a simple training framework that distils student models from large teacher ensembles with consistent teaching. To achieve this, CED efficiently stores logits as well as the augmentation methods on disk, making it scalable to large-scale datasets. Central to CED's efficacy is its label-free nature, meaning that only the stored logits are used for the optimization of a student model only requiring 0.3\% additional disk space for AS. The study trains various transformer-based models, including a 10M parameter model achieving a 49.0 mean average precision (mAP) on AS. Pretrained models and code are available at https://github.com/RicherMans/CED. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** EVE: Efficient Vision-Language Pre-training with Masked Prediction and  Modality-Aware MoE  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11971  
**Abstract:** Building scalable vision-language models to learn from diverse, multimodal data remains an open challenge. In this paper, we introduce an Efficient Vision-languagE foundation model, namely EVE, which is one unified multimodal Transformer pre-trained solely by one unified pre-training task. Specifically, EVE encodes both vision and language within a shared Transformer network integrated with modality-aware sparse Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) modules, which capture modality-specific information by selectively switching to different experts. To unify pre-training tasks of vision and language, EVE performs masked signal modeling on image-text pairs to reconstruct masked signals, i.e., image pixels and text tokens, given visible signals. This simple yet effective pre-training objective accelerates training by 3.5x compared to the model pre-trained with Image-Text Contrastive and Image-Text Matching losses. Owing to the combination of the unified architecture and pre-training task, EVE is easy to scale up, enabling better downstream performance with fewer resources and faster training speed. Despite its simplicity, EVE achieves state-of-the-art performance on various vision-language downstream tasks, including visual question answering, visual reasoning, and image-text retrieval. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Blending-NeRF: Text-Driven Localized Editing in Neural Radiance Fields  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11974  
**Abstract:** Text-driven localized editing of 3D objects is particularly difficult as locally mixing the original 3D object with the intended new object and style effects without distorting the object's form is not a straightforward process. To address this issue, we propose a novel NeRF-based model, Blending-NeRF, which consists of two NeRF networks: pretrained NeRF and editable NeRF. Additionally, we introduce new blending operations that allow Blending-NeRF to properly edit target regions which are localized by text. By using a pretrained vision-language aligned model, CLIP, we guide Blending-NeRF to add new objects with varying colors and densities, modify textures, and remove parts of the original object. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that Blending-NeRF produces naturally and locally edited 3D objects from various text prompts. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Local Distortion Aware Efficient Transformer Adaptation for Image  Quality Assessment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12001  
**Abstract:** Image Quality Assessment (IQA) constitutes a fundamental task within the field of computer vision, yet it remains an unresolved challenge, owing to the intricate distortion conditions, diverse image contents, and limited availability of data. Recently, the community has witnessed the emergence of numerous large-scale pretrained foundation models, which greatly benefit from dramatically increased data and parameter capacities. However, it remains an open problem whether the scaling law in high-level tasks is also applicable to IQA task which is closely related to low-level clues. In this paper, we demonstrate that with proper injection of local distortion features, a larger pretrained and fixed foundation model performs better in IQA tasks. Specifically, for the lack of local distortion structure and inductive bias of vision transformer (ViT), alongside the large-scale pretrained ViT, we use another pretrained convolution neural network (CNN), which is well known for capturing the local structure, to extract multi-scale image features. Further, we propose a local distortion extractor to obtain local distortion features from the pretrained CNN and a local distortion injector to inject the local distortion features into ViT. By only training the extractor and injector, our method can benefit from the rich knowledge in the powerful foundation models and achieve state-of-the-art performance on popular IQA datasets, indicating that IQA is not only a low-level problem but also benefits from stronger high-level features drawn from large-scale pretrained models. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Multi-stage Factorized Spatio-Temporal Representation for RGB-D Action  and Gesture Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12006  
**Abstract:** RGB-D action and gesture recognition remain an interesting topic in human-centered scene understanding, primarily due to the multiple granularities and large variation in human motion. Although many RGB-D based action and gesture recognition approaches have demonstrated remarkable results by utilizing highly integrated spatio-temporal representations across multiple modalities (i.e., RGB and depth data), they still encounter several challenges. Firstly, vanilla 3D convolution makes it hard to capture fine-grained motion differences between local clips under different modalities. Secondly, the intricate nature of highly integrated spatio-temporal modeling can lead to optimization difficulties. Thirdly, duplicate and unnecessary information can add complexity and complicate entangled spatio-temporal modeling. To address the above issues, we propose an innovative heuristic architecture called Multi-stage Factorized Spatio-Temporal (MFST) for RGB-D action and gesture recognition. The proposed MFST model comprises a 3D Central Difference Convolution Stem (CDC-Stem) module and multiple factorized spatio-temporal stages. The CDC-Stem enriches fine-grained temporal perception, and the multiple hierarchical spatio-temporal stages construct dimension-independent higher-order semantic primitives. Specifically, the CDC-Stem module captures bottom-level spatio-temporal features and passes them successively to the following spatio-temporal factored stages to capture the hierarchical spatial and temporal features through the Multi- Scale Convolution and Transformer (MSC-Trans) hybrid block and Weight-shared Multi-Scale Transformer (WMS-Trans) block. The seamless integration of these innovative designs results in a robust spatio-temporal representation that outperforms state-of-the-art approaches on RGB-D action and gesture recognition datasets. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Prompt-Based Length Controlled Generation with Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12030  
**Abstract:** Recently, large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and GPT-4 have attracted great attention given their surprising improvement and performance. Length controlled generation of LLMs emerges as an important topic, which also enables users to fully leverage the capability of LLMs in more real-world scenarios like generating a proper answer or essay of a desired length. In addition, the autoregressive generation in LLMs is extremely time-consuming, while the ability of controlling this generated length can arbitrarily reduce the inference cost by limiting the length, and thus satisfy different needs. Therefore, we aim to propose a prompt-based length control method to achieve this length controlled generation, which can also be widely applied in GPT-style LLMs. In particular, we adopt reinforcement learning with the reward signal given by either trainable or rule-based reward model, which further affects the generation of LLMs via rewarding a pre-defined target length. Experiments show that our method significantly improves the accuracy of prompt-based length control for summarization task on popular datasets like CNNDM and NYT. We believe this length-controllable ability can provide more potentials towards the era of LLMs. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** CgT-GAN: CLIP-guided Text GAN for Image Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12045  
**Abstract:** The large-scale visual-language pre-trained model, Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP), has significantly improved image captioning for scenarios without human-annotated image-caption pairs. Recent advanced CLIP-based image captioning without human annotations follows a text-only training paradigm, i.e., reconstructing text from shared embedding space. Nevertheless, these approaches are limited by the training/inference gap or huge storage requirements for text embeddings. Given that it is trivial to obtain images in the real world, we propose CLIP-guided text GAN (CgT-GAN), which incorporates images into the training process to enable the model to "see" real visual modality. Particularly, we use adversarial training to teach CgT-GAN to mimic the phrases of an external text corpus and CLIP-based reward to provide semantic guidance. The caption generator is jointly rewarded based on the caption naturalness to human language calculated from the GAN's discriminator and the semantic guidance reward computed by the CLIP-based reward module. In addition to the cosine similarity as the semantic guidance reward (i.e., CLIP-cos), we further introduce a novel semantic guidance reward called CLIP-agg, which aligns the generated caption with a weighted text embedding by attentively aggregating the entire corpus. Experimental results on three subtasks (ZS-IC, In-UIC and Cross-UIC) show that CgT-GAN outperforms state-of-the-art methods significantly across all metrics. Code is available at https://github.com/Lihr747/CgtGAN. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Aligning Language Models with Offline Reinforcement Learning from Human  Feedback  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12050  
**Abstract:** Learning from human preferences is crucial for language models (LMs) to effectively cater to human needs and societal values. Previous research has made notable progress by leveraging human feedback to follow instructions. However, these approaches rely primarily on online reinforcement learning (RL) techniques like Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), which have been proven unstable and challenging to tune for language models. Moreover, PPO requires complex distributed system implementation, hindering the efficiency of large-scale distributed training. In this study, we propose an offline reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) framework to align LMs using pre-generated samples without interacting with RL environments. Specifically, we explore maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) with filtering, reward-weighted regression (RWR), and Decision Transformer (DT) to align language models to human preferences. By employing a loss function similar to supervised fine-tuning, our methods ensure more stable model training than PPO with a simple machine learning system~(MLSys) and much fewer (around 12.3\%) computing resources. Experimental results demonstrate the DT alignment outperforms other Offline RLHF methods and is better than PPO. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Manipulating Embeddings of Stable Diffusion Prompts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12059  
**Abstract:** Generative text-to-image models such as Stable Diffusion allow users to generate images based on a textual description, the prompt. Changing the prompt is still the primary means for the user to change a generated image as desired. However, changing the image by reformulating the prompt remains a difficult process of trial and error, which has led to the emergence of prompt engineering as a new field of research. We propose and analyze methods to change the embedding of a prompt directly instead of the prompt text. It allows for more fine-grained and targeted control that takes into account user intentions. Our approach treats the generative text-to-image model as a continuous function and passes gradients between the image space and the prompt embedding space. By addressing different user interaction problems, we can apply this idea in three scenarios: (1) Optimization of a metric defined in image space that could measure, for example, image style. (2) Assistance of users in creative tasks by enabling them to navigate the image space along a selection of directions of "near" prompt embeddings. (3) Changing the embedding of the prompt to include information that the user has seen in a particular seed but finds difficult to describe in the prompt. Our experiments demonstrate the feasibility of the described methods. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** InstructionGPT-4: A 200-Instruction Paradigm for Fine-Tuning MiniGPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12067  
**Abstract:** Multimodal large language models acquire their instruction-following capabilities through a two-stage training process: pre-training on image-text pairs and fine-tuning on supervised vision-language instruction data. Recent studies have shown that large language models can achieve satisfactory results even with a limited amount of high-quality instruction-following data. In this paper, we introduce InstructionGPT-4, which is fine-tuned on a small dataset comprising only 200 examples, amounting to approximately 6% of the instruction-following data used in the alignment dataset for MiniGPT-4. We first propose several metrics to access the quality of multimodal instruction data. Based on these metrics, we present a simple and effective data selector to automatically identify and filter low-quality vision-language data. By employing this method, InstructionGPT-4 outperforms the original MiniGPT-4 on various evaluations (e.g., visual question answering, GPT-4 preference). Overall, our findings demonstrate that less but high-quality instruction tuning data is efficient to enable multimodal large language models to generate better output. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Space-time hybridizable discontinuous Galerkin method for  advection-diffusion on deforming domains: The advection-dominated regime  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12130  
**Abstract:** We analyze a space-time hybridizable discontinuous Galerkin method to solve the time-dependent advection-diffusion equation on deforming domains. We prove stability of the discretization in the advection-dominated regime by using weighted test functions and derive a priori space-time error estimates. A numerical example illustrates the theoretical results. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** CLIPN for Zero-Shot OOD Detection: Teaching CLIP to Say No  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12213  
**Abstract:** Out-of-distribution (OOD) detection refers to training the model on an in-distribution (ID) dataset to classify whether the input images come from unknown classes. Considerable effort has been invested in designing various OOD detection methods based on either convolutional neural networks or transformers. However, zero-shot OOD detection methods driven by CLIP, which only require class names for ID, have received less attention. This paper presents a novel method, namely CLIP saying "no" (\textbf{CLIPN}), which empowers the logic of saying "no" within CLIP. Our key motivation is to equip CLIP with the capability of distinguishing OOD and ID samples using positive-semantic prompts and negation-semantic prompts. Specifically, we design a novel learnable "no" prompt and a "no" text encoder to capture negation semantics within images. Subsequently, we introduce two loss functions: the image-text binary-opposite loss and the text semantic-opposite loss, which we use to teach CLIPN to associate images with "no" prompts, thereby enabling it to identify unknown samples. Furthermore, we propose two threshold-free inference algorithms to perform OOD detection by utilizing negation semantics from "no" prompts and the text encoder. Experimental results on 9 benchmark datasets (3 ID datasets and 6 OOD datasets) for the OOD detection task demonstrate that CLIPN, based on ViT-B-16, outperforms 7 well-used algorithms by at least 2.34\% and 11.64\% in terms of AUROC and FPR95 for zero-shot OOD detection on ImageNet-1K. Our CLIPN can serve as a solid foundation for effectively leveraging CLIP in downstream OOD tasks. The code is available on https://github.com/xmed-lab/CLIPN}{https://github.com/xmed-lab/CLIPN. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** SG-Former: Self-guided Transformer with Evolving Token Reallocation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12216  
**Abstract:** Vision Transformer has demonstrated impressive success across various vision tasks. However, its heavy computation cost, which grows quadratically with respect to the token sequence length, largely limits its power in handling large feature maps. To alleviate the computation cost, previous works rely on either fine-grained self-attentions restricted to local small regions, or global self-attentions but to shorten the sequence length resulting in coarse granularity. In this paper, we propose a novel model, termed as Self-guided Transformer~(SG-Former), towards effective global self-attention with adaptive fine granularity. At the heart of our approach is to utilize a significance map, which is estimated through hybrid-scale self-attention and evolves itself during training, to reallocate tokens based on the significance of each region. Intuitively, we assign more tokens to the salient regions for achieving fine-grained attention, while allocating fewer tokens to the minor regions in exchange for efficiency and global receptive fields. The proposed SG-Former achieves performance superior to state of the art: our base size model achieves \textbf{84.7\%} Top-1 accuracy on ImageNet-1K, \textbf{51.2mAP} bbAP on CoCo, \textbf{52.7mIoU} on ADE20K surpassing the Swin Transformer by \textbf{+1.3\% / +2.7 mAP/ +3 mIoU}, with lower computation costs and fewer parameters. The code is available at \href{https://github.com/OliverRensu/SG-Former}{https://github.com/OliverRensu/SG-Former} 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Diffusion Language Models Can Perform Many Tasks with Scaling and  Instruction-Finetuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12219  
**Abstract:** The recent surge of generative AI has been fueled by the generative power of diffusion probabilistic models and the scalable capabilities of large language models. Despite their potential, it remains elusive whether diffusion language models can solve general language tasks comparable to their autoregressive counterparts. This paper demonstrates that scaling diffusion models w.r.t. data, sizes, and tasks can effectively make them strong language learners. We build competent diffusion language models at scale by first acquiring knowledge from massive data via masked language modeling pretraining thanks to their intrinsic connections. We then reprogram pretrained masked language models into diffusion language models via diffusive adaptation, wherein task-specific finetuning and instruction finetuning are explored to unlock their versatility in solving general language tasks. Experiments show that scaling diffusion language models consistently improves performance across downstream language tasks. We further discover that instruction finetuning can elicit zero-shot and few-shot in-context learning abilities that help tackle many unseen tasks by following natural language instructions, and show promise in advanced and challenging abilities such as reasoning 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** LLMRec: Benchmarking Large Language Models on Recommendation Task  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12241  
**Abstract:** Recently, the fast development of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT has significantly advanced NLP tasks by enhancing the capabilities of conversational models. However, the application of LLMs in the recommendation domain has not been thoroughly investigated. To bridge this gap, we propose LLMRec, a LLM-based recommender system designed for benchmarking LLMs on various recommendation tasks. Specifically, we benchmark several popular off-the-shelf LLMs, such as ChatGPT, LLaMA, ChatGLM, on five recommendation tasks, including rating prediction, sequential recommendation, direct recommendation, explanation generation, and review summarization. Furthermore, we investigate the effectiveness of supervised finetuning to improve LLMs' instruction compliance ability. The benchmark results indicate that LLMs displayed only moderate proficiency in accuracy-based tasks such as sequential and direct recommendation. However, they demonstrated comparable performance to state-of-the-art methods in explainability-based tasks. We also conduct qualitative evaluations to further evaluate the quality of contents generated by different models, and the results show that LLMs can truly understand the provided information and generate clearer and more reasonable results. We aspire that this benchmark will serve as an inspiration for researchers to delve deeper into the potential of LLMs in enhancing recommendation performance. Our codes, processed data and benchmark results are available at https://github.com/williamliujl/LLMRec. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** How to Protect Copyright Data in Optimization of Large Language Models?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12247  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) and generative AI have played a transformative role in computer research and applications. Controversy has arisen as to whether these models output copyrighted data, which can occur if the data the models are trained on is copyrighted. LLMs are built on the transformer neural network architecture, which in turn relies on a mathematical computation called Attention that uses the softmax function. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** Simple is Better and Large is Not Enough: Towards Ensembling of  Foundational Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12272  
**Abstract:** Foundational Language Models (FLMs) have advanced natural language processing (NLP) research. Current researchers are developing larger FLMs (e.g., XLNet, T5) to enable contextualized language representation, classification, and generation. While developing larger FLMs has been of significant advantage, it is also a liability concerning hallucination and predictive uncertainty. Fundamentally, larger FLMs are built on the same foundations as smaller FLMs (e.g., BERT); hence, one must recognize the potential of smaller FLMs which can be realized through an ensemble. In the current research, we perform a reality check on FLMs and their ensemble on benchmark and real-world datasets. We hypothesize that the ensembling of FLMs can influence the individualistic attention of FLMs and unravel the strength of coordination and cooperation of different FLMs. We utilize BERT and define three other ensemble techniques: {Shallow, Semi, and Deep}, wherein the Deep-Ensemble introduces a knowledge-guided reinforcement learning approach. We discovered that the suggested Deep-Ensemble BERT outperforms its large variation i.e. BERTlarge, by a factor of many times using datasets that show the usefulness of NLP in sensitive fields, such as mental health. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** On-Manifold Projected Gradient Descent  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12279  
**Abstract:** This work provides a computable, direct, and mathematically rigorous approximation to the differential geometry of class manifolds for high-dimensional data, along with nonlinear projections from input space onto these class manifolds. The tools are applied to the setting of neural network image classifiers, where we generate novel, on-manifold data samples, and implement a projected gradient descent algorithm for on-manifold adversarial training. The susceptibility of neural networks (NNs) to adversarial attack highlights the brittle nature of NN decision boundaries in input space. Introducing adversarial examples during training has been shown to reduce the susceptibility of NNs to adversarial attack; however, it has also been shown to reduce the accuracy of the classifier if the examples are not valid examples for that class. Realistic "on-manifold" examples have been previously generated from class manifolds in the latent of an autoencoder. Our work explores these phenomena in a geometric and computational setting that is much closer to the raw, high-dimensional input space than can be provided by VAE or other black box dimensionality reductions. We employ conformally invariant diffusion maps (CIDM) to approximate class manifolds in diffusion coordinates, and develop the Nystr\"{o}m projection to project novel points onto class manifolds in this setting. On top of the manifold approximation, we leverage the spectral exterior calculus (SEC) to determine geometric quantities such as tangent vectors of the manifold. We use these tools to obtain adversarial examples that reside on a class manifold, yet fool a classifier. These misclassifications then become explainable in terms of human-understandable manipulations within the data, by expressing the on-manifold adversary in the semantic basis on the manifold. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Devising and Detecting Phishing: large language models vs. Smaller Human  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12287  
**Abstract:** AI programs, built using large language models, make it possible to automatically create phishing emails based on a few data points about a user. They stand in contrast to traditional phishing emails that hackers manually design using general rules gleaned from experience. The V-Triad is an advanced set of rules for manually designing phishing emails to exploit our cognitive heuristics and biases. In this study, we compare the performance of phishing emails created automatically by GPT-4 and manually using the V-Triad. We also combine GPT-4 with the V-Triad to assess their combined potential. A fourth group, exposed to generic phishing emails, was our control group. We utilized a factorial approach, sending emails to 112 randomly selected participants recruited for the study. The control group emails received a click-through rate between 19-28%, the GPT-generated emails 30-44%, emails generated by the V-Triad 69-79%, and emails generated by GPT and the V-Triad 43-81%. Each participant was asked to explain for why they pressed or did not press a link in the email. These answers often contradict each other, highlighting the need for personalized content. The cues that make one person avoid phishing emails make another person fall for them. Next, we used four popular large language models (GPT, Claude, PaLM, and LLaMA) to detect the intention of phishing emails and compare the results to human detection. The language models demonstrated a strong ability to detect malicious intent, even in non-obvious phishing emails. They sometimes surpassed human detection, although often being slightly less accurate than humans. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** In situ Fault Diagnosis of Indium Tin Oxide Electrodes by Processing  S-Parameter Patterns  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11639  
**Abstract:** In the field of optoelectronics, indium tin oxide (ITO) electrodes play a crucial role in various applications, such as displays, sensors, and solar cells. Effective fault detection and diagnosis of the ITO electrodes are essential to ensure the performance and reliability of the devices. However, traditional visual inspection is challenging with transparent ITO electrodes, and existing fault detection methods have limitations in determining the root causes of the defects, often requiring destructive evaluations. In this study, an in situ fault diagnosis method is proposed using scattering parameter (S-parameter) signal processing, offering early detection, high diagnostic accuracy, noise robustness, and root cause analysis. A comprehensive S-parameter pattern database is obtained according to defect states. Deep learning (DL) approaches, including multilayer perceptron (MLP), convolutional neural network (CNN), and transformer, are then used to simultaneously analyze the cause and severity of defects. Notably, it is demonstrated that the diagnostic performance under additive noise levels can be significantly enhanced by combining different channels of the S-parameters as input to the learning algorithms, as confirmed through the t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE) dimension reduction visualization. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Large Transformers are Better EEG Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11654  
**Abstract:** Pre-trained large transformer models have achieved remarkable performance in the fields of natural language processing and computer vision. Since the magnitude of available labeled electroencephalogram (EEG) data is much lower than that of text and image data, it is difficult for transformer models pre-trained from EEG to be developed as large as GPT-4 100T to fully unleash the potential of this architecture. In this paper, we show that transformers pre-trained from images as well as text can be directly fine-tuned for EEG-based prediction tasks. We design AdaCE, plug-and-play Adapters for Converting EEG data into image as well as text forms, to fine-tune pre-trained vision and language transformers. The proposed AdaCE module is highly effective for fine-tuning pre-trained transformers while achieving state-of-the-art performance on diverse EEG-based prediction tasks. For example, AdaCE on the pre-trained Swin-Transformer achieves 99.6%, an absolute improvement of 9.2%, on the EEG-decoding task of human activity recognition (UCI HAR). Furthermore, we empirically show that applying the proposed AdaCE to fine-tune larger pre-trained models can achieve better performance on EEG-based predicting tasks, indicating the potential of our adapters for even larger transformers. The plug-and-play AdaCE module can be applied to fine-tuning most of the popular pre-trained transformers on many other time-series data with multiple channels, not limited to EEG data and the models we use. Our code will be available at https://github.com/wangbxj1234/AdaCE. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Characterizing normal perinatal development of the human brain  structural connectivity  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11836  
**Abstract:** Early brain development is characterized by the formation of a highly organized structural connectome. The interconnected nature of this connectome underlies the brain's cognitive abilities and influences its response to diseases and environmental factors. Hence, quantitative assessment of structural connectivity in the perinatal stage is useful for studying normal and abnormal neurodevelopment. However, estimation of the connectome from diffusion MRI data involves complex computations. For the perinatal period, these computations are further challenged by the rapid brain development and imaging difficulties. Combined with high inter-subject variability, these factors make it difficult to chart the normal development of the structural connectome. As a result, there is a lack of reliable normative baselines of structural connectivity metrics at this critical stage in brain development. In this study, we developed a computational framework, based on spatio-temporal averaging, for determining such baselines. We used this framework to analyze the structural connectivity between 33 and 44 postmenstrual weeks using data from 166 subjects. Our results unveiled clear and strong trends in the development of structural connectivity in perinatal stage. Connection weighting based on fractional anisotropy and neurite density produced the most consistent results. We observed increases in global and local efficiency, a decrease in characteristic path length, and widespread strengthening of the connections within and across brain lobes and hemispheres. We also observed asymmetry patterns that were consistent between different connection weighting approaches. The new computational method and results are useful for assessing normal and abnormal development of the structural connectome early in life. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Constrained Pressure-Temperature Residual (CPTR) Preconditioner  Performance for Large-Scale Thermal CO2 Injection Simulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11892  
**Abstract:** This work studies the performance of a novel preconditioner, designed for thermal reservoir simulation cases and recently introduced in Roy et al. (2020) and Cremon et al. (2020), on large-scale thermal CO2 injection cases. For Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) projects, injecting CO2 under supercritical conditions is typically tens of degrees colder than the reservoir temperature. Thermal effects can have a significant impact on the simulation results, but they also add many challenges for the solvers. More specifically, the usual combination of an iterative linear solver (such as GMRES) and the Constrained Pressure Residual (CPR) physics-based block-preconditioner is known to perform rather poorly or fail to converge when thermal effects play a significant role. The Constrained Pressure-Temperature Residual (CPTR) preconditioner retains the 2x2 block structure (elliptic/hyperbolic) of CPR but includes the temperature in the elliptic subsystem. The elliptic subsystem is now formed by two equations, and is dealt with by the system-solver of BoomerAMG (from the HYPRE library). Then a global smoother, ILU(0), is applied to the full system to handle the local, hyperbolic temperature fronts. We implemented CPTR in the multi-physics solver GEOS and present results on various large-scale thermal CCS simulation cases, including both Cartesian and fully unstructured meshes, up to tens of millions of degrees of freedom. The CPTR preconditioner severely reduces the number of GMRES iterations and the runtime, with cases timing out in 24h with CPR now requiring a few hours with CPTR. We present strong scaling results using hundreds of CPU cores for multiple cases, and show close to linear scaling. CPTR is also virtually insensitive to the thermal Peclet number (which compares advection and diffusion effects) and is suitable to any thermal regime. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Audio Difference Captioning Utilizing Similarity-Discrepancy  Disentanglement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.11923  
**Abstract:** We proposed Audio Difference Captioning (ADC) as a new extension task of audio captioning for describing the semantic differences between input pairs of similar but slightly different audio clips. The ADC solves the problem that conventional audio captioning sometimes generates similar captions for similar audio clips, failing to describe the difference in content. We also propose a cross-attention-concentrated transformer encoder to extract differences by comparing a pair of audio clips and a similarity-discrepancy disentanglement to emphasize the difference in the latent space. To evaluate the proposed methods, we built an AudioDiffCaps dataset consisting of pairs of similar but slightly different audio clips with human-annotated descriptions of their differences. The experiment with the AudioDiffCaps dataset showed that the proposed methods solve the ADC task effectively and improve the attention weights to extract the difference by visualizing them in the transformer encoder. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** Quantum-Noise-driven Generative Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12013  
**Abstract:** Generative models realized with machine learning techniques are powerful tools to infer complex and unknown data distributions from a finite number of training samples in order to produce new synthetic data. Diffusion models are an emerging framework that have recently overcome the performance of the generative adversarial networks in creating synthetic text and high-quality images. Here, we propose and discuss the quantum generalization of diffusion models, i.e., three quantum-noise-driven generative diffusion models that could be experimentally tested on real quantum systems. The idea is to harness unique quantum features, in particular the non-trivial interplay among coherence, entanglement and noise that the currently available noisy quantum processors do unavoidably suffer from, in order to overcome the main computational burdens of classical diffusion models during inference. Hence, we suggest to exploit quantum noise not as an issue to be detected and solved but instead as a very remarkably beneficial key ingredient to generate much more complex probability distributions that would be difficult or even impossible to express classically, and from which a quantum processor might sample more efficiently than a classical one. Therefore, our results are expected to pave the way for new quantum-inspired or quantum-based generative diffusion algorithms addressing more powerfully classical tasks as data generation/prediction with widespread real-world applications ranging from climate forecasting to neuroscience, from traffic flow analysis to financial forecasting. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** DISGAN: Wavelet-informed Discriminator Guides GAN to MRI  Super-resolution with Noise Cleaning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12084  
**Abstract:** MRI super-resolution (SR) and denoising tasks are fundamental challenges in the field of deep learning, which have traditionally been treated as distinct tasks with separate paired training data. In this paper, we propose an innovative method that addresses both tasks simultaneously using a single deep learning model, eliminating the need for explicitly paired noisy and clean images during training. Our proposed model is primarily trained for SR, but also exhibits remarkable noise-cleaning capabilities in the super-resolved images. Instead of conventional approaches that introduce frequency-related operations into the generative process, our novel approach involves the use of a GAN model guided by a frequency-informed discriminator. To achieve this, we harness the power of the 3D Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) operation as a frequency constraint within the GAN framework for the SR task on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data. Specifically, our contributions include: 1) a 3D generator based on residual-in-residual connected blocks; 2) the integration of the 3D DWT with $1\times 1$ convolution into a DWT+conv unit within a 3D Unet for the discriminator; 3) the use of the trained model for high-quality image SR, accompanied by an intrinsic denoising process. We dub the model "Denoising Induced Super-resolution GAN (DISGAN)" due to its dual effects of SR image generation and simultaneous denoising. Departing from the traditional approach of training SR and denoising tasks as separate models, our proposed DISGAN is trained only on the SR task, but also achieves exceptional performance in denoising. The model is trained on 3D MRI data from dozens of subjects from the Human Connectome Project (HCP) and further evaluated on previously unseen MRI data from subjects with brain tumours and epilepsy to assess its denoising and SR performance. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** SPPNet: A Single-Point Prompt Network for Nuclei Image Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12231  
**Abstract:** Image segmentation plays an essential role in nuclei image analysis. Recently, the segment anything model has made a significant breakthrough in such tasks. However, the current model exists two major issues for cell segmentation: (1) the image encoder of the segment anything model involves a large number of parameters. Retraining or even fine-tuning the model still requires expensive computational resources. (2) in point prompt mode, points are sampled from the center of the ground truth and more than one set of points is expected to achieve reliable performance, which is not efficient for practical applications. In this paper, a single-point prompt network is proposed for nuclei image segmentation, called SPPNet. We replace the original image encoder with a lightweight vision transformer. Also, an effective convolutional block is added in parallel to extract the low-level semantic information from the image and compensate for the performance degradation due to the small image encoder. We propose a new point-sampling method based on the Gaussian kernel. The proposed model is evaluated on the MoNuSeg-2018 dataset. The result demonstrated that SPPNet outperforms existing U-shape architectures and shows faster convergence in training. Compared to the segment anything model, SPPNet shows roughly 20 times faster inference, with 1/70 parameters and computational cost. Particularly, only one set of points is required in both the training and inference phases, which is more reasonable for clinical applications. The code for our work and more technical details can be found at https://github.com/xq141839/SPPNet. 

