**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Diffusion-based Image Translation with Label Guidance for Domain  Adaptive Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12350  
**Abstract:** Translating images from a source domain to a target domain for learning target models is one of the most common strategies in domain adaptive semantic segmentation (DASS). However, existing methods still struggle to preserve semantically-consistent local details between the original and translated images. In this work, we present an innovative approach that addresses this challenge by using source-domain labels as explicit guidance during image translation. Concretely, we formulate cross-domain image translation as a denoising diffusion process and utilize a novel Semantic Gradient Guidance (SGG) method to constrain the translation process, conditioning it on the pixel-wise source labels. Additionally, a Progressive Translation Learning (PTL) strategy is devised to enable the SGG method to work reliably across domains with large gaps. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our approach over state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** AdVerb: Visually Guided Audio Dereverberation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12370  
**Abstract:** We present AdVerb, a novel audio-visual dereverberation framework that uses visual cues in addition to the reverberant sound to estimate clean audio. Although audio-only dereverberation is a well-studied problem, our approach incorporates the complementary visual modality to perform audio dereverberation. Given an image of the environment where the reverberated sound signal has been recorded, AdVerb employs a novel geometry-aware cross-modal transformer architecture that captures scene geometry and audio-visual cross-modal relationship to generate a complex ideal ratio mask, which, when applied to the reverberant audio predicts the clean sound. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated through extensive quantitative and qualitative evaluations. Our approach significantly outperforms traditional audio-only and audio-visual baselines on three downstream tasks: speech enhancement, speech recognition, and speaker verification, with relative improvements in the range of 18% - 82% on the LibriSpeech test-clean set. We also achieve highly satisfactory RT60 error scores on the AVSpeech dataset. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Vision Transformer Adapters for Generalizable Multitask Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12372  
**Abstract:** We introduce the first multitasking vision transformer adapters that learn generalizable task affinities which can be applied to novel tasks and domains. Integrated into an off-the-shelf vision transformer backbone, our adapters can simultaneously solve multiple dense vision tasks in a parameter-efficient manner, unlike existing multitasking transformers that are parametrically expensive. In contrast to concurrent methods, we do not require retraining or fine-tuning whenever a new task or domain is added. We introduce a task-adapted attention mechanism within our adapter framework that combines gradient-based task similarities with attention-based ones. The learned task affinities generalize to the following settings: zero-shot task transfer, unsupervised domain adaptation, and generalization without fine-tuning to novel domains. We demonstrate that our approach outperforms not only the existing convolutional neural network-based multitasking methods but also the vision transformer-based ones. Our project page is at \url{https://ivrl.github.io/VTAGML}. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** FG-Net: Facial Action Unit Detection with Generalizable Pyramidal  Features  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12380  
**Abstract:** Automatic detection of facial Action Units (AUs) allows for objective facial expression analysis. Due to the high cost of AU labeling and the limited size of existing benchmarks, previous AU detection methods tend to overfit the dataset, resulting in a significant performance loss when evaluated across corpora. To address this problem, we propose FG-Net for generalizable facial action unit detection. Specifically, FG-Net extracts feature maps from a StyleGAN2 model pre-trained on a large and diverse face image dataset. Then, these features are used to detect AUs with a Pyramid CNN Interpreter, making the training efficient and capturing essential local features. The proposed FG-Net achieves a strong generalization ability for heatmap-based AU detection thanks to the generalizable and semantic-rich features extracted from the pre-trained generative model. Extensive experiments are conducted to evaluate within- and cross-corpus AU detection with the widely-used DISFA and BP4D datasets. Compared with the state-of-the-art, the proposed method achieves superior cross-domain performance while maintaining competitive within-domain performance. In addition, FG-Net is data-efficient and achieves competitive performance even when trained on 1000 samples. Our code will be released at \url{https://github.com/ihp-lab/FG-Net} 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** With a Little Help from your own Past: Prototypical Memory Networks for  Image Captioning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12383  
**Abstract:** Image captioning, like many tasks involving vision and language, currently relies on Transformer-based architectures for extracting the semantics in an image and translating it into linguistically coherent descriptions. Although successful, the attention operator only considers a weighted summation of projections of the current input sample, therefore ignoring the relevant semantic information which can come from the joint observation of other samples. In this paper, we devise a network which can perform attention over activations obtained while processing other training samples, through a prototypical memory model. Our memory models the distribution of past keys and values through the definition of prototype vectors which are both discriminative and compact. Experimentally, we assess the performance of the proposed model on the COCO dataset, in comparison with carefully designed baselines and state-of-the-art approaches, and by investigating the role of each of the proposed components. We demonstrate that our proposal can increase the performance of an encoder-decoder Transformer by 3.7 CIDEr points both when training in cross-entropy only and when fine-tuning with self-critical sequence training. Source code and trained models are available at: https://github.com/aimagelab/PMA-Net. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Towards The Ultimate Brain: Exploring Scientific Discovery with ChatGPT  AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12400  
**Abstract:** This paper presents a novel approach to scientific discovery using an artificial intelligence (AI) environment known as ChatGPT, developed by OpenAI. This is the first paper entirely generated with outputs from ChatGPT. We demonstrate how ChatGPT can be instructed through a gamification environment to define and benchmark hypothetical physical theories. Through this environment, ChatGPT successfully simulates the creation of a new improved model, called GPT$^4$, which combines the concepts of GPT in AI (generative pretrained transformer) and GPT in physics (generalized probabilistic theory). We show that GPT$^4$ can use its built-in mathematical and statistical capabilities to simulate and analyze physical laws and phenomena. As a demonstration of its language capabilities, GPT$^4$ also generates a limerick about itself. Overall, our results demonstrate the promising potential for human-AI collaboration in scientific discovery, as well as the importance of designing systems that effectively integrate AI's capabilities with human intelligence. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** An Initial Exploration: Learning to Generate Realistic Audio for Silent  Video  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12408  
**Abstract:** Generating realistic audio effects for movies and other media is a challenging task that is accomplished today primarily through physical techniques known as Foley art. Foley artists create sounds with common objects (e.g., boxing gloves, broken glass) in time with video as it is playing to generate captivating audio tracks. In this work, we aim to develop a deep-learning based framework that does much the same - observes video in it's natural sequence and generates realistic audio to accompany it. Notably, we have reason to believe this is achievable due to advancements in realistic audio generation techniques conditioned on other inputs (e.g., Wavenet conditioned on text). We explore several different model architectures to accomplish this task that process both previously-generated audio and video context. These include deep-fusion CNN, dilated Wavenet CNN with visual context, and transformer-based architectures. We find that the transformer-based architecture yields the most promising results, matching low-frequencies to visual patterns effectively, but failing to generate more nuanced waveforms. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Benchmarking Causal Study to Interpret Large Language Models for Source  Code  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12415  
**Abstract:** One of the most common solutions adopted by software researchers to address code generation is by training Large Language Models (LLMs) on massive amounts of source code. Although a number of studies have shown that LLMs have been effectively evaluated on popular accuracy metrics (e.g., BLEU, CodeBleu), previous research has largely overlooked the role of Causal Inference as a fundamental component of the interpretability of LLMs' performance. Existing benchmarks and datasets are meant to highlight the difference between the expected and the generated outcome, but do not take into account confounding variables (e.g., lines of code, prompt size) that equally influence the accuracy metrics. The fact remains that, when dealing with generative software tasks by LLMs, no benchmark is available to tell researchers how to quantify neither the causal effect of SE-based treatments nor the correlation of confounders to the model's performance. In an effort to bring statistical rigor to the evaluation of LLMs, this paper introduces a benchmarking strategy named Galeras comprised of curated testbeds for three SE tasks (i.e., code completion, code summarization, and commit generation) to help aid the interpretation of LLMs' performance. We illustrate the insights of our benchmarking strategy by conducting a case study on the performance of ChatGPT under distinct prompt engineering methods. The results of the case study demonstrate the positive causal influence of prompt semantics on ChatGPT's generative performance by an average treatment effect of $\approx 3\%$. Moreover, it was found that confounders such as prompt size are highly correlated with accuracy metrics ($\approx 0.412\%$). The end result of our case study is to showcase causal inference evaluations, in practice, to reduce confounding bias. By reducing the bias, we offer an interpretable solution for the accuracy metric under analysis. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Evolution of ESG-focused DLT Research: An NLP Analysis of the Literature  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12420  
**Abstract:** Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLTs) have rapidly evolved, necessitating comprehensive insights into their diverse components. However, a systematic literature review that emphasizes the Environmental, Sustainability, and Governance (ESG) components of DLT remains lacking. To bridge this gap, we selected 107 seed papers to build a citation network of 63,083 references and refined it to a corpus of 24,539 publications for analysis. Then, we labeled the named entities in 46 papers according to twelve top-level categories derived from an established technology taxonomy and enhanced the taxonomy by pinpointing DLT's ESG elements. Leveraging transformer-based language models, we fine-tuned a pre-trained language model for a Named Entity Recognition (NER) task using our labeled dataset. We used our fine-tuned language model to distill the corpus to 505 key papers, facilitating a literature review via named entities and temporal graph analysis on DLT evolution in the context of ESG. Our contributions are a methodology to conduct a machine learning-driven systematic literature review in the DLT field, placing a special emphasis on ESG aspects. Furthermore, we present a first-of-its-kind NER dataset, composed of 54,808 named entities, designed for DLT and ESG-related explorations. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** BaDExpert: Extracting Backdoor Functionality for Accurate Backdoor Input  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12439  
**Abstract:** We present a novel defense, against backdoor attacks on Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), wherein adversaries covertly implant malicious behaviors (backdoors) into DNNs. Our defense falls within the category of post-development defenses that operate independently of how the model was generated. The proposed defense is built upon a novel reverse engineering approach that can directly extract backdoor functionality of a given backdoored model to a backdoor expert model. The approach is straightforward -- finetuning the backdoored model over a small set of intentionally mislabeled clean samples, such that it unlearns the normal functionality while still preserving the backdoor functionality, and thus resulting in a model (dubbed a backdoor expert model) that can only recognize backdoor inputs. Based on the extracted backdoor expert model, we show the feasibility of devising highly accurate backdoor input detectors that filter out the backdoor inputs during model inference. Further augmented by an ensemble strategy with a finetuned auxiliary model, our defense, BaDExpert (Backdoor Input Detection with Backdoor Expert), effectively mitigates 16 SOTA backdoor attacks while minimally impacting clean utility. The effectiveness of BaDExpert has been verified on multiple datasets (CIFAR10, GTSRB and ImageNet) across various model architectures (ResNet, VGG, MobileNetV2 and Vision Transformer). 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** MOFO: MOtion FOcused Self-Supervision for Video Understanding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12447  
**Abstract:** Self-supervised learning (SSL) techniques have recently produced outstanding results in learning visual representations from unlabeled videos. Despite the importance of motion in supervised learning techniques for action recognition, SSL methods often do not explicitly consider motion information in videos. To address this issue, we propose MOFO (MOtion FOcused), a novel SSL method for focusing representation learning on the motion area of a video, for action recognition. MOFO automatically detects motion areas in videos and uses these to guide the self-supervision task. We use a masked autoencoder which randomly masks out a high proportion of the input sequence; we force a specified percentage of the inside of the motion area to be masked and the remainder from outside. We further incorporate motion information into the finetuning step to emphasise motion in the downstream task. We demonstrate that our motion-focused innovations can significantly boost the performance of the currently leading SSL method (VideoMAE) for action recognition. Our method improves the recent self-supervised Vision Transformer (ViT), VideoMAE, by achieving +2.6%, +2.1%, +1.3% accuracy on Epic-Kitchens verb, noun and action classification, respectively, and +4.7% accuracy on Something-Something V2 action classification. Our proposed approach significantly improves the performance of the current SSL method for action recognition, indicating the importance of explicitly encoding motion in SSL. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Augmenting medical image classifiers with synthetic data from latent  diffusion models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12453  
**Abstract:** While hundreds of artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms are now approved or cleared by the US Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), many studies have shown inconsistent generalization or latent bias, particularly for underrepresented populations. Some have proposed that generative AI could reduce the need for real data, but its utility in model development remains unclear. Skin disease serves as a useful case study in synthetic image generation due to the diversity of disease appearance, particularly across the protected attribute of skin tone. Here we show that latent diffusion models can scalably generate images of skin disease and that augmenting model training with these data improves performance in data-limited settings. These performance gains saturate at synthetic-to-real image ratios above 10:1 and are substantially smaller than the gains obtained from adding real images. As part of our analysis, we generate and analyze a new dataset of 458,920 synthetic images produced using several generation strategies. Our results suggest that synthetic data could serve as a force-multiplier for model development, but the collection of diverse real-world data remains the most important step to improve medical AI algorithms. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** PFL-GAN: When Client Heterogeneity Meets Generative Models in  Personalized Federated Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12454  
**Abstract:** Recent advances of generative learning models are accompanied by the growing interest in federated learning (FL) based on generative adversarial network (GAN) models. In the context of FL, GAN can capture the underlying client data structure, and regenerate samples resembling the original data distribution without compromising the private raw data. Although most existing GAN-based FL works focus on training a global model, Personalized FL (PFL) sometimes can be more effective in view of client data heterogeneity in terms of distinct data sample distributions, feature spaces, and labels. To cope with client heterogeneity in GAN-based FL, we propose a novel GAN sharing and aggregation strategy for PFL. The proposed PFL-GAN addresses the client heterogeneity in different scenarios. More specially, we first learn the similarity among clients and then develop an weighted collaborative data aggregation. The empirical results through the rigorous experimentation on several well-known datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of PFL-GAN. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Are ChatGPT and GPT-4 Good Poker Players? -- A Pre-Flop Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12466  
**Abstract:** Since the introduction of ChatGPT and GPT-4, these models have been tested across a large number of tasks. Their adeptness across domains is evident, but their aptitude in playing games and specifically their aptitude in the realm of poker has remained unexplored. Poker is a game that requires decision making under uncertainty and incomplete information. In this paper, we put ChatGPT and GPT-4 through the poker test and evaluate their poker skills. Our findings reveal that while both models display an advanced understanding of poker, encompassing concepts like the valuation of starting hands, playing positions and other intricacies of game theory optimal (GTO) poker, both ChatGPT and GPT-4 are NOT game theory optimal poker players. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Diffuse, Attend, and Segment: Unsupervised Zero-Shot Segmentation using  Stable Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12469  
**Abstract:** Producing quality segmentation masks for images is a fundamental problem in computer vision. Recent research has explored large-scale supervised training to enable zero-shot segmentation on virtually any image style and unsupervised training to enable segmentation without dense annotations. However, constructing a model capable of segmenting anything in a zero-shot manner without any annotations is still challenging. In this paper, we propose to utilize the self-attention layers in stable diffusion models to achieve this goal because the pre-trained stable diffusion model has learned inherent concepts of objects within its attention layers. Specifically, we introduce a simple yet effective iterative merging process based on measuring KL divergence among attention maps to merge them into valid segmentation masks. The proposed method does not require any training or language dependency to extract quality segmentation for any images. On COCO-Stuff-27, our method surpasses the prior unsupervised zero-shot SOTA method by an absolute 26% in pixel accuracy and 17% in mean IoU. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** American Stories: A Large-Scale Structured Text Dataset of Historical  U.S. Newspapers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12477  
**Abstract:** Existing full text datasets of U.S. public domain newspapers do not recognize the often complex layouts of newspaper scans, and as a result the digitized content scrambles texts from articles, headlines, captions, advertisements, and other layout regions. OCR quality can also be low. This study develops a novel, deep learning pipeline for extracting full article texts from newspaper images and applies it to the nearly 20 million scans in Library of Congress's public domain Chronicling America collection. The pipeline includes layout detection, legibility classification, custom OCR, and association of article texts spanning multiple bounding boxes. To achieve high scalability, it is built with efficient architectures designed for mobile phones. The resulting American Stories dataset provides high quality data that could be used for pre-training a large language model to achieve better understanding of historical English and historical world knowledge. The dataset could also be added to the external database of a retrieval-augmented language model to make historical information - ranging from interpretations of political events to minutiae about the lives of people's ancestors - more widely accessible. Furthermore, structured article texts facilitate using transformer-based methods for popular social science applications like topic classification, detection of reproduced content, and news story clustering. Finally, American Stories provides a massive silver quality dataset for innovating multimodal layout analysis models and other multimodal applications. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** GPTEval: A Survey on Assessments of ChatGPT and GPT-4  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12488  
**Abstract:** The emergence of ChatGPT has generated much speculation in the press about its potential to disrupt social and economic systems. Its astonishing language ability has aroused strong curiosity among scholars about its performance in different domains. There have been many studies evaluating the ability of ChatGPT and GPT-4 in different tasks and disciplines. However, a comprehensive review summarizing the collective assessment findings is lacking. The objective of this survey is to thoroughly analyze prior assessments of ChatGPT and GPT-4, focusing on its language and reasoning abilities, scientific knowledge, and ethical considerations. Furthermore, an examination of the existing evaluation methods is conducted, offering several recommendations for future research in evaluating large language models. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** False Information, Bots and Malicious Campaigns: Demystifying Elements  of Social Media Manipulations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12497  
**Abstract:** The rapid spread of false information and persistent manipulation attacks on online social networks (OSNs), often for political, ideological, or financial gain, has affected the openness of OSNs. While researchers from various disciplines have investigated different manipulation-triggering elements of OSNs (such as understanding information diffusion on OSNs or detecting automated behavior of accounts), these works have not been consolidated to present a comprehensive overview of the interconnections among these elements. Notably, user psychology, the prevalence of bots, and their tactics in relation to false information detection have been overlooked in previous research. To address this research gap, this paper synthesizes insights from various disciplines to provide a comprehensive analysis of the manipulation landscape. By integrating the primary elements of social media manipulation (SMM), including false information, bots, and malicious campaigns, we extensively examine each SMM element. Through a systematic investigation of prior research, we identify commonalities, highlight existing gaps, and extract valuable insights in the field. Our findings underscore the urgent need for interdisciplinary research to effectively combat social media manipulations, and our systematization can guide future research efforts and assist OSN providers in ensuring the safety and integrity of their platforms. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** DD-GCN: Directed Diffusion Graph Convolutional Network for  Skeleton-based Human Action Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12501  
**Abstract:** Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) have been widely used in skeleton-based human action recognition. In GCN-based methods, the spatio-temporal graph is fundamental for capturing motion patterns. However, existing approaches ignore the physical dependency and synchronized spatio-temporal correlations between joints, which limits the representation capability of GCNs. To solve these problems, we construct the directed diffusion graph for action modeling and introduce the activity partition strategy to optimize the weight sharing mechanism of graph convolution kernels. In addition, we present the spatio-temporal synchronization encoder to embed synchronized spatio-temporal semantics. Finally, we propose Directed Diffusion Graph Convolutional Network (DD-GCN) for action recognition, and the experiments on three public datasets: NTU-RGB+D, NTU-RGB+D 120, and NW-UCLA, demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our method. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Parameter-Efficient Transfer Learning for Remote Sensing Image-Text  Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12509  
**Abstract:** Vision-and-language pre-training (VLP) models have experienced a surge in popularity recently. By fine-tuning them on specific datasets, significant performance improvements have been observed in various tasks. However, full fine-tuning of VLP models not only consumes a significant amount of computational resources but also has a significant environmental impact. Moreover, as remote sensing (RS) data is constantly being updated, full fine-tuning may not be practical for real-world applications. To address this issue, in this work, we investigate the parameter-efficient transfer learning (PETL) method to effectively and efficiently transfer visual-language knowledge from the natural domain to the RS domain on the image-text retrieval task. To this end, we make the following contributions. 1) We construct a novel and sophisticated PETL framework for the RS image-text retrieval (RSITR) task, which includes the pretrained CLIP model, a multimodal remote sensing adapter, and a hybrid multi-modal contrastive (HMMC) learning objective; 2) To deal with the problem of high intra-modal similarity in RS data, we design a simple yet effective HMMC loss; 3) We provide comprehensive empirical studies for PETL-based RS image-text retrieval. Our results demonstrate that the proposed method is promising and of great potential for practical applications. 4) We benchmark extensive state-of-the-art PETL methods on the RSITR task. Our proposed model only contains 0.16M training parameters, which can achieve a parameter reduction of 98.9% compared to full fine-tuning, resulting in substantial savings in training costs. Our retrieval performance exceeds traditional methods by 7-13% and achieves comparable or better performance than full fine-tuning. This work can provide new ideas and useful insights for RS vision-language tasks. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Masked Autoencoders are Efficient Class Incremental Learners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12510  
**Abstract:** Class Incremental Learning (CIL) aims to sequentially learn new classes while avoiding catastrophic forgetting of previous knowledge. We propose to use Masked Autoencoders (MAEs) as efficient learners for CIL. MAEs were originally designed to learn useful representations through reconstructive unsupervised learning, and they can be easily integrated with a supervised loss for classification. Moreover, MAEs can reliably reconstruct original input images from randomly selected patches, which we use to store exemplars from past tasks more efficiently for CIL. We also propose a bilateral MAE framework to learn from image-level and embedding-level fusion, which produces better-quality reconstructed images and more stable representations. Our experiments confirm that our approach performs better than the state-of-the-art on CIFAR-100, ImageNet-Subset, and ImageNet-Full. The code is available at https://github.com/scok30/MAE-CIL . 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Large Language Model as Autonomous Decision Maker  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12519  
**Abstract:** While large language models (LLMs) exhibit impressive language understanding and in-context learning abilities, their decision-making ability still heavily relies on the guidance of task-specific expert knowledge when solving real-world tasks. To unleash the potential of LLMs as autonomous decision makers, this paper presents an approach JuDec to endow LLMs with the self-judgment ability, enabling LLMs to achieve autonomous judgment and exploration for decision making. Specifically, in JuDec, Elo-based Self-Judgment Mechanism is designed to assign Elo scores to decision steps to judge their values and utilities via pairwise comparisons between two solutions and then guide the decision-searching process toward the optimal solution accordingly. Experimental results on the ToolBench dataset demonstrate JuDec's superiority over baselines, achieving over 10% improvement in Pass Rate on diverse tasks. It offers higher-quality solutions and reduces costs (ChatGPT API calls), highlighting its effectiveness and efficiency. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** SieveNet: Selecting Point-Based Features for Mesh Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12530  
**Abstract:** Meshes are widely used in 3D computer vision and graphics, but their irregular topology poses challenges in applying them to existing neural network architectures. Recent advances in mesh neural networks turn to remeshing and push the boundary of pioneer methods that solely take the raw meshes as input. Although the remeshing offers a regular topology that significantly facilitates the design of mesh network architectures, features extracted from such remeshed proxies may struggle to retain the underlying geometry faithfully, limiting the subsequent neural network's capacity. To address this issue, we propose SieveNet, a novel paradigm that takes into account both the regular topology and the exact geometry. Specifically, this method utilizes structured mesh topology from remeshing and accurate geometric information from distortion-aware point sampling on the surface of the original mesh. Furthermore, our method eliminates the need for hand-crafted feature engineering and can leverage off-the-shelf network architectures such as the vision transformer. Comprehensive experimental results on classification and segmentation tasks well demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our method. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** HuBo-VLM: Unified Vision-Language Model designed for HUman roBOt  interaction tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12537  
**Abstract:** Human robot interaction is an exciting task, which aimed to guide robots following instructions from human. Since huge gap lies between human natural language and machine codes, end to end human robot interaction models is fair challenging. Further, visual information receiving from sensors of robot is also a hard language for robot to perceive. In this work, HuBo-VLM is proposed to tackle perception tasks associated with human robot interaction including object detection and visual grounding by a unified transformer based vision language model. Extensive experiments on the Talk2Car benchmark demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. Code would be publicly available in https://github.com/dzcgaara/HuBo-VLM. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Synchronize Feature Extracting and Matching: A Single Branch Framework  for 3D Object Tracking  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12549  
**Abstract:** Siamese network has been a de facto benchmark framework for 3D LiDAR object tracking with a shared-parametric encoder extracting features from template and search region, respectively. This paradigm relies heavily on an additional matching network to model the cross-correlation/similarity of the template and search region. In this paper, we forsake the conventional Siamese paradigm and propose a novel single-branch framework, SyncTrack, synchronizing the feature extracting and matching to avoid forwarding encoder twice for template and search region as well as introducing extra parameters of matching network. The synchronization mechanism is based on the dynamic affinity of the Transformer, and an in-depth analysis of the relevance is provided theoretically. Moreover, based on the synchronization, we introduce a novel Attentive Points-Sampling strategy into the Transformer layers (APST), replacing the random/Farthest Points Sampling (FPS) method with sampling under the supervision of attentive relations between the template and search region. It implies connecting point-wise sampling with the feature learning, beneficial to aggregating more distinctive and geometric features for tracking with sparse points. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets (KITTI and NuScenes) show that SyncTrack achieves state-of-the-art performance in real-time tracking. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** A Small and Fast BERT for Chinese Medical Punctuation Restoration  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12568  
**Abstract:** In clinical dictation, utterances after automatic speech recognition (ASR) without explicit punctuation marks may lead to the misunderstanding of dictated reports. To give a precise and understandable clinical report with ASR, automatic punctuation restoration is required. Considering a practical scenario, we propose a fast and light pre-trained model for Chinese medical punctuation restoration based on 'pretraining and fine-tuning' paradigm. In this work, we distill pre-trained models by incorporating supervised contrastive learning and a novel auxiliary pre-training task (Punctuation Mark Prediction) to make it well-suited for punctuation restoration. Our experiments on various distilled models reveal that our model can achieve 95% performance while 10% model size relative to state-of-the-art Chinese RoBERTa. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Mind vs. Mouth: On Measuring Re-judge Inconsistency of Social Bias in  Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12578  
**Abstract:** Recent researches indicate that Pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) possess cognitive constructs similar to those observed in humans, prompting researchers to investigate the cognitive aspects of LLMs. This paper focuses on explicit and implicit social bias, a distinctive two-level cognitive construct in psychology. It posits that individuals' explicit social bias, which is their conscious expression of bias in the statements, may differ from their implicit social bias, which represents their unconscious bias. We propose a two-stage approach and discover a parallel phenomenon in LLMs known as "re-judge inconsistency" in social bias. In the initial stage, the LLM is tasked with automatically completing statements, potentially incorporating implicit social bias. However, in the subsequent stage, the same LLM re-judges the biased statement generated by itself but contradicts it. We propose that this re-judge inconsistency can be similar to the inconsistency between human's unaware implicit social bias and their aware explicit social bias. Experimental investigations on ChatGPT and GPT-4 concerning common gender biases examined in psychology corroborate the highly stable nature of the re-judge inconsistency. This finding may suggest that diverse cognitive constructs emerge as LLMs' capabilities strengthen. Consequently, leveraging psychological theories can provide enhanced insights into the underlying mechanisms governing the expressions of explicit and implicit constructs in LLMs. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** PromptMRG: Diagnosis-Driven Prompts for Medical Report Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12604  
**Abstract:** Automatic medical report generation (MRG) is of great research value as it has the potential to relieve radiologists from the heavy burden of report writing. Despite recent advancements, accurate MRG remains challenging due to the need for precise clinical understanding and the identification of clinical findings. Moreover, the imbalanced distribution of diseases makes the challenge even more pronounced, as rare diseases are underrepresented in training data, making their diagnostic performance unreliable. To address these challenges, we propose diagnosis-driven prompts for medical report generation (PromptMRG), a novel framework that aims to improve the diagnostic accuracy of MRG with the guidance of diagnosis-aware prompts. Specifically, PromptMRG is based on encoder-decoder architecture with an extra disease classification branch. When generating reports, the diagnostic results from the classification branch are converted into token prompts to explicitly guide the generation process. To further improve the diagnostic accuracy, we design cross-modal feature enhancement, which retrieves similar reports from the database to assist the diagnosis of a query image by leveraging the knowledge from a pre-trained CLIP. Moreover, the disease imbalanced issue is addressed by applying an adaptive logit-adjusted loss to the classification branch based on the individual learning status of each disease, which overcomes the barrier of text decoder's inability to manipulate disease distributions. Experiments on two MRG benchmarks show the effectiveness of the proposed method, where it obtains state-of-the-art clinical efficacy performance on both datasets. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** APLA: Additional Perturbation for Latent Noise with Adversarial Training  Enables Consistency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12605  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have exhibited promising progress in video generation. However, they often struggle to retain consistent details within local regions across frames. One underlying cause is that traditional diffusion models approximate Gaussian noise distribution by utilizing predictive noise, without fully accounting for the impact of inherent information within the input itself. Additionally, these models emphasize the distinction between predictions and references, neglecting information intrinsic to the videos. To address this limitation, inspired by the self-attention mechanism, we propose a novel text-to-video (T2V) generation network structure based on diffusion models, dubbed Additional Perturbation for Latent noise with Adversarial training (APLA). Our approach only necessitates a single video as input and builds upon pre-trained stable diffusion networks. Notably, we introduce an additional compact network, known as the Video Generation Transformer (VGT). This auxiliary component is designed to extract perturbations from the inherent information contained within the input, thereby refining inconsistent pixels during temporal predictions. We leverage a hybrid architecture of transformers and convolutions to compensate for temporal intricacies, enhancing consistency between different frames within the video. Experiments demonstrate a noticeable improvement in the consistency of the generated videos both qualitatively and quantitatively. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Hydrogen jet diffusion modeling by using physics-informed graph neural  network and sparsely-distributed sensor data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12621  
**Abstract:** Efficient modeling of jet diffusion during accidental release is critical for operation and maintenance management of hydrogen facilities. Deep learning has proven effective for concentration prediction in gas jet diffusion scenarios. Nonetheless, its reliance on extensive simulations as training data and its potential disregard for physical laws limit its applicability to unseen accidental scenarios. Recently, physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) have emerged to reconstruct spatial information by using data from sparsely-distributed sensors which are easily collected in real-world applications. However, prevailing approaches use the fully-connected neural network as the backbone without considering the spatial dependency of sensor data, which reduces the accuracy of concentration prediction. This study introduces the physics-informed graph deep learning approach (Physic_GNN) for efficient and accurate hydrogen jet diffusion prediction by using sparsely-distributed sensor data. Graph neural network (GNN) is used to model the spatial dependency of such sensor data by using graph nodes at which governing equations describing the physical law of hydrogen jet diffusion are immediately solved. The computed residuals are then applied to constrain the training process. Public experimental data of hydrogen jet is used to compare the accuracy and efficiency between our proposed approach Physic_GNN and state-of-the-art PINN. The results demonstrate our Physic_GNN exhibits higher accuracy and physical consistency of centerline concentration prediction given sparse concentration compared to PINN and more efficient compared to OpenFOAM. The proposed approach enables accurate and robust real-time spatial consequence reconstruction and underlying physical mechanisms analysis by using sparse sensor data. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Towards Hierarchical Regional Transformer-based Multiple Instance  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12634  
**Abstract:** The classification of gigapixel histopathology images with deep multiple instance learning models has become a critical task in digital pathology and precision medicine. In this work, we propose a Transformer-based multiple instance learning approach that replaces the traditional learned attention mechanism with a regional, Vision Transformer inspired self-attention mechanism. We present a method that fuses regional patch information to derive slide-level predictions and show how this regional aggregation can be stacked to hierarchically process features on different distance levels. To increase predictive accuracy, especially for datasets with small, local morphological features, we introduce a method to focus the image processing on high attention regions during inference. Our approach is able to significantly improve performance over the baseline on two histopathology datasets and points towards promising directions for further research. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Exploring Transferability of Multimodal Adversarial Samples for  Vision-Language Pre-training Models with Contrastive Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12636  
**Abstract:** Vision-language pre-training models (VLP) are vulnerable, especially to multimodal adversarial samples, which can be crafted by adding imperceptible perturbations on both original images and texts. However, under the black-box setting, there have been no works to explore the transferability of multimodal adversarial attacks against the VLP models. In this work, we take CLIP as the surrogate model and propose a gradient-based multimodal attack method to generate transferable adversarial samples against the VLP models. By applying the gradient to optimize the adversarial images and adversarial texts simultaneously, our method can better search for and attack the vulnerable images and text information pairs. To improve the transferability of the attack, we utilize contrastive learning including image-text contrastive learning and intra-modal contrastive learning to have a more generalized understanding of the underlying data distribution and mitigate the overfitting of the surrogate model so that the generated multimodal adversarial samples have a higher transferability for VLP models. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** kTrans: Knowledge-Aware Transformer for Binary Code Embedding  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12659  
**Abstract:** Binary Code Embedding (BCE) has important applications in various reverse engineering tasks such as binary code similarity detection, type recovery, control-flow recovery and data-flow analysis. Recent studies have shown that the Transformer model can comprehend the semantics of binary code to support downstream tasks. However, existing models overlooked the prior knowledge of assembly language. In this paper, we propose a novel Transformer-based approach, namely kTrans, to generate knowledge-aware binary code embedding. By feeding explicit knowledge as additional inputs to the Transformer, and fusing implicit knowledge with a novel pre-training task, kTrans provides a new perspective to incorporating domain knowledge into a Transformer framework. We inspect the generated embeddings with outlier detection and visualization, and also apply kTrans to 3 downstream tasks: Binary Code Similarity Detection (BCSD), Function Type Recovery (FTR) and Indirect Call Recognition (ICR). Evaluation results show that kTrans can generate high-quality binary code embeddings, and outperforms state-of-the-art (SOTA) approaches on downstream tasks by 5.2%, 6.8%, and 12.6% respectively. kTrans is publicly available at: https://github.com/Learner0x5a/kTrans-release 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Disentanglement Learning via Topology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12696  
**Abstract:** We propose TopDis (Topological Disentanglement), a method for learning disentangled representations via adding multi-scale topological loss term. Disentanglement is a crucial property of data representations substantial for the explainability and robustness of deep learning models and a step towards high-level cognition. The state-of-the-art method based on VAE minimizes the total correlation of the joint distribution of latent variables. We take a different perspective on disentanglement by analyzing topological properties of data manifolds. In particular, we optimize the topological similarity for data manifolds traversals. To the best of our knowledge, our paper is the first one to propose a differentiable topological loss for disentanglement. Our experiments have shown that the proposed topological loss improves disentanglement scores such as MIG, FactorVAE score, SAP score and DCI disentanglement score with respect to state-of-the-art results. Our method works in an unsupervised manner, permitting to apply it for problems without labeled factors of variation. Additionally, we show how to use the proposed topological loss to find disentangled directions in a trained GAN. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Prompt-Enhanced Software Vulnerability Detection Using ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12697  
**Abstract:** With the increase in software vulnerabilities that cause significant economic and social losses, automatic vulnerability detection has become essential in software development and maintenance. Recently, large language models (LLMs) like GPT have received considerable attention due to their stunning intelligence, and some studies consider using ChatGPT for vulnerability detection. However, they do not fully consider the characteristics of LLMs, since their designed questions to ChatGPT are simple without a specific prompt design tailored for vulnerability detection. This paper launches a study on the performance of software vulnerability detection using ChatGPT with different prompt designs. Firstly, we complement previous work by applying various improvements to the basic prompt. Moreover, we incorporate structural and sequential auxiliary information to improve the prompt design. Besides, we leverage ChatGPT's ability of memorizing multi-round dialogue to design suitable prompts for vulnerability detection. We conduct extensive experiments on two vulnerability datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of prompt-enhanced vulnerability detection using ChatGPT. We also analyze the merit and demerit of using ChatGPT for vulnerability detection. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** A Parse-Then-Place Approach for Generating Graphic Layouts from Textual  Descriptions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12700  
**Abstract:** Creating layouts is a fundamental step in graphic design. In this work, we propose to use text as the guidance to create graphic layouts, i.e., Text-to-Layout, aiming to lower the design barriers. Text-to-Layout is a challenging task, because it needs to consider the implicit, combined, and incomplete layout constraints from text, each of which has not been studied in previous work. To address this, we present a two-stage approach, named parse-then-place. The approach introduces an intermediate representation (IR) between text and layout to represent diverse layout constraints. With IR, Text-to-Layout is decomposed into a parse stage and a place stage. The parse stage takes a textual description as input and generates an IR, in which the implicit constraints from the text are transformed into explicit ones. The place stage generates layouts based on the IR. To model combined and incomplete constraints, we use a Transformer-based layout generation model and carefully design a way to represent constraints and layouts as sequences. Besides, we adopt the pretrain-then-finetune strategy to boost the performance of the layout generation model with large-scale unlabeled layouts. To evaluate our approach, we construct two Text-to-Layout datasets and conduct experiments on them. Quantitative results, qualitative analysis, and user studies demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Harnessing the Power of David against Goliath: Exploring Instruction  Data Generation without Using Closed-Source Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12711  
**Abstract:** Instruction tuning is instrumental in enabling Large Language Models~(LLMs) to follow user instructions to complete various open-domain tasks. The success of instruction tuning depends on the availability of high-quality instruction data. Owing to the exorbitant cost and substandard quality of human annotation, recent works have been deeply engaged in the exploration of the utilization of powerful closed-source models to generate instruction data automatically. However, these methods carry potential risks arising from the usage requirements of powerful closed-source models, which strictly forbid the utilization of their outputs to develop machine learning models. To deal with this problem, in this work, we explore alternative approaches to generate high-quality instruction data that do not rely on closed-source models. Our exploration includes an investigation of various existing instruction generation methods, culminating in the integration of the most efficient variant with two novel strategies to enhance the quality further. Evaluation results from two benchmarks and the GPT-4 model demonstrate the effectiveness of our generated instruction data, which can outperform Alpaca, a method reliant on closed-source models. We hope that more progress can be achieved in generating high-quality instruction data without using closed-source models. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** VIGC: Visual Instruction Generation and Correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12714  
**Abstract:** The integration of visual encoders and large language models (LLMs) has driven recent progress in multimodal large language models (MLLMs). However, the scarcity of high-quality instruction-tuning data for vision-language tasks remains a challenge. The current leading paradigm, such as LLaVA, relies on language-only GPT-4 to generate data, which requires pre-annotated image captions and detection bounding boxes, suffering from understanding image details. A practical solution to this problem would be to utilize the available multimodal large language models (MLLMs) to generate instruction data for vision-language tasks. However, it's worth noting that the currently accessible MLLMs are not as powerful as their LLM counterparts, as they tend to produce inadequate responses and generate false information. As a solution for addressing the current issue, this paper proposes the Visual Instruction Generation and Correction (VIGC) framework that enables multimodal large language models to generate instruction-tuning data and progressively enhance its quality on-the-fly. Specifically, Visual Instruction Generation (VIG) guides the vision-language model to generate diverse instruction-tuning data. To ensure generation quality, Visual Instruction Correction (VIC) adopts an iterative update mechanism to correct any inaccuracies in data produced by VIG, effectively reducing the risk of hallucination. Leveraging the diverse, high-quality data generated by VIGC, we finetune mainstream models and validate data quality based on various evaluations. Experimental results demonstrate that VIGC not only compensates for the shortcomings of language-only data generation methods, but also effectively enhances the benchmark performance. The models, datasets, and code will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** DeepLOC: Deep Learning-based Bone Pathology Localization and  Classification in Wrist X-ray Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12727  
**Abstract:** In recent years, computer-aided diagnosis systems have shown great potential in assisting radiologists with accurate and efficient medical image analysis. This paper presents a novel approach for bone pathology localization and classification in wrist X-ray images using a combination of YOLO (You Only Look Once) and the Shifted Window Transformer (Swin) with a newly proposed block. The proposed methodology addresses two critical challenges in wrist X-ray analysis: accurate localization of bone pathologies and precise classification of abnormalities. The YOLO framework is employed to detect and localize bone pathologies, leveraging its real-time object detection capabilities. Additionally, the Swin, a transformer-based module, is utilized to extract contextual information from the localized regions of interest (ROIs) for accurate classification. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** Learning Heavily-Degraded Prior for Underwater Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12738  
**Abstract:** Underwater object detection suffers from low detection performance because the distance and wavelength dependent imaging process yield evident image quality degradations such as haze-like effects, low visibility, and color distortions. Therefore, we commit to resolving the issue of underwater object detection with compounded environmental degradations. Typical approaches attempt to develop sophisticated deep architecture to generate high-quality images or features. However, these methods are only work for limited ranges because imaging factors are either unstable, too sensitive, or compounded. Unlike these approaches catering for high-quality images or features, this paper seeks transferable prior knowledge from detector-friendly images. The prior guides detectors removing degradations that interfere with detection. It is based on statistical observations that, the heavily degraded regions of detector-friendly (DFUI) and underwater images have evident feature distribution gaps while the lightly degraded regions of them overlap each other. Therefore, we propose a residual feature transference module (RFTM) to learn a mapping between deep representations of the heavily degraded patches of DFUI- and underwater- images, and make the mapping as a heavily degraded prior (HDP) for underwater detection. Since the statistical properties are independent to image content, HDP can be learned without the supervision of semantic labels and plugged into popular CNNbased feature extraction networks to improve their performance on underwater object detection. Without bells and whistles, evaluations on URPC2020 and UODD show that our methods outperform CNN-based detectors by a large margin. Our method with higher speeds and less parameters still performs better than transformer-based detectors. Our code and DFUI dataset can be found in https://github.com/xiaoDetection/Learning-Heavily-Degraed-Prior. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** PartSeg: Few-shot Part Segmentation via Part-aware Prompt Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12757  
**Abstract:** In this work, we address the task of few-shot part segmentation, which aims to segment the different parts of an unseen object using very few labeled examples. It is found that leveraging the textual space of a powerful pre-trained image-language model (such as CLIP) can be beneficial in learning visual features. Therefore, we develop a novel method termed PartSeg for few-shot part segmentation based on multimodal learning. Specifically, we design a part-aware prompt learning method to generate part-specific prompts that enable the CLIP model to better understand the concept of ``part'' and fully utilize its textual space. Furthermore, since the concept of the same part under different object categories is general, we establish relationships between these parts during the prompt learning process. We conduct extensive experiments on the PartImageNet and Pascal$\_$Part datasets, and the experimental results demonstrated that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** Pre-training Code Representation with Semantic Flow Graph for Effective  Bug Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12773  
**Abstract:** Enlightened by the big success of pre-training in natural language processing, pre-trained models for programming languages have been widely used to promote code intelligence in recent years. In particular, BERT has been used for bug localization tasks and impressive results have been obtained. However, these BERT-based bug localization techniques suffer from two issues. First, the pre-trained BERT model on source code does not adequately capture the deep semantics of program code. Second, the overall bug localization models neglect the necessity of large-scale negative samples in contrastive learning for representations of changesets and ignore the lexical similarity between bug reports and changesets during similarity estimation. We address these two issues by 1) proposing a novel directed, multiple-label code graph representation named Semantic Flow Graph (SFG), which compactly and adequately captures code semantics, 2) designing and training SemanticCodeBERT based on SFG, and 3) designing a novel Hierarchical Momentum Contrastive Bug Localization technique (HMCBL). Evaluation results show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in bug localization. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** Sparks of Large Audio Models: A Survey and Outlook  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12792  
**Abstract:** This survey paper provides a comprehensive overview of the recent advancements and challenges in applying large language models to the field of audio signal processing. Audio processing, with its diverse signal representations and a wide range of sources--from human voices to musical instruments and environmental sounds--poses challenges distinct from those found in traditional Natural Language Processing scenarios. Nevertheless, \textit{Large Audio Models}, epitomized by transformer-based architectures, have shown marked efficacy in this sphere. By leveraging massive amount of data, these models have demonstrated prowess in a variety of audio tasks, spanning from Automatic Speech Recognition and Text-To-Speech to Music Generation, among others. Notably, recently these Foundational Audio Models, like SeamlessM4T, have started showing abilities to act as universal translators, supporting multiple speech tasks for up to 100 languages without any reliance on separate task-specific systems. This paper presents an in-depth analysis of state-of-the-art methodologies regarding \textit{Foundational Large Audio Models}, their performance benchmarks, and their applicability to real-world scenarios. We also highlight current limitations and provide insights into potential future research directions in the realm of \textit{Large Audio Models} with the intent to spark further discussion, thereby fostering innovation in the next generation of audio-processing systems. Furthermore, to cope with the rapid development in this area, we will consistently update the relevant repository with relevant recent articles and their open-source implementations at https://github.com/EmulationAI/awesome-large-audio-models. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** MixNet: Toward Accurate Detection of Challenging Scene Text in the Wild  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12817  
**Abstract:** Detecting small scene text instances in the wild is particularly challenging, where the influence of irregular positions and nonideal lighting often leads to detection errors. We present MixNet, a hybrid architecture that combines the strengths of CNNs and Transformers, capable of accurately detecting small text from challenging natural scenes, regardless of the orientations, styles, and lighting conditions. MixNet incorporates two key modules: (1) the Feature Shuffle Network (FSNet) to serve as the backbone and (2) the Central Transformer Block (CTBlock) to exploit the 1D manifold constraint of the scene text. We first introduce a novel feature shuffling strategy in FSNet to facilitate the exchange of features across multiple scales, generating high-resolution features superior to popular ResNet and HRNet. The FSNet backbone has achieved significant improvements over many existing text detection methods, including PAN, DB, and FAST. Then we design a complementary CTBlock to leverage center line based features similar to the medial axis of text regions and show that it can outperform contour-based approaches in challenging cases when small scene texts appear closely. Extensive experimental results show that MixNet, which mixes FSNet with CTBlock, achieves state-of-the-art results on multiple scene text detection datasets. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** EFormer: Enhanced Transformer towards Semantic-Contour Features of  Foreground for Portraits Matting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12831  
**Abstract:** The portrait matting task aims to extract an alpha matte with complete semantics and finely-detailed contours. In comparison to CNN-based approaches, transformers with self-attention allow a larger receptive field, enabling it to better capture long-range dependencies and low-frequency semantic information of a portrait. However, the recent research shows that self-attention mechanism struggle with modeling high-frequency information and capturing fine contour details, which can lead to bias while predicting the portrait's contours. To address the problem, we propose EFormer to enhance the model's attention towards semantic and contour features. Especially the latter, which is surrounded by a large amount of high-frequency details. We build a semantic and contour detector (SCD) to accurately capture the distribution of semantic and contour features. And we further design contour-edge extraction branch and semantic extraction branch for refining contour features and complete semantic information. Finally, we fuse the two kinds of features and leverage the segmentation head to generate the predicted portrait matte. Remarkably, EFormer is an end-to-end trimap-free method and boasts a simple structure. Experiments conducted on VideoMatte240K-JPEGSD and AIM datasets demonstrate that EFormer outperforms previous portrait matte methods. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Text Similarity from Image Contents using Statistical and Semantic  Analysis Techniques  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12842  
**Abstract:** Plagiarism detection is one of the most researched areas among the Natural Language Processing(NLP) community. A good plagiarism detection covers all the NLP methods including semantics, named entities, paraphrases etc. and produces detailed plagiarism reports. Detection of Cross Lingual Plagiarism requires deep knowledge of various advanced methods and algorithms to perform effective text similarity checking. Nowadays the plagiarists are also advancing themselves from hiding the identity from being catch in such offense. The plagiarists are bypassed from being detected with techniques like paraphrasing, synonym replacement, mismatching citations, translating one language to another. Image Content Plagiarism Detection (ICPD) has gained importance, utilizing advanced image content processing to identify instances of plagiarism to ensure the integrity of image content. The issue of plagiarism extends beyond textual content, as images such as figures, graphs, and tables also have the potential to be plagiarized. However, image content plagiarism detection remains an unaddressed challenge. Therefore, there is a critical need to develop methods and systems for detecting plagiarism in image content. In this paper, the system has been implemented to detect plagiarism form contents of Images such as Figures, Graphs, Tables etc. Along with statistical algorithms such as Jaccard and Cosine, introducing semantic algorithms such as LSA, BERT, WordNet outperformed in detecting efficient and accurate plagiarism. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** ToonTalker: Cross-Domain Face Reenactment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12866  
**Abstract:** We target cross-domain face reenactment in this paper, i.e., driving a cartoon image with the video of a real person and vice versa. Recently, many works have focused on one-shot talking face generation to drive a portrait with a real video, i.e., within-domain reenactment. Straightforwardly applying those methods to cross-domain animation will cause inaccurate expression transfer, blur effects, and even apparent artifacts due to the domain shift between cartoon and real faces. Only a few works attempt to settle cross-domain face reenactment. The most related work AnimeCeleb requires constructing a dataset with pose vector and cartoon image pairs by animating 3D characters, which makes it inapplicable anymore if no paired data is available. In this paper, we propose a novel method for cross-domain reenactment without paired data. Specifically, we propose a transformer-based framework to align the motions from different domains into a common latent space where motion transfer is conducted via latent code addition. Two domain-specific motion encoders and two learnable motion base memories are used to capture domain properties. A source query transformer and a driving one are exploited to project domain-specific motion to the canonical space. The edited motion is projected back to the domain of the source with a transformer. Moreover, since no paired data is provided, we propose a novel cross-domain training scheme using data from two domains with the designed analogy constraint. Besides, we contribute a cartoon dataset in Disney style. Extensive evaluations demonstrate the superiority of our method over competing methods. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Easy attention: A simple self-attention mechanism for Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12874  
**Abstract:** To improve the robustness of transformer neural networks used for temporal-dynamics prediction of chaotic systems, we propose a novel attention mechanism called easy attention. Due to the fact that self attention only makes usage of the inner product of queries and keys, it is demonstrated that the keys, queries and softmax are not necessary for obtaining the attention score required to capture long-term dependencies in temporal sequences. Through implementing singular-value decomposition (SVD) on the softmax attention score, we further observe that the self attention compresses contribution from both queries and keys in the spanned space of the attention score. Therefore, our proposed easy-attention method directly treats the attention scores as learnable parameters. This approach produces excellent results when reconstructing and predicting the temporal dynamics of chaotic systems exhibiting more robustness and less complexity than the self attention or the widely-used long short-term memory (LSTM) network. Our results show great potential for applications in more complex high-dimensional dynamical systems. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** DS4DH at #SMM4H 2023: Zero-Shot Adverse Drug Events Normalization using  Sentence Transformers and Reciprocal-Rank Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12877  
**Abstract:** This paper outlines the performance evaluation of a system for adverse drug event normalization, developed by the Data Science for Digital Health group for the Social Media Mining for Health Applications 2023 shared task 5. Shared task 5 targeted the normalization of adverse drug event mentions in Twitter to standard concepts from the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities terminology. Our system hinges on a two-stage approach: BERT fine-tuning for entity recognition, followed by zero-shot normalization using sentence transformers and reciprocal-rank fusion. The approach yielded a precision of 44.9%, recall of 40.5%, and an F1-score of 42.6%. It outperformed the median performance in shared task 5 by 10% and demonstrated the highest performance among all participants. These results substantiate the effectiveness of our approach and its potential application for adverse drug event normalization in the realm of social media text mining. 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Inducing Causal Structure for Abstractive Text Summarization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12888  
**Abstract:** The mainstream of data-driven abstractive summarization models tends to explore the correlations rather than the causal relationships. Among such correlations, there can be spurious ones which suffer from the language prior learned from the training corpus and therefore undermine the overall effectiveness of the learned model. To tackle this issue, we introduce a Structural Causal Model (SCM) to induce the underlying causal structure of the summarization data. We assume several latent causal factors and non-causal factors, representing the content and style of the document and summary. Theoretically, we prove that the latent factors in our SCM can be identified by fitting the observed training data under certain conditions. On the basis of this, we propose a Causality Inspired Sequence-to-Sequence model (CI-Seq2Seq) to learn the causal representations that can mimic the causal factors, guiding us to pursue causal information for summary generation. The key idea is to reformulate the Variational Auto-encoder (VAE) to fit the joint distribution of the document and summary variables from the training corpus. Experimental results on two widely used text summarization datasets demonstrate the advantages of our approach. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Language as Reality: A Co-Creative Storytelling Game Experience in 1001  Nights using Generative AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12915  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present "1001 Nights", an AI-native game that allows players lead in-game reality through co-created storytelling with the character driven by large language model. The concept is inspired by Wittgenstein's idea of the limits of one's world being determined by the bounds of their language. Using advanced AI tools like GPT-4 and Stable Diffusion, the second iteration of the game enables the protagonist, Shahrzad, to realize words and stories in her world. The player can steer the conversation with the AI King towards specific keywords, which then become battle equipment in the game. This blend of interactive narrative and text-to-image transformation challenges the conventional border between the game world and reality through a dual perspective. We focus on Shahrzad, who seeks to alter her fate compared to the original folklore, and the player, who collaborates with AI to craft narratives and shape the game world. We explore the technical and design elements of implementing such a game with an objective to enhance the narrative game genre with AI-generated content and to delve into AI-native gameplay possibilities. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** Towards Realistic Unsupervised Fine-tuning with CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12919  
**Abstract:** The emergence of vision-language models (VLMs), such as CLIP, has spurred a significant research effort towards their application for downstream supervised learning tasks. Although some previous studies have explored the unsupervised fine-tuning of CLIP, they often rely on prior knowledge in the form of class names associated with ground truth labels. In this paper, we delve into a realistic unsupervised fine-tuning scenario by assuming that the unlabeled data might contain out-of-distribution samples from unknown classes. Furthermore, we emphasize the importance of simultaneously enhancing out-of-distribution detection capabilities alongside the recognition of instances associated with predefined class labels. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** An Efficient Distributed Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for EV  Charging Network Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12921  
**Abstract:** The increasing trend in adopting electric vehicles (EVs) will significantly impact the residential electricity demand, which results in an increased risk of transformer overload in the distribution grid. To mitigate such risks, there are urgent needs to develop effective EV charging controllers. Currently, the majority of the EV charge controllers are based on a centralized approach for managing individual EVs or a group of EVs. In this paper, we introduce a decentralized Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) charging framework that prioritizes the preservation of privacy for EV owners. We employ the Centralized Training Decentralized Execution-Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (CTDE-DDPG) scheme, which provides valuable information to users during training while maintaining privacy during execution. Our results demonstrate that the CTDE framework improves the performance of the charging network by reducing the network costs. Moreover, we show that the Peak-to-Average Ratio (PAR) of the total demand is reduced, which, in turn, reduces the risk of transformer overload during the peak hours. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Diagnosing Infeasible Optimization Problems Using Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12923  
**Abstract:** Decision-making problems can be represented as mathematical optimization models, finding wide applications in fields such as economics, engineering and manufacturing, transportation, and health care. Optimization models are mathematical abstractions of the problem of making the best decision while satisfying a set of requirements or constraints. One of the primary barriers to deploying these models in practice is the challenge of helping practitioners understand and interpret such models, particularly when they are infeasible, meaning no decision satisfies all the constraints. Existing methods for diagnosing infeasible optimization models often rely on expert systems, necessitating significant background knowledge in optimization. In this paper, we introduce OptiChat, a first-of-its-kind natural language-based system equipped with a chatbot GUI for engaging in interactive conversations about infeasible optimization models. OptiChat can provide natural language descriptions of the optimization model itself, identify potential sources of infeasibility, and offer suggestions to make the model feasible. The implementation of OptiChat is built on GPT-4, which interfaces with an optimization solver to identify the minimal subset of constraints that render the entire optimization problem infeasible, also known as the Irreducible Infeasible Subset (IIS). We utilize few-shot learning, expert chain-of-thought, key-retrieve, and sentiment prompts to enhance OptiChat's reliability. Our experiments demonstrate that OptiChat assists both expert and non-expert users in improving their understanding of the optimization models, enabling them to quickly identify the sources of infeasibility. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** Towards Realistic Zero-Shot Classification via Self Structural Semantic  Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12960  
**Abstract:** Large-scale pre-trained Vision Language Models (VLMs) have proven effective for zero-shot classification. Despite the success, most traditional VLMs-based methods are restricted by the assumption of partial source supervision or ideal vocabularies, which rarely satisfy the open-world scenario. In this paper, we aim at a more challenging setting, Realistic Zero-Shot Classification, which assumes no annotation but instead a broad vocabulary. To address this challenge, we propose the Self Structural Semantic Alignment (S^3A) framework, which extracts the structural semantic information from unlabeled data while simultaneously self-learning. Our S^3A framework adopts a unique Cluster-Vote-Prompt-Realign (CVPR) algorithm, which iteratively groups unlabeled data to derive structural semantics for pseudo-supervision. Our CVPR process includes iterative clustering on images, voting within each cluster to identify initial class candidates from the vocabulary, generating discriminative prompts with large language models to discern confusing candidates, and realigning images and the vocabulary as structural semantic alignment. Finally, we propose to self-learn the CLIP image encoder with both individual and structural semantic alignment through a teacher-student learning strategy. Our comprehensive experiments across various generic and fine-grained benchmarks demonstrate that the S^3A method offers substantial improvements over existing VLMs-based approaches, achieving a more than 15% accuracy improvement over CLIP on average. Our codes, models, and prompts are publicly released at https://github.com/sheng-eatamath/S3A. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** Motion-Guided Masking for Spatiotemporal Representation Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12962  
**Abstract:** Several recent works have directly extended the image masked autoencoder (MAE) with random masking into video domain, achieving promising results. However, unlike images, both spatial and temporal information are important for video understanding. This suggests that the random masking strategy that is inherited from the image MAE is less effective for video MAE. This motivates the design of a novel masking algorithm that can more efficiently make use of video saliency. Specifically, we propose a motion-guided masking algorithm (MGM) which leverages motion vectors to guide the position of each mask over time. Crucially, these motion-based correspondences can be directly obtained from information stored in the compressed format of the video, which makes our method efficient and scalable. On two challenging large-scale video benchmarks (Kinetics-400 and Something-Something V2), we equip video MAE with our MGM and achieve up to +$1.3\%$ improvement compared to previous state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, our MGM achieves equivalent performance to previous video MAE using up to $66\%$ fewer training epochs. Lastly, we show that MGM generalizes better to downstream transfer learning and domain adaptation tasks on the UCF101, HMDB51, and Diving48 datasets, achieving up to +$4.9\%$ improvement compared to baseline methods. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Dense Text-to-Image Generation with Attention Modulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12964  
**Abstract:** Existing text-to-image diffusion models struggle to synthesize realistic images given dense captions, where each text prompt provides a detailed description for a specific image region. To address this, we propose DenseDiffusion, a training-free method that adapts a pre-trained text-to-image model to handle such dense captions while offering control over the scene layout. We first analyze the relationship between generated images' layouts and the pre-trained model's intermediate attention maps. Next, we develop an attention modulation method that guides objects to appear in specific regions according to layout guidance. Without requiring additional fine-tuning or datasets, we improve image generation performance given dense captions regarding both automatic and human evaluation scores. In addition, we achieve similar-quality visual results with models specifically trained with layout conditions. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** Scenimefy: Learning to Craft Anime Scene via Semi-Supervised  Image-to-Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12968  
**Abstract:** Automatic high-quality rendering of anime scenes from complex real-world images is of significant practical value. The challenges of this task lie in the complexity of the scenes, the unique features of anime style, and the lack of high-quality datasets to bridge the domain gap. Despite promising attempts, previous efforts are still incompetent in achieving satisfactory results with consistent semantic preservation, evident stylization, and fine details. In this study, we propose Scenimefy, a novel semi-supervised image-to-image translation framework that addresses these challenges. Our approach guides the learning with structure-consistent pseudo paired data, simplifying the pure unsupervised setting. The pseudo data are derived uniquely from a semantic-constrained StyleGAN leveraging rich model priors like CLIP. We further apply segmentation-guided data selection to obtain high-quality pseudo supervision. A patch-wise contrastive style loss is introduced to improve stylization and fine details. Besides, we contribute a high-resolution anime scene dataset to facilitate future research. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method over state-of-the-art baselines in terms of both perceptual quality and quantitative performance. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Improving Generative Model-based Unfolding with Schrdinger Bridges  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12351  
**Abstract:** Machine learning-based unfolding has enabled unbinned and high-dimensional differential cross section measurements. Two main approaches have emerged in this research area: one based on discriminative models and one based on generative models. The main advantage of discriminative models is that they learn a small correction to a starting simulation while generative models scale better to regions of phase space with little data. We propose to use Schroedinger Bridges and diffusion models to create SBUnfold, an unfolding approach that combines the strengths of both discriminative and generative models. The key feature of SBUnfold is that its generative model maps one set of events into another without having to go through a known probability density as is the case for normalizing flows and standard diffusion models. We show that SBUnfold achieves excellent performance compared to state of the art methods on a synthetic Z+jets dataset. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Renormalizing Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12355  
**Abstract:** We explain how to use diffusion models to learn inverse renormalization group flows of statistical and quantum field theories. Diffusion models are a class of machine learning models which have been used to generate samples from complex distributions, such as the distribution of natural images, by learning the inverse process to a diffusion process which adds noise to the data until the distribution of the data is pure noise. Nonperturbative renormalization group schemes can naturally be written as diffusion processes in the space of fields. We combine these observations in a concrete framework for building ML-based models for studying field theories, in which the models learn the inverse process to an explicitly-specified renormalization group scheme. We detail how these models define a class of adaptive bridge (or parallel tempering) samplers for lattice field theory. Because renormalization group schemes have a physical meaning, we provide explicit prescriptions for how to compare results derived from models associated to several different renormalization group schemes of interest. We also explain how to use diffusion models in a variational method to find ground states of quantum systems. We apply some of our methods to numerically find RG flows of interacting statistical field theories. From the perspective of machine learning, our work provides an interpretation of multiscale diffusion models, and gives physically-inspired suggestions for diffusion models which should have novel properties. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** TAI-GAN: Temporally and Anatomically Informed GAN for early-to-late  frame conversion in dynamic cardiac PET motion correction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12443  
**Abstract:** The rapid tracer kinetics of rubidium-82 ($^{82}$Rb) and high variation of cross-frame distribution in dynamic cardiac positron emission tomography (PET) raise significant challenges for inter-frame motion correction, particularly for the early frames where conventional intensity-based image registration techniques are not applicable. Alternatively, a promising approach utilizes generative methods to handle the tracer distribution changes to assist existing registration methods. To improve frame-wise registration and parametric quantification, we propose a Temporally and Anatomically Informed Generative Adversarial Network (TAI-GAN) to transform the early frames into the late reference frame using an all-to-one mapping. Specifically, a feature-wise linear modulation layer encodes channel-wise parameters generated from temporal tracer kinetics information, and rough cardiac segmentations with local shifts serve as the anatomical information. We validated our proposed method on a clinical $^{82}$Rb PET dataset and found that our TAI-GAN can produce converted early frames with high image quality, comparable to the real reference frames. After TAI-GAN conversion, motion estimation accuracy and clinical myocardial blood flow (MBF) quantification were improved compared to using the original frames. Our code is published at https://github.com/gxq1998/TAI-GAN. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** InverseSR: 3D Brain MRI Super-Resolution Using a Latent Diffusion Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12465  
**Abstract:** High-resolution (HR) MRI scans obtained from research-grade medical centers provide precise information about imaged tissues. However, routine clinical MRI scans are typically in low-resolution (LR) and vary greatly in contrast and spatial resolution due to the adjustments of the scanning parameters to the local needs of the medical center. End-to-end deep learning methods for MRI super-resolution (SR) have been proposed, but they require re-training each time there is a shift in the input distribution. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach that leverages a state-of-the-art 3D brain generative model, the latent diffusion model (LDM) trained on UK BioBank, to increase the resolution of clinical MRI scans. The LDM acts as a generative prior, which has the ability to capture the prior distribution of 3D T1-weighted brain MRI. Based on the architecture of the brain LDM, we find that different methods are suitable for different settings of MRI SR, and thus propose two novel strategies: 1) for SR with more sparsity, we invert through both the decoder of the LDM and also through a deterministic Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models (DDIM), an approach we will call InverseSR(LDM); 2) for SR with less sparsity, we invert only through the LDM decoder, an approach we will call InverseSR(Decoder). These two approaches search different latent spaces in the LDM model to find the optimal latent code to map the given LR MRI into HR. The training process of the generative model is independent of the MRI under-sampling process, ensuring the generalization of our method to many MRI SR problems with different input measurements. We validate our method on over 100 brain T1w MRIs from the IXI dataset. Our method can demonstrate that powerful priors given by LDM can be used for MRI reconstruction. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Learned Local Attention Maps for Synthesising Vessel Segmentations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.12861  
**Abstract:** Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is an imaging modality for visualising blood vessels. It is useful for several diagnostic applications and for assessing the risk of adverse events such as haemorrhagic stroke (resulting from the rupture of aneurysms in blood vessels). However, MRAs are not acquired routinely, hence, an approach to synthesise blood vessel segmentations from more routinely acquired MR contrasts such as T1 and T2, would be useful. We present an encoder-decoder model for synthesising segmentations of the main cerebral arteries in the circle of Willis (CoW) from only T2 MRI. We propose a two-phase multi-objective learning approach, which captures both global and local features. It uses learned local attention maps generated by dilating the segmentation labels, which forces the network to only extract information from the T2 MRI relevant to synthesising the CoW. Our synthetic vessel segmentations generated from only T2 MRI achieved a mean Dice score of $0.79 \pm 0.03$ in testing, compared to state-of-the-art segmentation networks such as transformer U-Net ($0.71 \pm 0.04$) and nnU-net($0.68 \pm 0.05$), while using only a fraction of the parameters. The main qualitative difference between our synthetic vessel segmentations and the comparative models was in the sharper resolution of the CoW vessel segments, especially in the posterior circulation. 

