**ID:** 1  
**Title:** VeriGen: A Large Language Model for Verilog Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00708  
**Abstract:** In this study, we explore the capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to automate hardware design by generating high-quality Verilog code, a common language for designing and modeling digital systems. We fine-tune pre-existing LLMs on Verilog datasets compiled from GitHub and Verilog textbooks. We evaluate the functional correctness of the generated Verilog code using a specially designed test suite, featuring a custom problem set and testing benches. Here, our fine-tuned open-source CodeGen-16B model outperforms the commercial state-of-the-art GPT-3.5-turbo model with a 1.1% overall increase. Upon testing with a more diverse and complex problem set, we find that the fine-tuned model shows competitive performance against state-of-the-art gpt-3.5-turbo, excelling in certain scenarios. Notably, it demonstrates a 41% improvement in generating syntactically correct Verilog code across various problem categories compared to its pre-trained counterpart, highlighting the potential of smaller, in-house LLMs in hardware design automation. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** A Pre-trained Data Deduplication Model based on Active Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00721  
**Abstract:** In the era of big data, the issue of data quality has become increasingly prominent. One of the main challenges is the problem of duplicate data, which can arise from repeated entry or the merging of multiple data sources. These "dirty data" problems can significantly limit the effective application of big data. To address the issue of data deduplication, we propose a pre-trained deduplication model based on active learning, which is the first work that utilizes active learning to address the problem of deduplication at the semantic level. The model is built on a pre-trained Transformer and fine-tuned to solve the deduplication problem as a sequence to classification task, which firstly integrate the transformer with active learning into an end-to-end architecture to select the most valuable data for deduplication model training, and also firstly employ the R-Drop method to perform data augmentation on each round of labeled data, which can reduce the cost of manual labeling and improve the model's performance. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed model outperforms previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) for deduplicated data identification, achieving up to a 28% improvement in Recall score on benchmark datasets. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** ELFNet: Evidential Local-global Fusion for Stereo Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00728  
**Abstract:** Although existing stereo matching models have achieved continuous improvement, they often face issues related to trustworthiness due to the absence of uncertainty estimation. Additionally, effectively leveraging multi-scale and multi-view knowledge of stereo pairs remains unexplored. In this paper, we introduce the \textbf{E}vidential \textbf{L}ocal-global \textbf{F}usion (ELF) framework for stereo matching, which endows both uncertainty estimation and confidence-aware fusion with trustworthy heads. Instead of predicting the disparity map alone, our model estimates an evidential-based disparity considering both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainties. With the normal inverse-Gamma distribution as a bridge, the proposed framework realizes intra evidential fusion of multi-level predictions and inter evidential fusion between cost-volume-based and transformer-based stereo matching. Extensive experimental results show that the proposed framework exploits multi-view information effectively and achieves state-of-the-art overall performance both on accuracy and cross-domain generalization. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** The Bias Amplification Paradox in Text-to-Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00755  
**Abstract:** Bias amplification is a phenomenon in which models increase imbalances present in the training data. In this paper, we study bias amplification in the text-to-image domain using Stable Diffusion by comparing gender ratios in training vs. generated images. We find that the model appears to amplify gender-occupation biases found in the training data (LAION). However, we discover that amplification can largely be attributed to discrepancies between training captions and model prompts. For example, an inherent difference is that captions from the training data often contain explicit gender information while the prompts we use do not, which leads to a distribution shift and consequently impacts bias measures. Once we account for various distributional differences between texts used for training and generation, we observe that amplification decreases considerably. Our findings illustrate the challenges of comparing biases in models and the data they are trained on, and highlight confounding factors that contribute to bias amplification. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Self-Supervised Contrastive BERT Fine-tuning for Fusion-based  Reviewed-Item Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00762  
**Abstract:** As natural language interfaces enable users to express increasingly complex natural language queries, there is a parallel explosion of user review content that can allow users to better find items such as restaurants, books, or movies that match these expressive queries. While Neural Information Retrieval (IR) methods have provided state-of-the-art results for matching queries to documents, they have not been extended to the task of Reviewed-Item Retrieval (RIR), where query-review scores must be aggregated (or fused) into item-level scores for ranking. In the absence of labeled RIR datasets, we extend Neural IR methodology to RIR by leveraging self-supervised methods for contrastive learning of BERT embeddings for both queries and reviews. Specifically, contrastive learning requires a choice of positive and negative samples, where the unique two-level structure of our item-review data combined with meta-data affords us a rich structure for the selection of these samples. For contrastive learning in a Late Fusion scenario, we investigate the use of positive review samples from the same item and/or with the same rating, selection of hard positive samples by choosing the least similar reviews from the same anchor item, and selection of hard negative samples by choosing the most similar reviews from different items. We also explore anchor sub-sampling and augmenting with meta-data. For a more end-to-end Early Fusion approach, we introduce contrastive item embedding learning to fuse reviews into single item embeddings. Experimental results show that Late Fusion contrastive learning for Neural RIR outperforms all other contrastive IR configurations, Neural IR, and sparse retrieval baselines, thus demonstrating the power of exploiting the two-level structure in Neural RIR approaches as well as the importance of preserving the nuance of individual review content via Late Fusion methods. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** High-Fidelity Eye Animatable Neural Radiance Fields for Human Face  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00773  
**Abstract:** Face rendering using neural radiance fields (NeRF) is a rapidly developing research area in computer vision. While recent methods primarily focus on controlling facial attributes such as identity and expression, they often overlook the crucial aspect of modeling eyeball rotation, which holds importance for various downstream tasks. In this paper, we aim to learn a face NeRF model that is sensitive to eye movements from multi-view images. We address two key challenges in eye-aware face NeRF learning: how to effectively capture eyeball rotation for training and how to construct a manifold for representing eyeball rotation. To accomplish this, we first fit FLAME, a well-established parametric face model, to the multi-view images considering multi-view consistency. Subsequently, we introduce a new Dynamic Eye-aware NeRF (DeNeRF). DeNeRF transforms 3D points from different views into a canonical space to learn a unified face NeRF model. We design an eye deformation field for the transformation, including rigid transformation, e.g., eyeball rotation, and non-rigid transformation. Through experiments conducted on the ETH-XGaze dataset, we demonstrate that our model is capable of generating high-fidelity images with accurate eyeball rotation and non-rigid periocular deformation, even under novel viewing angles. Furthermore, we show that utilizing the rendered images can effectively enhance gaze estimation performance. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** ImageBrush: Learning Visual In-Context Instructions for Exemplar-Based  Image Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00906  
**Abstract:** While language-guided image manipulation has made remarkable progress, the challenge of how to instruct the manipulation process faithfully reflecting human intentions persists. An accurate and comprehensive description of a manipulation task using natural language is laborious and sometimes even impossible, primarily due to the inherent uncertainty and ambiguity present in linguistic expressions. Is it feasible to accomplish image manipulation without resorting to external cross-modal language information? If this possibility exists, the inherent modality gap would be effortlessly eliminated. In this paper, we propose a novel manipulation methodology, dubbed ImageBrush, that learns visual instructions for more accurate image editing. Our key idea is to employ a pair of transformation images as visual instructions, which not only precisely captures human intention but also facilitates accessibility in real-world scenarios. Capturing visual instructions is particularly challenging because it involves extracting the underlying intentions solely from visual demonstrations and then applying this operation to a new image. To address this challenge, we formulate visual instruction learning as a diffusion-based inpainting problem, where the contextual information is fully exploited through an iterative process of generation. A visual prompting encoder is carefully devised to enhance the model's capacity in uncovering human intent behind the visual instructions. Extensive experiments show that our method generates engaging manipulation results conforming to the transformations entailed in demonstrations. Moreover, our model exhibits robust generalization capabilities on various downstream tasks such as pose transfer, image translation and video inpainting. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Continual Domain Adaptation on Aerial Images under Gradually Degrading  Weather  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00924  
**Abstract:** Domain adaptation (DA) strives to mitigate the domain gap between the source domain where a model is trained, and the target domain where the model is deployed. When a deep learning model is deployed on an aerial platform, it may face gradually degrading weather conditions during operation, leading to widening domain gaps between the training data and the encountered evaluation data. We synthesize two such gradually worsening weather conditions on real images from two existing aerial imagery datasets, generating a total of four benchmark datasets. Under the continual, or test-time adaptation setting, we evaluate three DA models on our datasets: a baseline standard DA model and two continual DA models. In such setting, the models can access only one small portion, or one batch of the target data at a time, and adaptation takes place continually, and over only one epoch of the data. The combination of the constraints of continual adaptation, and gradually deteriorating weather conditions provide the practical DA scenario for aerial deployment. Among the evaluated models, we consider both convolutional and transformer architectures for comparison. We discover stability issues during adaptation for existing buffer-fed continual DA methods, and offer gradient normalization as a simple solution to curb training instability. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Feature-aware conditional GAN for category text generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00939  
**Abstract:** Category text generation receives considerable attentions since it is beneficial for various natural language processing tasks. Recently, the generative adversarial network (GAN) has attained promising performance in text generation, attributed to its adversarial training process. However, there are several issues in text GANs, including discreteness, training instability, mode collapse, lack of diversity and controllability etc. To address these issues, this paper proposes a novel GAN framework, the feature-aware conditional GAN (FA-GAN), for controllable category text generation. In FA-GAN, the generator has a sequence-to-sequence structure for improving sentence diversity, which consists of three encoders including a special feature-aware encoder and a category-aware encoder, and one relational-memory-core-based decoder with the Gumbel SoftMax activation function. The discriminator has an additional category classification head. To generate sentences with specified categories, the multi-class classification loss is supplemented in the adversarial training. Comprehensive experiments have been conducted, and the results show that FA-GAN consistently outperforms 10 state-of-the-art text generation approaches on 6 text classification datasets. The case study demonstrates that the synthetic sentences generated by FA-GAN can match the required categories and are aware of the features of conditioned sentences, with good readability, fluency, and text authenticity. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** From Sparse to Soft Mixtures of Experts  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00951  
**Abstract:** Sparse mixture of expert architectures (MoEs) scale model capacity without large increases in training or inference costs. Despite their success, MoEs suffer from a number of issues: training instability, token dropping, inability to scale the number of experts, or ineffective finetuning. In this work, we proposeSoft MoE, a fully-differentiable sparse Transformer that addresses these challenges, while maintaining the benefits of MoEs. Soft MoE performs an implicit soft assignment by passing different weighted combinations of all input tokens to each expert. As in other MoE works, experts in Soft MoE only process a subset of the (combined) tokens, enabling larger model capacity at lower inference cost. In the context of visual recognition, Soft MoE greatly outperforms standard Transformers (ViTs) and popular MoE variants (Tokens Choice and Experts Choice). For example, Soft MoE-Base/16 requires 10.5x lower inference cost (5.7x lower wall-clock time) than ViT-Huge/14 while matching its performance after similar training. Soft MoE also scales well: Soft MoE Huge/14 with 128 experts in 16 MoE layers has over 40x more parameters than ViT Huge/14, while inference time cost grows by only 2%, and it performs substantially better. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** ForensicsForest Family: A Series of Multi-scale Hierarchical Cascade  Forests for Detecting GAN-generated Faces  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00964  
**Abstract:** The prominent progress in generative models has significantly improved the reality of generated faces, bringing serious concerns to society. Since recent GAN-generated faces are in high realism, the forgery traces have become more imperceptible, increasing the forensics challenge. To combat GAN-generated faces, many countermeasures based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have been spawned due to their strong learning ability. In this paper, we rethink this problem and explore a new approach based on forest models instead of CNNs. Specifically, we describe a simple and effective forest-based method set called {\em ForensicsForest Family} to detect GAN-generate faces. The proposed ForensicsForest family is composed of three variants, which are {\em ForensicsForest}, {\em Hybrid ForensicsForest} and {\em Divide-and-Conquer ForensicsForest} respectively. ForenscisForest is a newly proposed Multi-scale Hierarchical Cascade Forest, which takes semantic, frequency and biology features as input, hierarchically cascades different levels of features for authenticity prediction, and then employs a multi-scale ensemble scheme that can comprehensively consider different levels of information to improve the performance further. Based on ForensicsForest, we develop Hybrid ForensicsForest, an extended version that integrates the CNN layers into models, to further refine the effectiveness of augmented features. Moreover, to reduce the memory cost in training, we propose Divide-and-Conquer ForensicsForest, which can construct a forest model using only a portion of training samplings. In the training stage, we train several candidate forest models using the subsets of training samples. Then a ForensicsForest is assembled by picking the suitable components from these candidate forest models... 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Exploiting Synthetic Data for Data Imbalance Problems: Baselines from a  Data Perspective  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.00994  
**Abstract:** We live in a vast ocean of data, and deep neural networks are no exception to this. However, this data exhibits an inherent phenomenon of imbalance. This imbalance poses a risk of deep neural networks producing biased predictions, leading to potentially severe ethical and social consequences. To address these challenges, we believe that the use of generative models is a promising approach for comprehending tasks, given the remarkable advancements demonstrated by recent diffusion models in generating high-quality images. In this work, we propose a simple yet effective baseline, SYNAuG, that utilizes synthetic data as a preliminary step before employing task-specific algorithms to address data imbalance problems. This straightforward approach yields impressive performance on datasets such as CIFAR100-LT, ImageNet100-LT, UTKFace, and Waterbird, surpassing the performance of existing task-specific methods. While we do not claim that our approach serves as a complete solution to the problem of data imbalance, we argue that supplementing the existing data with synthetic data proves to be an effective and crucial preliminary step in addressing data imbalance concerns. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** FusionAD: Multi-modality Fusion for Prediction and Planning Tasks of  Autonomous Driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01006  
**Abstract:** Building a multi-modality multi-task neural network toward accurate and robust performance is a de-facto standard in perception task of autonomous driving. However, leveraging such data from multiple sensors to jointly optimize the prediction and planning tasks remains largely unexplored. In this paper, we present FusionAD, to the best of our knowledge, the first unified framework that fuse the information from two most critical sensors, camera and LiDAR, goes beyond perception task. Concretely, we first build a transformer based multi-modality fusion network to effectively produce fusion based features. In constrast to camera-based end-to-end method UniAD, we then establish a fusion aided modality-aware prediction and status-aware planning modules, dubbed FMSPnP that take advantages of multi-modality features. We conduct extensive experiments on commonly used benchmark nuScenes dataset, our FusionAD achieves state-of-the-art performance and surpassing baselines on average 15% on perception tasks like detection and tracking, 10% on occupancy prediction accuracy, reducing prediction error from 0.708 to 0.389 in ADE score and reduces the collision rate from 0.31% to only 0.12%. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Leveraging Few-Shot Data Augmentation and Waterfall Prompting for  Response Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01080  
**Abstract:** This paper discusses our approaches for task-oriented conversational modelling using subjective knowledge, with a particular emphasis on response generation. Our methodology was shaped by an extensive data analysis that evaluated key factors such as response length, sentiment, and dialogue acts present in the provided dataset. We used few-shot learning to augment the data with newly generated subjective knowledge items and present three approaches for DSTC11: (1) task-specific model exploration, (2) incorporation of the most frequent question into all generated responses, and (3) a waterfall prompting technique using a combination of both GPT-3 and ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Homography Estimation in Complex Topological Scenes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01086  
**Abstract:** Surveillance videos and images are used for a broad set of applications, ranging from traffic analysis to crime detection. Extrinsic camera calibration data is important for most analysis applications. However, security cameras are susceptible to environmental conditions and small camera movements, resulting in a need for an automated re-calibration method that can account for these varying conditions. In this paper, we present an automated camera-calibration process leveraging a dictionary-based approach that does not require prior knowledge on any camera settings. The method consists of a custom implementation of a Spatial Transformer Network (STN) and a novel topological loss function. Experiments reveal that the proposed method improves the IoU metric by up to 12% w.r.t. a state-of-the-art model across five synthetic datasets and the World Cup 2014 dataset. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Towards Better Query Classification with Multi-Expert Knowledge  Condensation in JD Ads Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01098  
**Abstract:** Search query classification, as an effective way to understand user intents, is of great importance in real-world online ads systems. To ensure a lower latency, a shallow model (e.g. FastText) is widely used for efficient online inference. However, the representation ability of the FastText model is insufficient, resulting in poor classification performance, especially on some low-frequency queries and tailed categories. Using a deeper and more complex model (e.g. BERT) is an effective solution, but it will cause a higher online inference latency and more expensive computing costs. Thus, how to juggle both inference efficiency and classification performance is obviously of great practical importance. To overcome this challenge, in this paper, we propose knowledge condensation (KC), a simple yet effective knowledge distillation framework to boost the classification performance of the online FastText model under strict low latency constraints. Specifically, we propose to train an offline BERT model to retrieve more potentially relevant data. Benefiting from its powerful semantic representation, more relevant labels not exposed in the historical data will be added into the training set for better FastText model training. Moreover, a novel distribution-diverse multi-expert learning strategy is proposed to further improve the mining ability of relevant data. By training multiple BERT models from different data distributions, it can respectively perform better at high, middle, and low-frequency search queries. The model ensemble from multi-distribution makes its retrieval ability more powerful. We have deployed two versions of this framework in JD search, and both offline experiments and online A/B testing from multiple datasets have validated the effectiveness of the proposed approach. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** DiffusePast: Diffusion-based Generative Replay for Class Incremental  Semantic Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01127  
**Abstract:** The Class Incremental Semantic Segmentation (CISS) extends the traditional segmentation task by incrementally learning newly added classes. Previous work has introduced generative replay, which involves replaying old class samples generated from a pre-trained GAN, to address the issues of catastrophic forgetting and privacy concerns. However, the generated images lack semantic precision and exhibit out-of-distribution characteristics, resulting in inaccurate masks that further degrade the segmentation performance. To tackle these challenges, we propose DiffusePast, a novel framework featuring a diffusion-based generative replay module that generates semantically accurate images with more reliable masks guided by different instructions (e.g., text prompts or edge maps). Specifically, DiffusePast introduces a dual-generator paradigm, which focuses on generating old class images that align with the distribution of downstream datasets while preserving the structure and layout of the original images, enabling more precise masks. To adapt to the novel visual concepts of newly added classes continuously, we incorporate class-wise token embedding when updating the dual-generator. Moreover, we assign adequate pseudo-labels of old classes to the background pixels in the new step images, further mitigating the forgetting of previously learned knowledge. Through comprehensive experiments, our method demonstrates competitive performance across mainstream benchmarks, striking a better balance between the performance of old and novel classes. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** UCDFormer: Unsupervised Change Detection Using a Transformer-driven  Image Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01146  
**Abstract:** Change detection (CD) by comparing two bi-temporal images is a crucial task in remote sensing. With the advantages of requiring no cumbersome labeled change information, unsupervised CD has attracted extensive attention in the community. However, existing unsupervised CD approaches rarely consider the seasonal and style differences incurred by the illumination and atmospheric conditions in multi-temporal images. To this end, we propose a change detection with domain shift setting for remote sensing images. Furthermore, we present a novel unsupervised CD method using a light-weight transformer, called UCDFormer. Specifically, a transformer-driven image translation composed of a light-weight transformer and a domain-specific affinity weight is first proposed to mitigate domain shift between two images with real-time efficiency. After image translation, we can generate the difference map between the translated before-event image and the original after-event image. Then, a novel reliable pixel extraction module is proposed to select significantly changed/unchanged pixel positions by fusing the pseudo change maps of fuzzy c-means clustering and adaptive threshold. Finally, a binary change map is obtained based on these selected pixel pairs and a binary classifier. Experimental results on different unsupervised CD tasks with seasonal and style changes demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed UCDFormer. For example, compared with several other related methods, UCDFormer improves performance on the Kappa coefficient by more than 12\%. In addition, UCDFormer achieves excellent performance for earthquake-induced landslide detection when considering large-scale applications. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/zhu-xlab/UCDFormer} 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Contrast-augmented Diffusion Model with Fine-grained Sequence Alignment  for Markup-to-Image Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01147  
**Abstract:** The recently rising markup-to-image generation poses greater challenges as compared to natural image generation, due to its low tolerance for errors as well as the complex sequence and context correlations between markup and rendered image. This paper proposes a novel model named "Contrast-augmented Diffusion Model with Fine-grained Sequence Alignment" (FSA-CDM), which introduces contrastive positive/negative samples into the diffusion model to boost performance for markup-to-image generation. Technically, we design a fine-grained cross-modal alignment module to well explore the sequence similarity between the two modalities for learning robust feature representations. To improve the generalization ability, we propose a contrast-augmented diffusion model to explicitly explore positive and negative samples by maximizing a novel contrastive variational objective, which is mathematically inferred to provide a tighter bound for the model's optimization. Moreover, the context-aware cross attention module is developed to capture the contextual information within markup language during the denoising process, yielding better noise prediction results. Extensive experiments are conducted on four benchmark datasets from different domains, and the experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed components in FSA-CDM, significantly exceeding state-of-the-art performance by about 2%-12% DTW improvements. The code will be released at https://github.com/zgj77/FSACDM. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** TeachCLIP: Multi-Grained Teaching for Efficient Text-to-Video Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01217  
**Abstract:** For text-to-video retrieval (T2VR), which aims to retrieve unlabeled videos by ad-hoc textual queries, CLIP-based methods are dominating. Compared to CLIP4Clip which is efficient and compact, the state-of-the-art models tend to compute video-text similarity by fine-grained cross-modal feature interaction and matching, putting their scalability for large-scale T2VR into doubt. For efficient T2VR, we propose TeachCLIP with multi-grained teaching to let a CLIP4Clip based student network learn from more advanced yet computationally heavy models such as X-CLIP, TS2-Net and X-Pool . To improve the student's learning capability, we add an Attentional frame-Feature Aggregation (AFA) block, which by design adds no extra storage/computation overhead at the retrieval stage. While attentive weights produced by AFA are commonly used for combining frame-level features, we propose a novel use of the weights to let them imitate frame-text relevance estimated by the teacher network. As such, AFA provides a fine-grained learning (teaching) channel for the student (teacher). Extensive experiments on multiple public datasets justify the viability of the proposed method. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Grounded Image Text Matching with Mismatched Relation Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01236  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces Grounded Image Text Matching with Mismatched Relation (GITM-MR), a novel visual-linguistic joint task that evaluates the relation understanding capabilities of transformer-based pre-trained models. GITM-MR requires a model to first determine if an expression describes an image, then localize referred objects or ground the mismatched parts of the text. We provide a benchmark for evaluating pre-trained models on this task, with a focus on the challenging settings of limited data and out-of-distribution sentence lengths. Our evaluation demonstrates that pre-trained models lack data efficiency and length generalization ability. To address this, we propose the Relation-sensitive Correspondence Reasoning Network (RCRN), which incorporates relation-aware reasoning via bi-directional message propagation guided by language structure. RCRN can be interpreted as a modular program and delivers strong performance in both length generalization and data efficiency. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** LSF-IDM: Lightweight Deep Learning Models for Automotive Intrusion  Detection Model Based on Semantic Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01237  
**Abstract:** Autonomous vehicles (AVs) are more vulnerable to network attacks due to the high connectivity and diverse communication modes between vehicles and external networks. Deep learning-based Intrusion detection, an effective method for detecting network attacks, can provide functional safety as well as a real-time communication guarantee for vehicles, thereby being widely used for AVs. Existing works well for cyber-attacks such as simple-mode but become a higher false alarm with a resource-limited environment required when the attack is concealed within a contextual feature. In this paper, we present a lightweight intrusion detection model based on semantic fusion, named LSF-IDM. Our motivation is based on the observation that, when injected the malicious packets to the in-vehicle networks (IVNs), the packet log presents a strict order of context feature because of the periodicity and broadcast nature of the CAN bus. Therefore, this model first captures the context as the semantic feature of messages by the BERT language framework. Thereafter, the lightweight model (e.g., BiLSTM) learns the fused feature from an input packet's classification and its output distribution in BERT based on knowledge distillation. Experiment results demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods in defending against several representative attacks from IVNs. We also perform the difference analysis of the proposed method with lightweight models and Bert to attain a deeper understanding of how the model balance detection performance and model complexity. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Incorporating Season and Solar Specificity into Renderings made by a  NeRF Architecture using Satellite Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01262  
**Abstract:** As a result of Shadow NeRF and Sat-NeRF, it is possible to take the solar angle into account in a NeRF-based framework for rendering a scene from a novel viewpoint using satellite images for training. Our work extends those contributions and shows how one can make the renderings season-specific. Our main challenge was creating a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) that could render seasonal features independently of viewing angle and solar angle while still being able to render shadows. We teach our network to render seasonal features by introducing one more input variable -- time of the year. However, the small training datasets typical of satellite imagery can introduce ambiguities in cases where shadows are present in the same location for every image of a particular season. We add additional terms to the loss function to discourage the network from using seasonal features for accounting for shadows. We show the performance of our network on eight Areas of Interest containing images captured by the Maxar WorldView-3 satellite. This evaluation includes tests measuring the ability of our framework to accurately render novel views, generate height maps, predict shadows, and specify seasonal features independently from shadows. Our ablation studies justify the choices made for network design parameters. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Exploring the psychology of GPT-4's Moral and Legal Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01264  
**Abstract:** Large language models have been used as the foundation of highly sophisticated artificial intelligences, capable of delivering human-like responses to probes about legal and moral issues. However, these models are unreliable guides to their own inner workings, and even the engineering teams behind their creation are unable to explain exactly how they came to develop all of the capabilities they currently have. The emerging field of machine psychology seeks to gain insight into the processes and concepts that these models possess. In this paper, we employ the methods of psychology to probe into GPT-4's moral and legal reasoning. More specifically, we investigate the similarities and differences between GPT-4 and humans when it comes to intentionality ascriptions, judgments about causation, the morality of deception, moral foundations, the impact of moral luck on legal judgments, the concept of consent, and rule violation judgments. We find high correlations between human and AI responses, but also several significant systematic differences between them. We conclude with a discussion of the philosophical implications of our findings. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Fighting Fire with Fire: Can ChatGPT Detect AI-generated Text?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01284  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT are increasingly being used for various use cases, including text content generation at scale. Although detection methods for such AI-generated text exist already, we investigate ChatGPT's performance as a detector on such AI-generated text, inspired by works that use ChatGPT as a data labeler or annotator. We evaluate the zero-shot performance of ChatGPT in the task of human-written vs. AI-generated text detection, and perform experiments on publicly available datasets. We empirically investigate if ChatGPT is symmetrically effective in detecting AI-generated or human-written text. Our findings provide insight on how ChatGPT and similar LLMs may be leveraged in automated detection pipelines by simply focusing on solving a specific aspect of the problem and deriving the rest from that solution. All code and data is available at \url{https://github.com/AmritaBh/ChatGPT-as-Detector}. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Flows: Building Blocks of Reasoning and Collaborating AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01285  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) have produced highly capable and controllable systems. This creates unprecedented opportunities for structured reasoning as well as collaboration among multiple AI systems and humans. To fully realize this potential, it is essential to develop a principled way of designing and studying such structured interactions. For this purpose, we introduce the conceptual framework of Flows: a systematic approach to modeling complex interactions. Flows are self-contained building blocks of computation, with an isolated state, communicating through a standardized message-based interface. This modular design allows Flows to be recursively composed into arbitrarily nested interactions, with a substantial reduction of complexity. Crucially, any interaction can be implemented using this framework, including prior work on AI--AI and human--AI interactions, prompt engineering schemes, and tool augmentation. We demonstrate the potential of Flows on the task of competitive coding, a challenging task on which even GPT-4 struggles. Our results suggest that structured reasoning and collaboration substantially improve generalization, with AI-only Flows adding +$21$ and human--AI Flows adding +$54$ absolute points in terms of solve rate. To support rapid and rigorous research, we introduce the aiFlows library. The library comes with a repository of Flows that can be easily used, extended, and composed into novel, more complex Flows. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Revisiting DETR Pre-training for Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01300  
**Abstract:** Motivated by that DETR-based approaches have established new records on COCO detection and segmentation benchmarks, many recent endeavors show increasing interest in how to further improve DETR-based approaches by pre-training the Transformer in a self-supervised manner while keeping the backbone frozen. Some studies already claimed significant improvements in accuracy. In this paper, we take a closer look at their experimental methodology and check if their approaches are still effective on the very recent state-of-the-art such as $\mathcal{H}$-Deformable-DETR. We conduct thorough experiments on COCO object detection tasks to study the influence of the choice of pre-training datasets, localization, and classification target generation schemes. Unfortunately, we find the previous representative self-supervised approach such as DETReg, fails to boost the performance of the strong DETR-based approaches on full data regimes. We further analyze the reasons and find that simply combining a more accurate box predictor and Objects$365$ benchmark can significantly improve the results in follow-up experiments. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by achieving strong object detection results of AP=$59.3\%$ on COCO val set, which surpasses $\mathcal{H}$-Deformable-DETR + Swin-L by +$1.4\%$. Last, we generate a series of synthetic pre-training datasets by combining the very recent image-to-text captioning models (LLaVA) and text-to-image generative models (SDXL). Notably, pre-training on these synthetic datasets leads to notable improvements in object detection performance. Looking ahead, we anticipate substantial advantages through the future expansion of the synthetic pre-training dataset. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Masked and Swapped Sequence Modeling for Next Novel Basket  Recommendation in Grocery Shopping  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01308  
**Abstract:** Next basket recommendation (NBR) is the task of predicting the next set of items based on a sequence of already purchased baskets. It is a recommendation task that has been widely studied, especially in the context of grocery shopping. In next basket recommendation (NBR), it is useful to distinguish between repeat items, i.e., items that a user has consumed before, and explore items, i.e., items that a user has not consumed before. Most NBR work either ignores this distinction or focuses on repeat items. We formulate the next novel basket recommendation (NNBR) task, i.e., the task of recommending a basket that only consists of novel items, which is valuable for both real-world application and NBR evaluation. We evaluate how existing NBR methods perform on the NNBR task and find that, so far, limited progress has been made w.r.t. the NNBR task. To address the NNBR task, we propose a simple bi-directional transformer basket recommendation model (BTBR), which is focused on directly modeling item-to-item correlations within and across baskets instead of learning complex basket representations. To properly train BTBR, we propose and investigate several masking strategies and training objectives: (i) item-level random masking, (ii) item-level select masking, (iii) basket-level all masking, (iv) basket-level explore masking, and (v) joint masking. In addition, an item-basket swapping strategy is proposed to enrich the item interactions within the same baskets. We conduct extensive experiments on three open datasets with various characteristics. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of BTBR and our masking and swapping strategies for the NNBR task. BTBR with a properly selected masking and swapping strategy can substantially improve NNBR performance. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** More Context, Less Distraction: Visual Classification by Inferring and  Conditioning on Contextual Attributes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01313  
**Abstract:** CLIP, as a foundational vision language model, is widely used in zero-shot image classification due to its ability to understand various visual concepts and natural language descriptions. However, how to fully leverage CLIP's unprecedented human-like understanding capabilities to achieve better zero-shot classification is still an open question. This paper draws inspiration from the human visual perception process: a modern neuroscience view suggests that in classifying an object, humans first infer its class-independent attributes (e.g., background and orientation) which help separate the foreground object from the background, and then make decisions based on this information. Inspired by this, we observe that providing CLIP with contextual attributes improves zero-shot classification and mitigates reliance on spurious features. We also observe that CLIP itself can reasonably infer the attributes from an image. With these observations, we propose a training-free, two-step zero-shot classification method named PerceptionCLIP. Given an image, it first infers contextual attributes (e.g., background) and then performs object classification conditioning on them. Our experiments show that PerceptionCLIP achieves better generalization, group robustness, and better interpretability. For example, PerceptionCLIP with ViT-L/14 improves the worst group accuracy by 16.5% on the Waterbirds dataset and by 3.5% on CelebA. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Patched Denoising Diffusion Models For High-Resolution Image Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01316  
**Abstract:** We propose an effective denoising diffusion model for generating high-resolution images (e.g., 1024$\times$512), trained on small-size image patches (e.g., 64$\times$64). We name our algorithm Patch-DM, in which a new feature collage strategy is designed to avoid the boundary artifact when synthesizing large-size images. Feature collage systematically crops and combines partial features of the neighboring patches to predict the features of a shifted image patch, allowing the seamless generation of the entire image due to the overlap in the patch feature space. Patch-DM produces high-quality image synthesis results on our newly collected dataset of nature images (1024$\times$512), as well as on standard benchmarks of smaller sizes (256$\times$256), including LSUN-Bedroom, LSUN-Church, and FFHQ. We compare our method with previous patch-based generation methods and achieve state-of-the-art FID scores on all four datasets. Further, Patch-DM also reduces memory complexity compared to the classic diffusion models. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** CMUNeXt: An Efficient Medical Image Segmentation Network based on Large  Kernel and Skip Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01239  
**Abstract:** The U-shaped architecture has emerged as a crucial paradigm in the design of medical image segmentation networks. However, due to the inherent local limitations of convolution, a fully convolutional segmentation network with U-shaped architecture struggles to effectively extract global context information, which is vital for the precise localization of lesions. While hybrid architectures combining CNNs and Transformers can address these issues, their application in real medical scenarios is limited due to the computational resource constraints imposed by the environment and edge devices. In addition, the convolutional inductive bias in lightweight networks adeptly fits the scarce medical data, which is lacking in the Transformer based network. In order to extract global context information while taking advantage of the inductive bias, we propose CMUNeXt, an efficient fully convolutional lightweight medical image segmentation network, which enables fast and accurate auxiliary diagnosis in real scene scenarios. CMUNeXt leverages large kernel and inverted bottleneck design to thoroughly mix distant spatial and location information, efficiently extracting global context information. We also introduce the Skip-Fusion block, designed to enable smooth skip-connections and ensure ample feature fusion. Experimental results on multiple medical image datasets demonstrate that CMUNeXt outperforms existing heavyweight and lightweight medical image segmentation networks in terms of segmentation performance, while offering a faster inference speed, lighter weights, and a reduced computational cost. The code is available at https://github.com/FengheTan9/CMUNeXt. 

