**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Unified Concept Editing in Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14761  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image models suffer from various safety issues that may limit their suitability for deployment. Previous methods have separately addressed individual issues of bias, copyright, and offensive content in text-to-image models. However, in the real world, all of these issues appear simultaneously in the same model. We present a method that tackles all issues with a single approach. Our method, Unified Concept Editing (UCE), edits the model without training using a closed-form solution, and scales seamlessly to concurrent edits on text-conditional diffusion models. We demonstrate scalable simultaneous debiasing, style erasure, and content moderation by editing text-to-image projections, and we present extensive experiments demonstrating improved efficacy and scalability over prior work. Our code is available at https://unified.baulab.info 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Generating tabular datasets under differential privacy  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14784  
**Abstract:** Machine Learning (ML) is accelerating progress across fields and industries, but relies on accessible and high-quality training data. Some of the most important datasets are found in biomedical and financial domains in the form of spreadsheets and relational databases. But this tabular data is often sensitive in nature. Synthetic data generation offers the potential to unlock sensitive data, but generative models tend to memorise and regurgitate training data, which undermines the privacy goal. To remedy this, researchers have incorporated the mathematical framework of Differential Privacy (DP) into the training process of deep neural networks. But this creates a trade-off between the quality and privacy of the resulting data. Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are the dominant paradigm for synthesising tabular data under DP, but suffer from unstable adversarial training and mode collapse, which are exacerbated by the privacy constraints and challenging tabular data modality. This work optimises the quality-privacy trade-off of generative models, producing higher quality tabular datasets with the same privacy guarantees. We implement novel end-to-end models that leverage attention mechanisms to learn reversible tabular representations. We also introduce TableDiffusion, the first differentially-private diffusion model for tabular data synthesis. Our experiments show that TableDiffusion produces higher-fidelity synthetic datasets, avoids the mode collapse problem, and achieves state-of-the-art performance on privatised tabular data synthesis. By implementing TableDiffusion to predict the added noise, we enabled it to bypass the challenges of reconstructing mixed-type tabular data. Overall, the diffusion paradigm proves vastly more data and privacy efficient than the adversarial paradigm, due to augmented re-use of each data batch and a smoother iterative training process. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** CLNeRF: Continual Learning Meets NeRF  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14816  
**Abstract:** Novel view synthesis aims to render unseen views given a set of calibrated images. In practical applications, the coverage, appearance or geometry of the scene may change over time, with new images continuously being captured. Efficiently incorporating such continuous change is an open challenge. Standard NeRF benchmarks only involve scene coverage expansion. To study other practical scene changes, we propose a new dataset, World Across Time (WAT), consisting of scenes that change in appearance and geometry over time. We also propose a simple yet effective method, CLNeRF, which introduces continual learning (CL) to Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs). CLNeRF combines generative replay and the Instant Neural Graphics Primitives (NGP) architecture to effectively prevent catastrophic forgetting and efficiently update the model when new data arrives. We also add trainable appearance and geometry embeddings to NGP, allowing a single compact model to handle complex scene changes. Without the need to store historical images, CLNeRF trained sequentially over multiple scans of a changing scene performs on-par with the upper bound model trained on all scans at once. Compared to other CL baselines CLNeRF performs much better across standard benchmarks and WAT. The source code, and the WAT dataset are available at https://github.com/IntelLabs/CLNeRF. Video presentation is available at: https://youtu.be/nLRt6OoDGq0?si=8yD6k-8MMBJInQPs 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Identifying and Mitigating the Security Risks of Generative AI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14840  
**Abstract:** Every major technical invention resurfaces the dual-use dilemma -- the new technology has the potential to be used for good as well as for harm. Generative AI (GenAI) techniques, such as large language models (LLMs) and diffusion models, have shown remarkable capabilities (e.g., in-context learning, code-completion, and text-to-image generation and editing). However, GenAI can be used just as well by attackers to generate new attacks and increase the velocity and efficacy of existing attacks. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Attention Visualizer Package: Revealing Word Importance for Deeper  Insight into Encoder-Only Transformer Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14850  
**Abstract:** This report introduces the Attention Visualizer package, which is crafted to visually illustrate the significance of individual words in encoder-only transformer-based models. In contrast to other methods that center on tokens and self-attention scores, our approach will examine the words and their impact on the final embedding representation. Libraries like this play a crucial role in enhancing the interpretability and explainability of neural networks. They offer the opportunity to illuminate their internal mechanisms, providing a better understanding of how they operate and can be enhanced. You can access the code and review examples on the following GitHub repository: https://github.com/AlaFalaki/AttentionVisualizer. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Statistically Efficient Variance Reduction with Double Policy Estimation  for Off-Policy Evaluation in Sequence-Modeled Reinforcement Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14897  
**Abstract:** Offline reinforcement learning aims to utilize datasets of previously gathered environment-action interaction records to learn a policy without access to the real environment. Recent work has shown that offline reinforcement learning can be formulated as a sequence modeling problem and solved via supervised learning with approaches such as decision transformer. While these sequence-based methods achieve competitive results over return-to-go methods, especially on tasks that require longer episodes or with scarce rewards, importance sampling is not considered to correct the policy bias when dealing with off-policy data, mainly due to the absence of behavior policy and the use of deterministic evaluation policies. To this end, we propose DPE: an RL algorithm that blends offline sequence modeling and offline reinforcement learning with Double Policy Estimation (DPE) in a unified framework with statistically proven properties on variance reduction. We validate our method in multiple tasks of OpenAI Gym with D4RL benchmarks. Our method brings a performance improvements on selected methods which outperforms SOTA baselines in several tasks, demonstrating the advantages of enabling double policy estimation for sequence-modeled reinforcement learning. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** BIT: Bi-Level Temporal Modeling for Efficient Supervised Action  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14900  
**Abstract:** We address the task of supervised action segmentation which aims to partition a video into non-overlapping segments, each representing a different action. Recent works apply transformers to perform temporal modeling at the frame-level, which suffer from high computational cost and cannot well capture action dependencies over long temporal horizons. To address these issues, we propose an efficient BI-level Temporal modeling (BIT) framework that learns explicit action tokens to represent action segments, in parallel performs temporal modeling on frame and action levels, while maintaining a low computational cost. Our model contains (i) a frame branch that uses convolution to learn frame-level relationships, (ii) an action branch that uses transformer to learn action-level dependencies with a small set of action tokens and (iii) cross-attentions to allow communication between the two branches. We apply and extend a set-prediction objective to allow each action token to represent one or multiple action segments, thus can avoid learning a large number of tokens over long videos with many segments. Thanks to the design of our action branch, we can also seamlessly leverage textual transcripts of videos (when available) to help action segmentation by using them to initialize the action tokens. We evaluate our model on four video datasets (two egocentric and two third-person) for action segmentation with and without transcripts, showing that BIT significantly improves the state-of-the-art accuracy with much lower computational cost (30 times faster) compared to existing transformer-based methods. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** Pruning Self-Attention for Zero-Shot Multi-Speaker Text-to-Speech  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14909  
**Abstract:** For personalized speech generation, a neural text-to-speech (TTS) model must be successfully implemented with limited data from a target speaker. To this end, the baseline TTS model needs to be amply generalized to out-of-domain data (i.e., target speaker's speech). However, approaches to address this out-of-domain generalization problem in TTS have yet to be thoroughly studied. In this work, we propose an effective pruning method for a transformer known as sparse attention, to improve the TTS model's generalization abilities. In particular, we prune off redundant connections from self-attention layers whose attention weights are below the threshold. To flexibly determine the pruning strength for searching optimal degree of generalization, we also propose a new differentiable pruning method that allows the model to automatically learn the thresholds. Evaluations on zero-shot multi-speaker TTS verify the effectiveness of our method in terms of voice quality and speaker similarity. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Transfusor: Transformer Diffusor for Controllable Human-like Generation  of Vehicle Lane Changing Trajectories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14943  
**Abstract:** With ongoing development of autonomous driving systems and increasing desire for deployment, researchers continue to seek reliable approaches for ADS systems. The virtual simulation test (VST) has become a prominent approach for testing autonomous driving systems (ADS) and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) due to its advantages of fast execution, low cost, and high repeatability. However, the success of these simulation-based experiments heavily relies on the realism of the testing scenarios. It is needed to create more flexible and high-fidelity testing scenarios in VST in order to increase the safety and reliabilityof ADS and ADAS.To address this challenge, this paper introduces the "Transfusor" model, which leverages the transformer and diffusor models (two cutting-edge deep learning generative technologies). The primary objective of the Transfusor model is to generate highly realistic and controllable human-like lane-changing trajectories in highway scenarios. Extensive experiments were carried out, and the results demonstrate that the proposed model effectively learns the spatiotemporal characteristics of humans' lane-changing behaviors and successfully generates trajectories that closely mimic real-world human driving. As such, the proposed model can play a critical role of creating more flexible and high-fidelity testing scenarios in the VST, ultimately leading to safer and more reliable ADS and ADAS. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Robust topology optimisation of lattice structures with spatially  correlated uncertainties  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14958  
**Abstract:** The uncertainties in material and other properties of structures are usually spatially correlated. We introduce an efficient technique for representing and processing spatially correlated random fields in robust topology optimisation of lattice structures. Robust optimisation considers the statistics of the structural response to obtain a design whose performance is less sensitive to the specific realisation of the random field. We represent Gaussian random fields on lattices by leveraging the established link between random fields and stochastic partial differential equations (SPDEs). It is known that the precision matrix, i.e. the inverse of the covariance matrix, of a random field with Mat\'ern covariance is equal to the finite element stiffness matrix of a possibly fractional PDE with a second-order elliptic operator. We consider the discretisation of the PDE on the lattice to obtain a random field which, by design, considers its geometry and connectivity. The so-obtained random field can be interpreted as a physics-informed prior by the hypothesis that the elliptic SPDE models the physical processes occurring during manufacturing, like heat and mass diffusion. Although the proposed approach is general, we demonstrate its application to lattices modelled as pin-jointed trusses with uncertainties in member Young's moduli. We consider as a cost function the weighted sum of the expectation and standard deviation of the structural compliance. To compute the expectation and standard deviation and their gradients with respect to member cross-sections we use a first-order Taylor series approximation. The cost function and its gradient are computed using only sparse matrix operations. We demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed approach using several lattice examples with isotropic, anisotropic and non-stationary random fields and up to eighty thousand random and optimisation variables. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Read-only Prompt Optimization for Vision-Language Few-shot Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14960  
**Abstract:** In recent years, prompt tuning has proven effective in adapting pre-trained vision-language models to downstream tasks. These methods aim to adapt the pre-trained models by introducing learnable prompts while keeping pre-trained weights frozen. However, learnable prompts can affect the internal representation within the self-attention module, which may negatively impact performance variance and generalization, especially in data-deficient settings. To address these issues, we propose a novel approach, Read-only Prompt Optimization (RPO). RPO leverages masked attention to prevent the internal representation shift in the pre-trained model. Further, to facilitate the optimization of RPO, the read-only prompts are initialized based on special tokens of the pre-trained model. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that RPO outperforms CLIP and CoCoOp in base-to-new generalization and domain generalization while displaying better robustness. Also, the proposed method achieves better generalization on extremely data-deficient settings, while improving parameter efficiency and computational overhead. Code is available at https://github.com/mlvlab/RPO. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Vision Grid Transformer for Document Layout Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14978  
**Abstract:** Document pre-trained models and grid-based models have proven to be very effective on various tasks in Document AI. However, for the document layout analysis (DLA) task, existing document pre-trained models, even those pre-trained in a multi-modal fashion, usually rely on either textual features or visual features. Grid-based models for DLA are multi-modality but largely neglect the effect of pre-training. To fully leverage multi-modal information and exploit pre-training techniques to learn better representation for DLA, in this paper, we present VGT, a two-stream Vision Grid Transformer, in which Grid Transformer (GiT) is proposed and pre-trained for 2D token-level and segment-level semantic understanding. Furthermore, a new dataset named D$^4$LA, which is so far the most diverse and detailed manually-annotated benchmark for document layout analysis, is curated and released. Experiment results have illustrated that the proposed VGT model achieves new state-of-the-art results on DLA tasks, e.g. PubLayNet ($95.7\%$$\rightarrow$$96.2\%$), DocBank ($79.6\%$$\rightarrow$$84.1\%$), and D$^4$LA ($67.7\%$$\rightarrow$$68.8\%$). The code and models as well as the D$^4$LA dataset will be made publicly available ~\url{https://github.com/AlibabaResearch/AdvancedLiterateMachinery}. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** PBFormer: Capturing Complex Scene Text Shape with Polynomial Band  Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15004  
**Abstract:** We present PBFormer, an efficient yet powerful scene text detector that unifies the transformer with a novel text shape representation Polynomial Band (PB). The representation has four polynomial curves to fit a text's top, bottom, left, and right sides, which can capture a text with a complex shape by varying polynomial coefficients. PB has appealing features compared with conventional representations: 1) It can model different curvatures with a fixed number of parameters, while polygon-points-based methods need to utilize a different number of points. 2) It can distinguish adjacent or overlapping texts as they have apparent different curve coefficients, while segmentation-based or points-based methods suffer from adhesive spatial positions. PBFormer combines the PB with the transformer, which can directly generate smooth text contours sampled from predicted curves without interpolation. A parameter-free cross-scale pixel attention (CPA) module is employed to highlight the feature map of a suitable scale while suppressing the other feature maps. The simple operation can help detect small-scale texts and is compatible with the one-stage DETR framework, where no postprocessing exists for NMS. Furthermore, PBFormer is trained with a shape-contained loss, which not only enforces the piecewise alignment between the ground truth and the predicted curves but also makes curves' positions and shapes consistent with each other. Without bells and whistles about text pre-training, our method is superior to the previous state-of-the-art text detectors on the arbitrary-shaped text datasets. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** C2G2: Controllable Co-speech Gesture Generation with Latent Diffusion  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15016  
**Abstract:** Co-speech gesture generation is crucial for automatic digital avatar animation. However, existing methods suffer from issues such as unstable training and temporal inconsistency, particularly in generating high-fidelity and comprehensive gestures. Additionally, these methods lack effective control over speaker identity and temporal editing of the generated gestures. Focusing on capturing temporal latent information and applying practical controlling, we propose a Controllable Co-speech Gesture Generation framework, named C2G2. Specifically, we propose a two-stage temporal dependency enhancement strategy motivated by latent diffusion models. We further introduce two key features to C2G2, namely a speaker-specific decoder to generate speaker-related real-length skeletons and a repainting strategy for flexible gesture generation/editing. Extensive experiments on benchmark gesture datasets verify the effectiveness of our proposed C2G2 compared with several state-of-the-art baselines. The link of the project demo page can be found at https://c2g2-gesture.github.io/c2_gesture 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Recursively Summarizing Enables Long-Term Dialogue Memory in Large  Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15022  
**Abstract:** Most open-domain dialogue systems suffer from forgetting important information, especially in a long-term conversation. Existing works usually train the specific retriever or summarizer to obtain key information from the past, which is time-consuming and highly depends on the quality of labeled data. To alleviate this problem, we propose to recursively generate summaries/ memory using large language models (LLMs) to enhance long-term memory ability. Specifically, our method first stimulates LLMs to memorize small dialogue contexts and then recursively produce new memory using previous memory and following contexts. Finally, the LLM can easily generate a highly consistent response with the help of the latest memory. We evaluate our method using ChatGPT and text-davinci-003, and the experiments on the widely-used public dataset show that our method can generate more consistent responses in a long-context conversation. Notably, our method is a potential solution to enable the LLM to model the extremely long context. Code and scripts will be released later. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Improving Neural Ranking Models with Traditional IR Methods  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15027  
**Abstract:** Neural ranking methods based on large transformer models have recently gained significant attention in the information retrieval community, and have been adopted by major commercial solutions. Nevertheless, they are computationally expensive to create, and require a great deal of labeled data for specialized corpora. In this paper, we explore a low resource alternative which is a bag-of-embedding model for document retrieval and find that it is competitive with large transformer models fine tuned on information retrieval tasks. Our results show that a simple combination of TF-IDF, a traditional keyword matching method, with a shallow embedding model provides a low cost path to compete well with the performance of complex neural ranking models on 3 datasets. Furthermore, adding TF-IDF measures improves the performance of large-scale fine tuned models on these tasks. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** STEC: See-Through Transformer-based Encoder for CTR Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15033  
**Abstract:** Click-Through Rate (CTR) prediction holds a pivotal place in online advertising and recommender systems since CTR prediction performance directly influences the overall satisfaction of the users and the revenue generated by companies. Even so, CTR prediction is still an active area of research since it involves accurately modelling the preferences of users based on sparse and high-dimensional features where the higher-order interactions of multiple features can lead to different outcomes. Most CTR prediction models have relied on a single fusion and interaction learning strategy. The few CTR prediction models that have utilized multiple interaction modelling strategies have treated each interaction to be self-contained. In this paper, we propose a novel model named STEC that reaps the benefits of multiple interaction learning approaches in a single unified architecture. Additionally, our model introduces residual connections from different orders of interactions which boosts the performance by allowing lower level interactions to directly affect the predictions. Through extensive experiments on four real-world datasets, we demonstrate that STEC outperforms existing state-of-the-art approaches for CTR prediction thanks to its greater expressive capabilities. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Pose-Free Neural Radiance Fields via Implicit Pose Regularization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15049  
**Abstract:** Pose-free neural radiance fields (NeRF) aim to train NeRF with unposed multi-view images and it has achieved very impressive success in recent years. Most existing works share the pipeline of training a coarse pose estimator with rendered images at first, followed by a joint optimization of estimated poses and neural radiance field. However, as the pose estimator is trained with only rendered images, the pose estimation is usually biased or inaccurate for real images due to the domain gap between real images and rendered images, leading to poor robustness for the pose estimation of real images and further local minima in joint optimization. We design IR-NeRF, an innovative pose-free NeRF that introduces implicit pose regularization to refine pose estimator with unposed real images and improve the robustness of the pose estimation for real images. With a collection of 2D images of a specific scene, IR-NeRF constructs a scene codebook that stores scene features and captures the scene-specific pose distribution implicitly as priors. Thus, the robustness of pose estimation can be promoted with the scene priors according to the rationale that a 2D real image can be well reconstructed from the scene codebook only when its estimated pose lies within the pose distribution. Extensive experiments show that IR-NeRF achieves superior novel view synthesis and outperforms the state-of-the-art consistently across multiple synthetic and real datasets. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** DiffBIR: Towards Blind Image Restoration with Generative Diffusion Prior  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15070  
**Abstract:** We present DiffBIR, which leverages pretrained text-to-image diffusion models for blind image restoration problem. Our framework adopts a two-stage pipeline. In the first stage, we pretrain a restoration module across diversified degradations to improve generalization capability in real-world scenarios. The second stage leverages the generative ability of latent diffusion models, to achieve realistic image restoration. Specifically, we introduce an injective modulation sub-network -- LAControlNet for finetuning, while the pre-trained Stable Diffusion is to maintain its generative ability. Finally, we introduce a controllable module that allows users to balance quality and fidelity by introducing the latent image guidance in the denoising process during inference. Extensive experiments have demonstrated its superiority over state-of-the-art approaches for both blind image super-resolution and blind face restoration tasks on synthetic and real-world datasets. The code is available at https://github.com/XPixelGroup/DiffBIR. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Killing two birds with one stone: Can an audio captioning system also be  used for audio-text retrieval?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15090  
**Abstract:** Automated Audio Captioning (AAC) aims to develop systems capable of describing an audio recording using a textual sentence. In contrast, Audio-Text Retrieval (ATR) systems seek to find the best matching audio recording(s) for a given textual query (Text-to-Audio) or vice versa (Audio-to-Text). These tasks require different types of systems: AAC employs a sequence-to-sequence model, while ATR utilizes a ranking model that compares audio and text representations within a shared projection subspace. However, this work investigates the relationship between AAC and ATR by exploring the ATR capabilities of an unmodified AAC system, without fine-tuning for the new task. Our AAC system consists of an audio encoder (ConvNeXt-Tiny) trained on AudioSet for audio tagging, and a transformer decoder responsible for generating sentences. For AAC, it achieves a high SPIDEr-FL score of 0.298 on Clotho and 0.472 on AudioCaps on average. For ATR, we propose using the standard Cross-Entropy loss values obtained for any audio/caption pair. Experimental results on the Clotho and AudioCaps datasets demonstrate decent recall values using this simple approach. For instance, we obtained a Text-to-Audio R@1 value of 0.382 for Au-dioCaps, which is above the current state-of-the-art method without external data. Interestingly, we observe that normalizing the loss values was necessary for Audio-to-Text retrieval. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** DiffusionVMR: Diffusion Model for Video Moment Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15109  
**Abstract:** Video moment retrieval is a fundamental visual-language task that aims to retrieve target moments from an untrimmed video based on a language query. Existing methods typically generate numerous proposals manually or via generative networks in advance as the support set for retrieval, which is not only inflexible but also time-consuming. Inspired by the success of diffusion models on object detection, this work aims at reformulating video moment retrieval as a denoising generation process to get rid of the inflexible and time-consuming proposal generation. To this end, we propose a novel proposal-free framework, namely DiffusionVMR, which directly samples random spans from noise as candidates and introduces denoising learning to ground target moments. During training, Gaussian noise is added to the real moments, and the model is trained to learn how to reverse this process. In inference, a set of time spans is progressively refined from the initial noise to the final output. Notably, the training and inference of DiffusionVMR are decoupled, and an arbitrary number of random spans can be used in inference without being consistent with the training phase. Extensive experiments conducted on three widely-used benchmarks (i.e., QVHighlight, Charades-STA, and TACoS) demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed DiffusionVMR by comparing it with state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Large Language Models on the Chessboard: A Study on ChatGPT's Formal  Language Comprehension and Complex Reasoning Skills  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15118  
**Abstract:** While large language models have made strides in natural language processing, their proficiency in complex reasoning tasks requiring formal language comprehension, such as chess, remains less investigated. This paper probes the performance of ChatGPT, a sophisticated language model by OpenAI in tackling such complex reasoning tasks, using chess as a case study. Through robust metrics examining both the legality and quality of moves, we assess ChatGPT's understanding of the chessboard, adherence to chess rules, and strategic decision-making abilities. Our evaluation identifies limitations within ChatGPT's attention mechanism that affect its formal language comprehension and uncovers the model's underdeveloped self-regulation abilities. Our study also reveals ChatGPT's propensity for a coherent strategy in its gameplay and a noticeable uptick in decision-making assertiveness when the model is presented with a greater volume of natural language or possesses a more lucid understanding of the state of the chessboard. These findings contribute to the growing exploration of language models' abilities beyond natural language processing, providing valuable information for future research towards models demonstrating human-like cognitive abilities. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** SpikeBERT: A Language Spikformer Trained with Two-Stage Knowledge  Distillation from BERT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15122  
**Abstract:** Spiking neural networks (SNNs) offer a promising avenue to implement deep neural networks in a more energy-efficient way. However, the network architectures of existing SNNs for language tasks are too simplistic, and deep architectures have not been fully explored, resulting in a significant performance gap compared to mainstream transformer-based networks such as BERT. To this end, we improve a recently-proposed spiking transformer (i.e., Spikformer) to make it possible to process language tasks and propose a two-stage knowledge distillation method for training it, which combines pre-training by distilling knowledge from BERT with a large collection of unlabelled texts and fine-tuning with task-specific instances via knowledge distillation again from the BERT fine-tuned on the same training examples. Through extensive experimentation, we show that the models trained with our method, named SpikeBERT, outperform state-of-the-art SNNs and even achieve comparable results to BERTs on text classification tasks for both English and Chinese with much less energy consumption. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Evaluation and Analysis of Hallucination in Large Vision-Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15126  
**Abstract:** Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have recently achieved remarkable success. However, LVLMs are still plagued by the hallucination problem, which limits the practicality in many scenarios. Hallucination refers to the information of LVLMs' responses that does not exist in the visual input, which poses potential risks of substantial consequences. There has been limited work studying hallucination evaluation in LVLMs. In this paper, we propose Hallucination Evaluation based on Large Language Models (HaELM), an LLM-based hallucination evaluation framework. HaELM achieves an approximate 95% performance comparable to ChatGPT and has additional advantages including low cost, reproducibility, privacy preservation and local deployment. Leveraging the HaELM, we evaluate the hallucination in current LVLMs. Furthermore, we analyze the factors contributing to hallucination in LVLMs and offer helpful suggestions to mitigate the hallucination problem. Our training data and human annotation hallucination data will be made public soon. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** A Multimodal Visual Encoding Model Aided by Introducing Verbal Semantic  Information  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15142  
**Abstract:** Biological research has revealed that the verbal semantic information in the brain cortex, as an additional source, participates in nonverbal semantic tasks, such as visual encoding. However, previous visual encoding models did not incorporate verbal semantic information, contradicting this biological finding. This paper proposes a multimodal visual information encoding network model based on stimulus images and associated textual information in response to this issue. Our visual information encoding network model takes stimulus images as input and leverages textual information generated by a text-image generation model as verbal semantic information. This approach injects new information into the visual encoding model. Subsequently, a Transformer network aligns image and text feature information, creating a multimodal feature space. A convolutional network then maps from this multimodal feature space to voxel space, constructing the multimodal visual information encoding network model. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed multimodal visual information encoding network model outperforms previous models under the exact training cost. In voxel prediction of the left hemisphere of subject 1's brain, the performance improves by approximately 15.87%, while in the right hemisphere, the performance improves by about 4.6%. The multimodal visual encoding network model exhibits superior encoding performance. Additionally, ablation experiments indicate that our proposed model better simulates the brain's visual information processing. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** FurChat: An Embodied Conversational Agent using LLMs, Combining Open and  Closed-Domain Dialogue with Facial Expressions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15214  
**Abstract:** We demonstrate an embodied conversational agent that can function as a receptionist and generate a mixture of open and closed-domain dialogue along with facial expressions, by using a large language model (LLM) to develop an engaging conversation. We deployed the system onto a Furhat robot, which is highly expressive and capable of using both verbal and nonverbal cues during interaction. The system was designed specifically for the National Robotarium to interact with visitors through natural conversations, providing them with information about the facilities, research, news, upcoming events, etc. The system utilises the state-of-the-art GPT-3.5 model to generate such information along with domain-general conversations and facial expressions based on prompt engineering. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** CLIPTrans: Transferring Visual Knowledge with Pre-trained Models for  Multimodal Machine Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15226  
**Abstract:** There has been a growing interest in developing multimodal machine translation (MMT) systems that enhance neural machine translation (NMT) with visual knowledge. This problem setup involves using images as auxiliary information during training, and more recently, eliminating their use during inference. Towards this end, previous works face a challenge in training powerful MMT models from scratch due to the scarcity of annotated multilingual vision-language data, especially for low-resource languages. Simultaneously, there has been an influx of multilingual pre-trained models for NMT and multimodal pre-trained models for vision-language tasks, primarily in English, which have shown exceptional generalisation ability. However, these are not directly applicable to MMT since they do not provide aligned multimodal multilingual features for generative tasks. To alleviate this issue, instead of designing complex modules for MMT, we propose CLIPTrans, which simply adapts the independently pre-trained multimodal M-CLIP and the multilingual mBART. In order to align their embedding spaces, mBART is conditioned on the M-CLIP features by a prefix sequence generated through a lightweight mapping network. We train this in a two-stage pipeline which warms up the model with image captioning before the actual translation task. Through experiments, we demonstrate the merits of this framework and consequently push forward the state-of-the-art across standard benchmarks by an average of +2.67 BLEU. The code can be found at www.github.com/devaansh100/CLIPTrans. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Multi-party Goal Tracking with LLMs: Comparing Pre-training,  Fine-tuning, and Prompt Engineering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15231  
**Abstract:** This paper evaluates the extent to which current Large Language Models (LLMs) can capture task-oriented multi-party conversations (MPCs). We have recorded and transcribed 29 MPCs between patients, their companions, and a social robot in a hospital. We then annotated this corpus for multi-party goal-tracking and intent-slot recognition. People share goals, answer each other's goals, and provide other people's goals in MPCs - none of which occur in dyadic interactions. To understand user goals in MPCs, we compared three methods in zero-shot and few-shot settings: we fine-tuned T5, created pre-training tasks to train DialogLM using LED, and employed prompt engineering techniques with GPT-3.5-turbo, to determine which approach can complete this novel task with limited data. GPT-3.5-turbo significantly outperformed the others in a few-shot setting. The `reasoning' style prompt, when given 7% of the corpus as example annotated conversations, was the best performing method. It correctly annotated 62.32% of the goal tracking MPCs, and 69.57% of the intent-slot recognition MPCs. A `story' style prompt increased model hallucination, which could be detrimental if deployed in safety-critical settings. We conclude that multi-party conversations still challenge state-of-the-art LLMs. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Hyperbolic Code Retrieval: A Novel Approach for Efficient Code Search  Using Hyperbolic Space Embeddings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15234  
**Abstract:** Within the realm of advanced code retrieval, existing methods have primarily relied on intricate matching and attention-based mechanisms. However, these methods often lead to computational and memory inefficiencies, posing a significant challenge to their real-world applicability. To tackle this challenge, we propose a novel approach, the Hyperbolic Code QA Matching (HyCoQA). This approach leverages the unique properties of Hyperbolic space to express connections between code fragments and their corresponding queries, thereby obviating the necessity for intricate interaction layers. The process commences with a reimagining of the code retrieval challenge, framed within a question-answering (QA) matching framework, constructing a dataset with triple matches characterized as \texttt{<}negative code, description, positive code\texttt{>}. These matches are subsequently processed via a static BERT embedding layer, yielding initial embeddings. Thereafter, a hyperbolic embedder transforms these representations into hyperbolic space, calculating distances between the codes and descriptions. The process concludes by implementing a scoring layer on these distances and leveraging hinge loss for model training. Especially, the design of HyCoQA inherently facilitates self-organization, allowing for the automatic detection of embedded hierarchical patterns during the learning phase. Experimentally, HyCoQA showcases remarkable effectiveness in our evaluations: an average performance improvement of 3.5\% to 4\% compared to state-of-the-art code retrieval techniques. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** NOVIS: A Case for End-to-End Near-Online Video Instance Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15266  
**Abstract:** Until recently, the Video Instance Segmentation (VIS) community operated under the common belief that offline methods are generally superior to a frame by frame online processing. However, the recent success of online methods questions this belief, in particular, for challenging and long video sequences. We understand this work as a rebuttal of those recent observations and an appeal to the community to focus on dedicated near-online VIS approaches. To support our argument, we present a detailed analysis on different processing paradigms and the new end-to-end trainable NOVIS (Near-Online Video Instance Segmentation) method. Our transformer-based model directly predicts spatio-temporal mask volumes for clips of frames and performs instance tracking between clips via overlap embeddings. NOVIS represents the first near-online VIS approach which avoids any handcrafted tracking heuristics. We outperform all existing VIS methods by large margins and provide new state-of-the-art results on both YouTube-VIS (2019/2021) and the OVIS benchmarks. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Empowering LLM to use Smartphone for Intelligent Task Automation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15272  
**Abstract:** Mobile task automation is an attractive technique that aims to enable voice-based hands-free user interaction with smartphones. However, existing approaches suffer from poor scalability due to the limited language understanding ability and the non-trivial manual efforts required from developers or end-users. The recent advance of large language models (LLMs) in language understanding and reasoning inspires us to rethink the problem from a model-centric perspective, where task preparation, comprehension, and execution are handled by a unified language model. In this work, we introduce AutoDroid, a mobile task automation system that can handle arbitrary tasks on any Android application without manual efforts. The key insight is to combine the commonsense knowledge of LLMs and domain-specific knowledge of apps through automated dynamic analysis. The main components include a functionality-aware UI representation method that bridges the UI with the LLM, exploration-based memory injection techniques that augment the app-specific domain knowledge of LLM, and a multi-granularity query optimization module that reduces the cost of model inference. We integrate AutoDroid with off-the-shelf LLMs including online GPT-4/GPT-3.5 and on-device Vicuna, and evaluate its performance on a new benchmark for memory-augmented Android task automation with 158 common tasks. The results demonstrated that AutoDroid is able to precisely generate actions with an accuracy of 90.9%, and complete tasks with a success rate of 71.3%, outperforming the GPT-4-powered baselines by 36.4% and 39.7%. The demo, benchmark suites, and source code of AutoDroid will be released at https://autodroid-sys.github.io/. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Cross-Modal Retrieval Meets Inference:Improving Zero-Shot Classification  with Cross-Modal Retrieval  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15273  
**Abstract:** Contrastive language-image pre-training (CLIP) has demonstrated remarkable zero-shot classification ability, namely image classification using novel text labels. Existing works have attempted to enhance CLIP by fine-tuning on downstream tasks, but these have inadvertently led to performance degradation on unseen classes, thus harming zero-shot generalization. This paper aims to address this challenge by leveraging readily available image-text pairs from an external dataset for cross-modal guidance during inference. To this end, we propose X-MoRe, a novel inference method comprising two key steps: (1) cross-modal retrieval and (2) modal-confidence-based ensemble. Given a query image, we harness the power of CLIP's cross-modal representations to retrieve relevant textual information from an external image-text pair dataset. Then, we assign higher weights to the more reliable modality between the original query image and retrieved text, contributing to the final prediction. X-MoRe demonstrates robust performance across a diverse set of tasks without the need for additional training, showcasing the effectiveness of utilizing cross-modal features to maximize CLIP's zero-shot ability. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Large Language Models in Fault Localisation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15276  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promise in multiple software engineering tasks including code generation, code summarisation, test generation and code repair. Fault localisation is essential for facilitating automatic program debugging and repair, and is demonstrated as a highlight at ChatGPT-4's launch event. Nevertheless, there has been little work understanding LLMs' capabilities for fault localisation in large-scale open-source programs. To fill this gap, this paper presents an in-depth investigation into the capability of ChatGPT-3.5 and ChatGPT-4, the two state-of-the-art LLMs, on fault localisation. Using the widely-adopted Defects4J dataset, we compare the two LLMs with the existing fault localisation techniques. We also investigate the stability and explanation of LLMs in fault localisation, as well as how prompt engineering and the length of code context affect the fault localisation effectiveness. Our findings demonstrate that within a limited code context, ChatGPT-4 outperforms all the existing fault localisation methods. Additional error logs can further improve ChatGPT models' localisation accuracy and stability, with an average 46.9% higher accuracy over the state-of-the-art baseline SmartFL in terms of TOP-1 metric. However, performance declines dramatically when the code context expands to the class-level, with ChatGPT models' effectiveness becoming inferior to the existing methods overall. Additionally, we observe that ChatGPT's explainability is unsatisfactory, with an accuracy rate of only approximately 30%. These observations demonstrate that while ChatGPT can achieve effective fault localisation performance under certain conditions, evident limitations exist. Further research is imperative to fully harness the potential of LLMs like ChatGPT for practical fault localisation applications. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Elucidating the Exposure Bias in Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15321  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have demonstrated impressive generative capabilities, but their 'exposure bias' problem, described as the input mismatch between training and sampling, lacks in-depth exploration. In this paper, we systematically investigate the exposure bias problem in diffusion models by first analytically modelling the sampling distribution, based on which we then attribute the prediction error at each sampling step as the root cause of the exposure bias issue. Furthermore, we discuss potential solutions to this issue and propose an intuitive metric for it. Along with the elucidation of exposure bias, we propose a simple, yet effective, training-free method called Epsilon Scaling to alleviate the exposure bias. We show that Epsilon Scaling explicitly moves the sampling trajectory closer to the vector field learned in the training phase by scaling down the network output (Epsilon), mitigating the input mismatch between training and sampling. Experiments on various diffusion frameworks (ADM, DDPM/DDIM, LDM), unconditional and conditional settings, and deterministic vs. stochastic sampling verify the effectiveness of our method. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Efficient Model Personalization in Federated Learning via  Client-Specific Prompt Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15367  
**Abstract:** Federated learning (FL) emerges as a decentralized learning framework which trains models from multiple distributed clients without sharing their data to preserve privacy. Recently, large-scale pre-trained models (e.g., Vision Transformer) have shown a strong capability of deriving robust representations. However, the data heterogeneity among clients, the limited computation resources, and the communication bandwidth restrict the deployment of large-scale models in FL frameworks. To leverage robust representations from large-scale models while enabling efficient model personalization for heterogeneous clients, we propose a novel personalized FL framework of client-specific Prompt Generation (pFedPG), which learns to deploy a personalized prompt generator at the server for producing client-specific visual prompts that efficiently adapts frozen backbones to local data distributions. Our proposed framework jointly optimizes the stages of personalized prompt adaptation locally and personalized prompt generation globally. The former aims to train visual prompts that adapt foundation models to each client, while the latter observes local optimization directions to generate personalized prompts for all clients. Through extensive experiments on benchmark datasets, we show that our pFedPG is favorable against state-of-the-art personalized FL methods under various types of data heterogeneity, allowing computation and communication efficient model personalization. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** ParaGuide: Guided Diffusion Paraphrasers for Plug-and-Play Textual Style  Transfer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15459  
**Abstract:** Textual style transfer is the task of transforming stylistic properties of text while preserving meaning. Target "styles" can be defined in numerous ways, ranging from single attributes (e.g, formality) to authorship (e.g, Shakespeare). Previous unsupervised style-transfer approaches generally rely on significant amounts of labeled data for only a fixed set of styles or require large language models. In contrast, we introduce a novel diffusion-based framework for general-purpose style transfer that can be flexibly adapted to arbitrary target styles at inference time. Our parameter-efficient approach, ParaGuide, leverages paraphrase-conditioned diffusion models alongside gradient-based guidance from both off-the-shelf classifiers and strong existing style embedders to transform the style of text while preserving semantic information. We validate the method on the Enron Email Corpus, with both human and automatic evaluations, and find that it outperforms strong baselines on formality, sentiment, and even authorship style transfer. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Online Overexposed Pixels Hallucination in Videos with Adaptive  Reference Frame Selection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15462  
**Abstract:** Low dynamic range (LDR) cameras cannot deal with wide dynamic range inputs, frequently leading to local overexposure issues. We present a learning-based system to reduce these artifacts without resorting to complex acquisition mechanisms like alternating exposures or costly processing that are typical of high dynamic range (HDR) imaging. We propose a transformer-based deep neural network (DNN) to infer the missing HDR details. In an ablation study, we show the importance of using a multiscale DNN and train it with the proper cost function to achieve state-of-the-art quality. To aid the reconstruction of the overexposed areas, our DNN takes a reference frame from the past as an additional input. This leverages the commonly occurring temporal instabilities of autoexposure to our advantage: since well-exposed details in the current frame may be overexposed in the future, we use reinforcement learning to train a reference frame selection DNN that decides whether to adopt the current frame as a future reference. Without resorting to alternating exposures, we obtain therefore a causal, HDR hallucination algorithm with potential application in common video acquisition settings. Our demo video can be found at https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-r12BKImLOYCLUoPzdebnMyNjJ4Rk360/view 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** A Comparative Study of Loss Functions: Traffic Predictions in Regular  and Congestion Scenarios  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15464  
**Abstract:** Spatiotemporal graph neural networks have achieved state-of-the-art performance in traffic forecasting. However, they often struggle to forecast congestion accurately due to the limitations of traditional loss functions. While accurate forecasting of regular traffic conditions is crucial, a reliable AI system must also accurately forecast congestion scenarios to maintain safe and efficient transportation. In this paper, we explore various loss functions inspired by heavy tail analysis and imbalanced classification problems to address this issue. We evaluate the efficacy of these loss functions in forecasting traffic speed, with an emphasis on congestion scenarios. Through extensive experiments on real-world traffic datasets, we discovered that when optimizing for Mean Absolute Error (MAE), the MAE-Focal Loss function stands out as the most effective. When optimizing Mean Squared Error (MSE), Gumbel Loss proves to be the superior choice. These choices effectively forecast traffic congestion events without compromising the accuracy of regular traffic speed forecasts. This research enhances deep learning models' capabilities in forecasting sudden speed changes due to congestion and underscores the need for more research in this direction. By elevating the accuracy of congestion forecasting, we advocate for AI systems that are reliable, secure, and resilient in practical traffic management scenarios. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Learning Modulated Transformation in GANs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15472  
**Abstract:** The success of style-based generators largely benefits from style modulation, which helps take care of the cross-instance variation within data. However, the instance-wise stochasticity is typically introduced via regular convolution, where kernels interact with features at some fixed locations, limiting its capacity for modeling geometric variation. To alleviate this problem, we equip the generator in generative adversarial networks (GANs) with a plug-and-play module, termed as modulated transformation module (MTM). This module predicts spatial offsets under the control of latent codes, based on which the convolution operation can be applied at variable locations for different instances, and hence offers the model an additional degree of freedom to handle geometry deformation. Extensive experiments suggest that our approach can be faithfully generalized to various generative tasks, including image generation, 3D-aware image synthesis, and video generation, and get compatible with state-of-the-art frameworks without any hyper-parameter tuning. It is noteworthy that, towards human generation on the challenging TaiChi dataset, we improve the FID of StyleGAN3 from 21.36 to 13.60, demonstrating the efficacy of learning modulated geometry transformation. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** May the Force be with You: Unified Force-Centric Pre-Training for 3D  Molecular Conformations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14759  
**Abstract:** Recent works have shown the promise of learning pre-trained models for 3D molecular representation. However, existing pre-training models focus predominantly on equilibrium data and largely overlook off-equilibrium conformations. It is challenging to extend these methods to off-equilibrium data because their training objective relies on assumptions of conformations being the local energy minima. We address this gap by proposing a force-centric pretraining model for 3D molecular conformations covering both equilibrium and off-equilibrium data. For off-equilibrium data, our model learns directly from their atomic forces. For equilibrium data, we introduce zero-force regularization and forced-based denoising techniques to approximate near-equilibrium forces. We obtain a unified pre-trained model for 3D molecular representation with over 15 million diverse conformations. Experiments show that, with our pre-training objective, we increase forces accuracy by around 3 times compared to the un-pre-trained Equivariant Transformer model. By incorporating regularizations on equilibrium data, we solved the problem of unstable MD simulations in vanilla Equivariant Transformers, achieving state-of-the-art simulation performance with 2.45 times faster inference time than NequIP. As a powerful molecular encoder, our pre-trained model achieves on-par performance with state-of-the-art property prediction tasks. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** XVir: A Transformer-Based Architecture for Identifying Viral Reads from  Cancer Samples  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.14769  
**Abstract:** It is estimated that approximately 15% of cancers worldwide can be linked to viral infections. The viruses that can cause or increase the risk of cancer include human papillomavirus, hepatitis B and C viruses, Epstein-Barr virus, and human immunodeficiency virus, to name a few. The computational analysis of the massive amounts of tumor DNA data, whose collection is enabled by the recent advancements in sequencing technologies, have allowed studies of the potential association between cancers and viral pathogens. However, the high diversity of oncoviral families makes reliable detection of viral DNA difficult and thus, renders such analysis challenging. In this paper, we introduce XVir, a data pipeline that relies on a transformer-based deep learning architecture to reliably identify viral DNA present in human tumors. In particular, XVir is trained on genomic sequencing reads from viral and human genomes and may be used with tumor sequence information to find evidence of viral DNA in human cancers. Results on semi-experimental data demonstrate that XVir is capable of achieving high detection accuracy, generally outperforming state-of-the-art competing methods while being more compact and less computationally demanding. 

