**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Document AI: A Comparative Study of Transformer-Based, Graph-Based  Models, and Convolutional Neural Networks For Document Layout Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15517  
**Abstract:** Document AI aims to automatically analyze documents by leveraging natural language processing and computer vision techniques. One of the major tasks of Document AI is document layout analysis, which structures document pages by interpreting the content and spatial relationships of layout, image, and text. This task can be image-centric, wherein the aim is to identify and label various regions such as authors and paragraphs, or text-centric, where the focus is on classifying individual words in a document. Although there are increasingly sophisticated methods for improving layout analysis, doubts remain about the extent to which their findings can be generalized to a broader context. Specifically, prior work developed systems based on very different architectures, such as transformer-based, graph-based, and CNNs. However, no work has mentioned the effectiveness of these models in a comparative analysis. Moreover, while language-independent Document AI models capable of knowledge transfer have been developed, it remains to be investigated to what degree they can effectively transfer knowledge. In this study, we aim to fill these gaps by conducting a comparative evaluation of state-of-the-art models in document layout analysis and investigating the potential of cross-lingual layout analysis by utilizing machine translation techniques. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Efficient Ray Sampling for Radiance Fields Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15547  
**Abstract:** Accelerating neural radiance fields training is of substantial practical value, as the ray sampling strategy profoundly impacts network convergence. More efficient ray sampling can thus directly enhance existing NeRF models' training efficiency. We therefore propose a novel ray sampling approach for neural radiance fields that improves training efficiency while retaining photorealistic rendering results. First, we analyze the relationship between the pixel loss distribution of sampled rays and rendering quality. This reveals redundancy in the original NeRF's uniform ray sampling. Guided by this finding, we develop a sampling method leveraging pixel regions and depth boundaries. Our main idea is to sample fewer rays in training views, yet with each ray more informative for scene fitting. Sampling probability increases in pixel areas exhibiting significant color and depth variation, greatly reducing wasteful rays from other regions without sacrificing precision. Through this method, not only can the convergence of the network be accelerated, but the spatial geometry of a scene can also be perceived more accurately. Rendering outputs are enhanced, especially for texture-complex regions. Experiments demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art techniques on public benchmark datasets. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** InstaTune: Instantaneous Neural Architecture Search During Fine-Tuning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15609  
**Abstract:** One-Shot Neural Architecture Search (NAS) algorithms often rely on training a hardware agnostic super-network for a domain specific task. Optimal sub-networks are then extracted from the trained super-network for different hardware platforms. However, training super-networks from scratch can be extremely time consuming and compute intensive especially for large models that rely on a two-stage training process of pre-training and fine-tuning. State of the art pre-trained models are available for a wide range of tasks, but their large sizes significantly limits their applicability on various hardware platforms. We propose InstaTune, a method that leverages off-the-shelf pre-trained weights for large models and generates a super-network during the fine-tuning stage. InstaTune has multiple benefits. Firstly, since the process happens during fine-tuning, it minimizes the overall time and compute resources required for NAS. Secondly, the sub-networks extracted are optimized for the target task, unlike prior work that optimizes on the pre-training objective. Finally, InstaTune is easy to "plug and play" in existing frameworks. By using multi-objective evolutionary search algorithms along with lightly trained predictors, we find Pareto-optimal sub-networks that outperform their respective baselines across different performance objectives such as accuracy and MACs. Specifically, we demonstrate that our approach performs well across both unimodal (ViT and BERT) and multi-modal (BEiT-3) transformer based architectures. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Adaptive Attack Detection in Text Classification: Leveraging Space  Exploration Features for Text Sentiment Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15663  
**Abstract:** Adversarial example detection plays a vital role in adaptive cyber defense, especially in the face of rapidly evolving attacks. In adaptive cyber defense, the nature and characteristics of attacks continuously change, making it crucial to have robust mechanisms in place to detect and counter these threats effectively. By incorporating adversarial example detection techniques, adaptive cyber defense systems can enhance their ability to identify and mitigate attacks that attempt to exploit vulnerabilities in machine learning models or other systems. Adversarial examples are inputs that are crafted by applying intentional perturbations to natural inputs that result in incorrect classification. In this paper, we propose a novel approach that leverages the power of BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) and introduces the concept of Space Exploration Features. We utilize the feature vectors obtained from the BERT model's output to capture a new representation of feature space to improve the density estimation method. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Multimodal Foundation Models For Echocardiogram Interpretation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15670  
**Abstract:** Multimodal deep learning foundation models can learn the relationship between images and text. In the context of medical imaging, mapping images to language concepts reflects the clinical task of diagnostic image interpretation, however current general-purpose foundation models do not perform well in this context because their training corpus have limited medical text and images. To address this challenge and account for the range of cardiac physiology, we leverage 1,032,975 cardiac ultrasound videos and corresponding expert interpretations to develop EchoCLIP, a multimodal foundation model for echocardiography. EchoCLIP displays strong zero-shot (not explicitly trained) performance in cardiac function assessment (external validation left ventricular ejection fraction mean absolute error (MAE) of 7.1%) and identification of implanted intracardiac devices (areas under the curve (AUC) between 0.84 and 0.98 for pacemakers and artificial heart valves). We also developed a long-context variant (EchoCLIP-R) with a custom echocardiography report text tokenizer which can accurately identify unique patients across multiple videos (AUC of 0.86), identify clinical changes such as orthotopic heart transplants (AUC of 0.79) or cardiac surgery (AUC 0.77), and enable robust image-to-text search (mean cross-modal retrieval rank in the top 1% of candidate text reports). These emergent capabilities can be used for preliminary assessment and summarization of echocardiographic findings. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Intriguing Properties of Diffusion Models: A Large-Scale Dataset for  Evaluating Natural Attack Capability in Text-to-Image Generative Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15692  
**Abstract:** Denoising probabilistic diffusion models have shown breakthrough performance that can generate more photo-realistic images or human-level illustrations than the prior models such as GANs. This high image-generation capability has stimulated the creation of many downstream applications in various areas. However, we find that this technology is indeed a double-edged sword: We identify a new type of attack, called the Natural Denoising Diffusion (NDD) attack based on the finding that state-of-the-art deep neural network (DNN) models still hold their prediction even if we intentionally remove their robust features, which are essential to the human visual system (HVS), by text prompts. The NDD attack can generate low-cost, model-agnostic, and transferrable adversarial attacks by exploiting the natural attack capability in diffusion models. Motivated by the finding, we construct a large-scale dataset, Natural Denoising Diffusion Attack (NDDA) dataset, to systematically evaluate the risk of the natural attack capability of diffusion models with state-of-the-art text-to-image diffusion models. We evaluate the natural attack capability by answering 6 research questions. Through a user study to confirm the validity of the NDD attack, we find that the NDD attack can achieve an 88% detection rate while being stealthy to 93% of human subjects. We also find that the non-robust features embedded by diffusion models contribute to the natural attack capability. To confirm the model-agnostic and transferrable attack capability, we perform the NDD attack against an AD vehicle and find that 73% of the physically printed attacks can be detected as a stop sign. We hope that our study and dataset can help our community to be aware of the risk of diffusion models and facilitate further research toward robust DNN models. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** Investigating Quantitative-Qualitative Topical Preference: A Comparative  Study of Early and Late Engagers in Japanese ChatGPT Conversations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15699  
**Abstract:** This study investigates engagement patterns related to OpenAI's ChatGPT on Japanese Twitter, focusing on two distinct user groups - early and late engagers, inspired by the Innovation Theory. Early engagers are defined as individuals who initiated conversations about ChatGPT during its early stages, whereas late engagers are those who began participating at a later date. To examine the nature of the conversations, we employ a dual methodology, encompassing both quantitative and qualitative analyses. The quantitative analysis reveals that early engagers often engage with more forward-looking and speculative topics, emphasizing the technological advancements and potential transformative impact of ChatGPT. Conversely, the late engagers intereact more with contemporary topics, focusing on the optimization of existing AI capabilities and considering their inherent limitations. Through our qualitative analysis, we propose a method to measure the proportion of shared or unique viewpoints within topics across both groups. We found that early engagers generally concentrate on a more limited range of perspectives, whereas late engagers exhibit a wider range of viewpoints. Interestingly, a weak correlation was found between the volume of tweets and the diversity of discussed topics in both groups. These findings underscore the importance of identifying semantic bias, rather than relying solely on the volume of tweets, for understanding differences in communication styles between groups within a given topic. Moreover, our versatile dual methodology holds potential for broader applications, such as studying engagement patterns within different user groups, or in contexts beyond ChatGPT. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** A Survey on Multi-Behavior Sequential Recommendation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15701  
**Abstract:** Recommender systems is set up to address the issue of information overload in traditional information retrieval systems, which is focused on recommending information that is of most interest to users from massive information. Generally, there is a sequential nature and heterogeneity to the behavior of a person interacting with a system, leading to the proposal of multi-behavior sequential recommendation (MBSR). MBSR is a relatively new and worthy direction for in-depth research, which can achieve state-of-the-art recommendation through suitable modeling, and some related works have been proposed. This survey aims to shed light on the MBSR problem. Firstly, we introduce MBSR in detail, including its problem definition, application scenarios and challenges faced. Secondly, we detail the classification of MBSR, including neighborhood-based methods, matrix factorization-based methods and deep learning-based methods, where we further classify the deep learning-based methods into different learning architectures based on RNN, GNN, Transformer, and generic architectures as well as architectures that integrate hybrid techniques. In each method, we present related works based on the data perspective and the modeling perspective, as well as analyze the strengths, weaknesses and features of these works. Finally, we discuss some promising future research directions to address the challenges and improve the current status of MBSR. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Drone-NeRF: Efficient NeRF Based 3D Scene Reconstruction for Large-Scale  Drone Survey  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15733  
**Abstract:** Neural rendering has garnered substantial attention owing to its capacity for creating realistic 3D scenes. However, its applicability to extensive scenes remains challenging, with limitations in effectiveness. In this work, we propose the Drone-NeRF framework to enhance the efficient reconstruction of unbounded large-scale scenes suited for drone oblique photography using Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF). Our approach involves dividing the scene into uniform sub-blocks based on camera position and depth visibility. Sub-scenes are trained in parallel using NeRF, then merged for a complete scene. We refine the model by optimizing camera poses and guiding NeRF with a uniform sampler. Integrating chosen samples enhances accuracy. A hash-coded fusion MLP accelerates density representation, yielding RGB and Depth outputs. Our framework accounts for sub-scene constraints, reduces parallel-training noise, handles shadow occlusion, and merges sub-regions for a polished rendering result. This Drone-NeRF framework demonstrates promising capabilities in addressing challenges related to scene complexity, rendering efficiency, and accuracy in drone-obtained imagery. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Cyberbullying Detection for Low-resource Languages and Dialects: Review  of the State of the Art  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15745  
**Abstract:** The struggle of social media platforms to moderate content in a timely manner, encourages users to abuse such platforms to spread vulgar or abusive language, which, when performed repeatedly becomes cyberbullying a social problem taking place in virtual environments, yet with real-world consequences, such as depression, withdrawal, or even suicide attempts of its victims. Systems for the automatic detection and mitigation of cyberbullying have been developed but, unfortunately, the vast majority of them are for the English language, with only a handful available for low-resource languages. To estimate the present state of research and recognize the needs for further development, in this paper we present a comprehensive systematic survey of studies done so far for automatic cyberbullying detection in low-resource languages. We analyzed all studies on this topic that were available. We investigated more than seventy published studies on automatic detection of cyberbullying or related language in low-resource languages and dialects that were published between around 2017 and January 2023. There are 23 low-resource languages and dialects covered by this paper, including Bangla, Hindi, Dravidian languages and others. In the survey, we identify some of the research gaps of previous studies, which include the lack of reliable definitions of cyberbullying and its relevant subcategories, biases in the acquisition, and annotation of data. Based on recognizing those research gaps, we provide some suggestions for improving the general research conduct in cyberbullying detection, with a primary focus on low-resource languages. Based on those proposed suggestions, we collect and release a cyberbullying dataset in the Chittagonian dialect of Bangla and propose a number of initial ML solutions trained on that dataset. In addition, pre-trained transformer-based the BanglaBERT model was also attempted. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Density Stabilization Strategies for Nonholonomic Agents on Compact  Manifolds  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15755  
**Abstract:** In this article, we consider the problem of stabilizing a class of degenerate stochastic processes, which are constrained to a bounded Euclidean domain or a compact smooth manifold, to a given target probability density. Most existing works on modeling and control of robotic swarms that use partial differential equation (PDE) models assume that the robots' dynamics are holonomic, and hence, the associated stochastic processes have generators that are elliptic. We relax this assumption on the ellipticity of the generator of the stochastic processes, and consider the more practical case of the stabilization problem for a swarm of agents whose dynamics are given by a controllable driftless control-affine system. We construct state-feedback control laws that exponentially stabilize a swarm of nonholonomic agents to a target probability density that is sufficiently regular. State-feedback laws can stabilize a swarm only to target probability densities that are positive everywhere. To stabilize the swarm to probability densities that possibly have disconnected supports, we introduce a semilinear PDE model of a collection of interacting agents governed by a hybrid switching diffusion process. The interaction between the agents is modeled using a (mean-field) feedback law that is a function of the local density of the swarm, with the switching parameters as the control inputs. We show that under the action of this feedback law, the semilinear PDE system is globally asymptotically stable about the given target probability density. The stabilization strategies with and without agent interactions are verified numerically for agents that evolve according to the Brockett integrator; the strategy with interactions is additionally verified for agents that evolve according to an underactuated system on the sphere $S^2$. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Hanayo: Harnessing Wave-like Pipeline Parallelism for Enhanced Large  Model Training Efficiency  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15762  
**Abstract:** Large-scale language models have become increasingly challenging and expensive to train. Among various methods addressing this issue, Pipeline Parallelism has been widely employed to accommodate massive model weights within limited GPU memory. This paper introduces Hanayo, a wave-like pipeline parallelism strategy that boasts a concise structure and practical applicability, alongside a high-performance pipeline execution runtime to tackle the challenges of pipeline strategy implementation. Hanayo mitigates the issues of pipeline bubbles and excessive memory consumption prevalent in existing schemes, without resorting to model duplicates as in Chimera. Our evaluation, conducted on four distinct computing clusters and involving both GPT-like and BERT-like architectures with up to 32 GPUs, demonstrates up to a 30.4 \% increase in throughput compared to the state-of-the-art approach. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** HAlf-MAsked Model for Named Entity Sentiment analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15793  
**Abstract:** Named Entity Sentiment analysis (NESA) is one of the most actively developing application domains in Natural Language Processing (NLP). Social media NESA is a significant field of opinion analysis since detecting and tracking sentiment trends in the news flow is crucial for building various analytical systems and monitoring the media image of specific people or companies. In this paper, we study different transformers-based solutions NESA in RuSentNE-23 evaluation. Despite the effectiveness of the BERT-like models, they can still struggle with certain challenges, such as overfitting, which appeared to be the main obstacle in achieving high accuracy on the RuSentNE-23 data. We present several approaches to overcome this problem, among which there is a novel technique of additional pass over given data with masked entity before making the final prediction so that we can combine logits from the model when it knows the exact entity it predicts sentiment for and when it does not. Utilizing this technique, we ensemble multiple BERT- like models trained on different subsets of data to improve overall performance. Our proposed model achieves the best result on RuSentNE-23 evaluation data and demonstrates improved consistency in entity-level sentiment analysis. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Exploring Multi-Modal Contextual Knowledge for Open-Vocabulary Object  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15846  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we for the first time explore helpful multi-modal contextual knowledge to understand novel categories for open-vocabulary object detection (OVD). The multi-modal contextual knowledge stands for the joint relationship across regions and words. However, it is challenging to incorporate such multi-modal contextual knowledge into OVD. The reason is that previous detection frameworks fail to jointly model multi-modal contextual knowledge, as object detectors only support vision inputs and no caption description is provided at test time. To this end, we propose a multi-modal contextual knowledge distillation framework, MMC-Det, to transfer the learned contextual knowledge from a teacher fusion transformer with diverse multi-modal masked language modeling (D-MLM) to a student detector. The diverse multi-modal masked language modeling is realized by an object divergence constraint upon traditional multi-modal masked language modeling (MLM), in order to extract fine-grained region-level visual contexts, which are vital to object detection. Extensive experiments performed upon various detection datasets show the effectiveness of our multi-modal context learning strategy, where our approach well outperforms the recent state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Zero-shot Inversion Process for Image Attribute Editing with Diffusion  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15854  
**Abstract:** Denoising diffusion models have shown outstanding performance in image editing. Existing works tend to use either image-guided methods, which provide a visual reference but lack control over semantic coherence, or text-guided methods, which ensure faithfulness to text guidance but lack visual quality. To address the problem, we propose the Zero-shot Inversion Process (ZIP), a framework that injects a fusion of generated visual reference and text guidance into the semantic latent space of a \textit{frozen} pre-trained diffusion model. Only using a tiny neural network, the proposed ZIP produces diverse content and attributes under the intuitive control of the text prompt. Moreover, ZIP shows remarkable robustness for both in-domain and out-of-domain attribute manipulation on real images. We perform detailed experiments on various benchmark datasets. Compared to state-of-the-art methods, ZIP produces images of equivalent quality while providing a realistic editing effect. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** Feature Attention Network (FA-Net): A Deep-Learning Based Approach for  Underwater Single Image Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15868  
**Abstract:** Underwater image processing and analysis have been a hotspot of study in recent years, as more emphasis has been focused to underwater monitoring and usage of marine resources. Compared with the open environment, underwater image encountered with more complicated conditions such as light abortion, scattering, turbulence, nonuniform illumination and color diffusion. Although considerable advances and enhancement techniques achieved in resolving these issues, they treat low-frequency information equally across the entire channel, which results in limiting the network's representativeness. We propose a deep learning and feature-attention-based end-to-end network (FA-Net) to solve this problem. In particular, we propose a Residual Feature Attention Block (RFAB), containing the channel attention, pixel attention, and residual learning mechanism with long and short skip connections. RFAB allows the network to focus on learning high-frequency information while skipping low-frequency information on multi-hop connections. The channel and pixel attention mechanism considers each channel's different features and the uneven distribution of haze over different pixels in the image. The experimental results shows that the FA-Net propose by us provides higher accuracy, quantitatively and qualitatively and superiority to previous state-of-the-art methods. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** On the Potential of CLIP for Compositional Logical Reasoning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15887  
**Abstract:** In this paper we explore the possibility of using OpenAI's CLIP to perform logically coherent grounded visual reasoning. To that end, we formalize our terms and give a geometric analysis of how embeddings in CLIP's latent space would need to be configured in order for the system to be logically coherent. Our main conclusion is that, as usually configured, CLIP cannot perform such reasoning. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Physics-Informed DeepMRI: Bridging the Gap from Heat Diffusion to  k-Space Interpolation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15918  
**Abstract:** In the field of parallel imaging (PI), alongside image-domain regularization methods, substantial research has been dedicated to exploring $k$-space interpolation. However, the interpretability of these methods remains an unresolved issue. Furthermore, these approaches currently face acceleration limitations that are comparable to those experienced by image-domain methods. In order to enhance interpretability and overcome the acceleration limitations, this paper introduces an interpretable framework that unifies both $k$-space interpolation techniques and image-domain methods, grounded in the physical principles of heat diffusion equations. Building upon this foundational framework, a novel $k$-space interpolation method is proposed. Specifically, we model the process of high-frequency information attenuation in $k$-space as a heat diffusion equation, while the effort to reconstruct high-frequency information from low-frequency regions can be conceptualized as a reverse heat equation. However, solving the reverse heat equation poses a challenging inverse problem. To tackle this challenge, we modify the heat equation to align with the principles of magnetic resonance PI physics and employ the score-based generative method to precisely execute the modified reverse heat diffusion. Finally, experimental validation conducted on publicly available datasets demonstrates the superiority of the proposed approach over traditional $k$-space interpolation methods, deep learning-based $k$-space interpolation methods, and conventional diffusion models in terms of reconstruction accuracy, particularly in high-frequency regions. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** AnoVL: Adapting Vision-Language Models for Unified Zero-shot Anomaly  Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15939  
**Abstract:** Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) models have shown promising performance on zero-shot visual recognition tasks by learning visual representations under natural language supervision. Recent studies attempt the use of CLIP to tackle zero-shot anomaly detection by matching images with normal and abnormal state prompts. However, since CLIP focuses on building correspondence between paired text prompts and global image-level representations, the lack of patch-level vision to text alignment limits its capability on precise visual anomaly localization. In this work, we introduce a training-free adaptation (TFA) framework of CLIP for zero-shot anomaly localization. In the visual encoder, we innovate a training-free value-wise attention mechanism to extract intrinsic local tokens of CLIP for patch-level local description. From the perspective of text supervision, we particularly design a unified domain-aware contrastive state prompting template. On top of the proposed TFA, we further introduce a test-time adaptation (TTA) mechanism to refine anomaly localization results, where a layer of trainable parameters in the adapter is optimized using TFA's pseudo-labels and synthetic noise-corrupted tokens. With both TFA and TTA adaptation, we significantly exploit the potential of CLIP for zero-shot anomaly localization and demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methods on various datasets. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** WALL-E: Embodied Robotic WAiter Load Lifting with Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15962  
**Abstract:** Enabling robots to understand language instructions and react accordingly to visual perception has been a long-standing goal in the robotics research community. Achieving this goal requires cutting-edge advances in natural language processing, computer vision, and robotics engineering. Thus, this paper mainly investigates the potential of integrating the most recent Large Language Models (LLMs) and existing visual grounding and robotic grasping system to enhance the effectiveness of the human-robot interaction. We introduce the WALL-E (Embodied Robotic WAiter load lifting with Large Language model) as an example of this integration. The system utilizes the LLM of ChatGPT to summarize the preference object of the users as a target instruction via the multi-round interactive dialogue. The target instruction is then forwarded to a visual grounding system for object pose and size estimation, following which the robot grasps the object accordingly. We deploy this LLM-empowered system on the physical robot to provide a more user-friendly interface for the instruction-guided grasping task. The further experimental results on various real-world scenarios demonstrated the feasibility and efficacy of our proposed framework. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** DiffuVolume: Diffusion Model for Volume based Stereo Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15989  
**Abstract:** Stereo matching is a significant part in many computer vision tasks and driving-based applications. Recently cost volume-based methods have achieved great success benefiting from the rich geometry information in paired images. However, the redundancy of cost volume also interferes with the model training and limits the performance. To construct a more precise cost volume, we pioneeringly apply the diffusion model to stereo matching. Our method, termed DiffuVolume, considers the diffusion model as a cost volume filter, which will recurrently remove the redundant information from the cost volume. Two main designs make our method not trivial. Firstly, to make the diffusion model more adaptive to stereo matching, we eschew the traditional manner of directly adding noise into the image but embed the diffusion model into a task-specific module. In this way, we outperform the traditional diffusion stereo matching method by 22% EPE improvement and 240 times inference acceleration. Secondly, DiffuVolume can be easily embedded into any volume-based stereo matching network with boost performance but slight parameters rise (only 2%). By adding the DiffuVolume into well-performed methods, we outperform all the published methods on Scene Flow, KITTI2012, KITTI2015 benchmarks and zero-shot generalization setting. It is worth mentioning that the proposed model ranks 1st on KITTI 2012 leader board, 2nd on KITTI 2015 leader board since 15, July 2023. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Dual-path Transformer Based Neural Beamformer for Target Speech  Extraction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15990  
**Abstract:** Neural beamformers, integrating both pre-separation and beamforming modules, have shown impressive efficacy in the target speech extraction task. Nevertheless, the performance of these beamformers is inherently constrained by the predictive accuracy of the pre-separation module. In this paper, we introduce a neural beamformer underpinned by a dual-path transformer. Initially, we harness the cross-attention mechanism in the time domain, extracting pivotal spatial information related to beamforming from the noisy covariance matrix. Subsequently, in the frequency domain, the self-attention mechanism is employed to bolster the model's capacity to process frequency-specific details. By design, our model circumvents the influence of pre-separation modules, delivering the performance in a more holistic end-to-end fashion. Experimental results reveal that our model not only surpasses contemporary leading neural beamforming algorithms in separation performance, but also achieves this with a notable reduction in parameter count. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** DTrOCR: Decoder-only Transformer for Optical Character Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15996  
**Abstract:** Typical text recognition methods rely on an encoder-decoder structure, in which the encoder extracts features from an image, and the decoder produces recognized text from these features. In this study, we propose a simpler and more effective method for text recognition, known as the Decoder-only Transformer for Optical Character Recognition (DTrOCR). This method uses a decoder-only Transformer to take advantage of a generative language model that is pre-trained on a large corpus. We examined whether a generative language model that has been successful in natural language processing can also be effective for text recognition in computer vision. Our experiments demonstrated that DTrOCR outperforms current state-of-the-art methods by a large margin in the recognition of printed, handwritten, and scene text in both English and Chinese. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** From Pixels to Portraits: A Comprehensive Survey of Talking Head  Generation Techniques and Applications  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16041  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in deep learning and computer vision have led to a surge of interest in generating realistic talking heads. This paper presents a comprehensive survey of state-of-the-art methods for talking head generation. We systematically categorises them into four main approaches: image-driven, audio-driven, video-driven and others (including neural radiance fields (NeRF), and 3D-based methods). We provide an in-depth analysis of each method, highlighting their unique contributions, strengths, and limitations. Furthermore, we thoroughly compare publicly available models, evaluating them on key aspects such as inference time and human-rated quality of the generated outputs. Our aim is to provide a clear and concise overview of the current landscape in talking head generation, elucidating the relationships between different approaches and identifying promising directions for future research. This survey will serve as a valuable reference for researchers and practitioners interested in this rapidly evolving field. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** SignDiff: Learning Diffusion Models for American Sign Language  Production  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16082  
**Abstract:** The field of Sign Language Production (SLP) lacked a large-scale, pre-trained model based on deep learning for continuous American Sign Language (ASL) production in the past decade. This limitation hampers communication for all individuals with disabilities relying on ASL. To address this issue, we undertook the secondary development and utilization of How2Sign, one of the largest publicly available ASL datasets. Despite its significance, prior researchers in the field of sign language have not effectively employed this corpus due to the intricacies involved in American Sign Language Production (ASLP). 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** Learned Image Reasoning Prior Penetrates Deep Unfolding Network for  Panchromatic and Multi-Spectral Image Fusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16083  
**Abstract:** The success of deep neural networks for pan-sharpening is commonly in a form of black box, lacking transparency and interpretability. To alleviate this issue, we propose a novel model-driven deep unfolding framework with image reasoning prior tailored for the pan-sharpening task. Different from existing unfolding solutions that deliver the proximal operator networks as the uncertain and vague priors, our framework is motivated by the content reasoning ability of masked autoencoders (MAE) with insightful designs. Specifically, the pre-trained MAE with spatial masking strategy, acting as intrinsic reasoning prior, is embedded into unfolding architecture. Meanwhile, the pre-trained MAE with spatial-spectral masking strategy is treated as the regularization term within loss function to constrain the spatial-spectral consistency. Such designs penetrate the image reasoning prior into deep unfolding networks while improving its interpretability and representation capability. The uniqueness of our framework is that the holistic learning process is explicitly integrated with the inherent physical mechanism underlying the pan-sharpening task. Extensive experiments on multiple satellite datasets demonstrate the superiority of our method over the existing state-of-the-art approaches. Code will be released at \url{https://manman1995.github.io/}. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Advanced Deep Regression Models for Forecasting Time Series Oil  Production  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16105  
**Abstract:** Global oil demand is rapidly increasing and is expected to reach 106.3 million barrels per day by 2040. Thus, it is vital for hydrocarbon extraction industries to forecast their production to optimize their operations and avoid losses. Big companies have realized that exploiting the power of deep learning (DL) and the massive amount of data from various oil wells for this purpose can save a lot of operational costs and reduce unwanted environmental impacts. In this direction, researchers have proposed models using conventional machine learning (ML) techniques for oil production forecasting. However, these techniques are inappropriate for this problem as they can not capture historical patterns found in time series data, resulting in inaccurate predictions. This research aims to overcome these issues by developing advanced data-driven regression models using sequential convolutions and long short-term memory (LSTM) units. Exhaustive analyses are conducted to select the optimal sequence length, model hyperparameters, and cross-well dataset formation to build highly generalized robust models. A comprehensive experimental study on Volve oilfield data validates the proposed models. It reveals that the LSTM-based sequence learning model can predict oil production better than the 1-D convolutional neural network (CNN) with mean absolute error (MAE) and R2 score of 111.16 and 0.98, respectively. It is also found that the LSTM-based model performs better than all the existing state-of-the-art solutions and achieves a 37% improvement compared to a standard linear regression, which is considered the baseline model in this work. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** Response: Emergent analogical reasoning in large language models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16118  
**Abstract:** In their recent Nature Human Behaviour paper, "Emergent analogical reasoning in large language models," (Webb, Holyoak, and Lu, 2023) the authors argue that "large language models such as GPT-3 have acquired an emergent ability to find zero-shot solutions to a broad range of analogy problems." In this response, we provide counterexamples of the letter string analogies. In our tests, GPT-3 fails to solve even the easiest variants of the problems presented in the original paper. Zero-shot reasoning is an extraordinary claim that requires extraordinary evidence. We do not see that evidence in our experiments. To strengthen claims of humanlike reasoning such as zero-shot reasoning, it is important that the field develop approaches that rule out data memorization. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** LM-Infinite: Simple On-the-Fly Length Generalization for Large Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16137  
**Abstract:** In recent years, there have been remarkable advancements in the performance of Transformer-based Large Language Models (LLMs) across various domains. As these LLMs are deployed for increasingly complex tasks, they often face the needs to conduct longer reasoning processes or understanding larger contexts. In these situations, the length generalization failure of LLMs on long sequences become more prominent. Most pre-training schemes truncate training sequences to a fixed length (such as 2048 for LLaMa). LLMs often struggle to generate fluent texts, let alone carry out downstream tasks, after longer contexts, even with relative positional encoding which is designed to cope with this problem. Common solutions such as finetuning on longer corpora often involves daunting hardware and time costs and requires careful training process design. To more efficiently leverage the generation capacity of existing LLMs, we theoretically and empirically investigate the main out-of-distribution (OOD) factors contributing to this problem. Inspired by this diagnosis, we propose a simple yet effective solution for on-the-fly length generalization, LM-Infinite, which involves only a $\Lambda$-shaped attention mask and a distance limit while requiring no parameter updates or learning. We find it applicable to a variety of LLMs using relative-position encoding methods. LM-Infinite is computational efficient with $O(n)$ time and space, and demonstrates consistent fluency and generation quality to as long as 32k tokens on ArXiv and OpenWebText2 datasets, with 2.72x decoding speedup. On downstream task such as passkey retrieval, it continues to work on inputs much longer than training lengths where vanilla models fail immediately. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** CircleFormer: Circular Nuclei Detection in Whole Slide Images with  Circle Queries and Attention  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16145  
**Abstract:** Both CNN-based and Transformer-based object detection with bounding box representation have been extensively studied in computer vision and medical image analysis, but circular object detection in medical images is still underexplored. Inspired by the recent anchor free CNN-based circular object detection method (CircleNet) for ball-shape glomeruli detection in renal pathology, in this paper, we present CircleFormer, a Transformer-based circular medical object detection with dynamic anchor circles. Specifically, queries with circle representation in Transformer decoder iteratively refine the circular object detection results, and a circle cross attention module is introduced to compute the similarity between circular queries and image features. A generalized circle IoU (gCIoU) is proposed to serve as a new regression loss of circular object detection as well. Moreover, our approach is easy to generalize to the segmentation task by adding a simple segmentation branch to CircleFormer. We evaluate our method in circular nuclei detection and segmentation on the public MoNuSeg dataset, and the experimental results show that our method achieves promising performance compared with the state-of-the-art approaches. The effectiveness of each component is validated via ablation studies as well. Our code is released at: \url{https://github.com/zhanghx-iim-ahu/CircleFormer}. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Jais and Jais-chat: Arabic-Centric Foundation and Instruction-Tuned Open  Generative Large Language Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16149  
**Abstract:** We introduce Jais and Jais-chat, new state-of-the-art Arabic-centric foundation and instruction-tuned open generative large language models (LLMs). The models are based on the GPT-3 decoder-only architecture and are pretrained on a mixture of Arabic and English texts, including source code in various programming languages. With 13 billion parameters, they demonstrate better knowledge and reasoning capabilities in Arabic than any existing open Arabic and multilingual models by a sizable margin, based on extensive evaluation. Moreover, the models are competitive in English compared to English-centric open models of similar size, despite being trained on much less English data. We provide a detailed description of the training, the tuning, the safety alignment, and the evaluation of the models. We release two open versions of the model -- the foundation Jais model, and an instruction-tuned Jais-chat variant -- with the aim of promoting research on Arabic LLMs. Available at https://huggingface.co/inception-mbzuai/jais-13b-chat 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Automatic assessment of text-based responses in post-secondary  education: A systematic review  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16151  
**Abstract:** Text-based open-ended questions in academic formative and summative assessments help students become deep learners and prepare them to understand concepts for a subsequent test conceptually. However, grading text-based questions, especially in large (>50 enrolled students) courses, is a tedious and time-costing process for instructors. Text processing models continue progressing with the rapid development of Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools and Natural Language Processing (NLP) algorithms. Especially after breakthroughs in Large Language Models (LLM), there is immense potential to automate rapid assessment and feedback of text-based responses in education. This systematic review adopts a scientific and reproducible literature search strategy based on the PRISMA process using explicit inclusion and exclusion criteria to study text-based automatic assessment systems in post-secondary education, screening 838 papers and synthesizing 93 studies. To understand how text-based automatic assessment systems have been developed and applied in education in recent years, all included studies are summarized and categorized according to a proposed comprehensive theoretical framework, including the input and output of the automatic assessment system, research motivation, and research outcome, aiming to answer three research questions accordingly. Additionally, the typical studies of automated assessment systems and application domains in these studies are investigated and summarized. This systematic review will provide an overview of recent educational applications of text-based assessment systems for understanding the latest AI/NLP developments assisting in text-based assessments in higher education. We expect it will particularly benefit researchers and educators incorporating LLMs such as ChatGPT into their educational activities. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Quantifying Uncertainty in Answers from any Language Model via Intrinsic  and Extrinsic Confidence Assessment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16175  
**Abstract:** We introduce BSDetector, a method for detecting bad and speculative answers from a pretrained Large Language Model by estimating a numeric confidence score for any output it generated. Our uncertainty quantification technique works for any LLM accessible only via a black-box API, and combines intrinsic and extrinsic assessments of confidence into a single trustworthiness estimate for any LLM response to a given prompt. Our method is extremely general and can applied to all of the best LLMs available today (whose training data remains unknown). By expending a bit of extra computation, users of any LLM API can now get the same response as they would ordinarily, as well as a confidence estimate that caution when not to trust this response. Experiments on both closed and open-form Question-Answer benchmarks reveal that BSDetector more accurately identifies incorrect LLM responses than alternative uncertainty estimation procedures (for both GPT-3 and ChatGPT). By sampling multiple responses from the LLM and considering the one with the highest confidence score, we can additionally obtain more accurate responses from the same LLM, without any extra training steps. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** SA Unet Improved  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15487  
**Abstract:** Retinal vessels segmentation is well known problem in image processing on the medical field. Good segmentation may help doctors take better decisions while diagnose eyes disuses. This paper describes our work taking up the DRIVE challenge which include segmentation on retinal vessels. We invented a new method which combine using of StyleGAN2 and SA-Unet. Our innovation can help any small data set segmentation problem. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** Learning Sequential Information in Task-based fMRI for Synthetic Data  Augmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15564  
**Abstract:** Insufficiency of training data is a persistent issue in medical image analysis, especially for task-based functional magnetic resonance images (fMRI) with spatio-temporal imaging data acquired using specific cognitive tasks. In this paper, we propose an approach for generating synthetic fMRI sequences that can then be used to create augmented training datasets in downstream learning tasks. To synthesize high-resolution task-specific fMRI, we adapt the $\alpha$-GAN structure, leveraging advantages of both GAN and variational autoencoder models, and propose different alternatives in aggregating temporal information. The synthetic images are evaluated from multiple perspectives including visualizations and an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) classification task. The results show that the synthetic task-based fMRI can provide effective data augmentation in learning the ASD classification task. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Stage-by-stage Wavelet Optimization Refinement Diffusion Model for  Sparse-View CT Reconstruction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15942  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have emerged as potential tools to tackle the challenge of sparse-view CT reconstruction, displaying superior performance compared to conventional methods. Nevertheless, these prevailing diffusion models predominantly focus on the sinogram or image domains, which can lead to instability during model training, potentially culminating in convergence towards local minimal solutions. The wavelet trans-form serves to disentangle image contents and features into distinct frequency-component bands at varying scales, adeptly capturing diverse directional structures. Employing the Wavelet transform as a guiding sparsity prior significantly enhances the robustness of diffusion models. In this study, we present an innovative approach named the Stage-by-stage Wavelet Optimization Refinement Diffusion (SWORD) model for sparse-view CT reconstruction. Specifically, we establish a unified mathematical model integrating low-frequency and high-frequency generative models, achieving the solution with optimization procedure. Furthermore, we perform the low-frequency and high-frequency generative models on wavelet's decomposed components rather than sinogram or image domains, ensuring the stability of model training. Our method rooted in established optimization theory, comprising three distinct stages, including low-frequency generation, high-frequency refinement and domain transform. Our experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods both quantitatively and qualitatively. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** The DeepZen Speech Synthesis System for Blizzard Challenge 2023  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.15945  
**Abstract:** This paper describes the DeepZen text to speech (TTS) system for Blizzard Challenge 2023. The goal of this challenge is to synthesise natural and high-quality speech in French, from a large monospeaker dataset (hub task) and from a smaller dataset by speaker adaptation (spoke task). We participated to both tasks with the same model architecture. Our approach has been to use an auto-regressive model, which retains an advantage for generating natural sounding speech but to improve prosodic control in several ways. Similarly to non-attentive Tacotron, the model uses a duration predictor and gaussian upsampling at inference, but with a simpler unsupervised training. We also model the speaking style at both sentence and word levels by extracting global and local style tokens from the reference speech. At inference, the global and local style tokens are predicted from a BERT model run on text. This BERT model is also used to predict specific pronunciation features like schwa elision and optional liaisons. Finally, a modified version of HifiGAN trained on a large public dataset and fine-tuned on the target voices is used to generate speech waveform. Our team is identified as O in the the Blizzard evaluation and MUSHRA test results show that our system performs second ex aequo in both hub task (median score of 0.75) and spoke task (median score of 0.68), over 18 and 14 participants, respectively. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** Modality Cycles with Masked Conditional Diffusion for Unsupervised  Anomaly Segmentation in MRI  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.16150  
**Abstract:** Unsupervised anomaly segmentation aims to detect patterns that are distinct from any patterns processed during training, commonly called abnormal or out-of-distribution patterns, without providing any associated manual segmentations. Since anomalies during deployment can lead to model failure, detecting the anomaly can enhance the reliability of models, which is valuable in high-risk domains like medical imaging. This paper introduces Masked Modality Cycles with Conditional Diffusion (MMCCD), a method that enables segmentation of anomalies across diverse patterns in multimodal MRI. The method is based on two fundamental ideas. First, we propose the use of cyclic modality translation as a mechanism for enabling abnormality detection. Image-translation models learn tissue-specific modality mappings, which are characteristic of tissue physiology. Thus, these learned mappings fail to translate tissues or image patterns that have never been encountered during training, and the error enables their segmentation. Furthermore, we combine image translation with a masked conditional diffusion model, which attempts to `imagine' what tissue exists under a masked area, further exposing unknown patterns as the generative model fails to recreate them. We evaluate our method on a proxy task by training on healthy-looking slices of BraTS2021 multi-modality MRIs and testing on slices with tumors. We show that our method compares favorably to previous unsupervised approaches based on image reconstruction and denoising with autoencoders and diffusion models. 

