**ID:** 1  
**Title:** DeepSpeed-Chat: Easy, Fast and Affordable RLHF Training of ChatGPT-like  Models at All Scales  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01320  
**Abstract:** ChatGPT-like models have revolutionized various applications in artificial intelligence, from summarization and coding to translation, matching or even surpassing human performance. However, the current landscape lacks an accessible, efficient, and cost-effective end-to-end RLHF (Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback) training pipeline for these powerful models, particularly when training at the scale of billions of parameters. This paper introduces DeepSpeed-Chat, a novel system that democratizes RLHF training, making it accessible to the AI community. DeepSpeed-Chat offers three key capabilities: an easy-to-use training and inference experience for ChatGPT-like models, a DeepSpeed-RLHF pipeline that replicates the training pipeline from InstructGPT, and a robust DeepSpeed-RLHF system that combines various optimizations for training and inference in a unified way. The system delivers unparalleled efficiency and scalability, enabling training of models with hundreds of billions of parameters in record time and at a fraction of the cost. With this development, DeepSpeed-Chat paves the way for broader access to advanced RLHF training, even for data scientists with limited resources, thereby fostering innovation and further development in the field of AI. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Optimizing Machine Translation through Prompt Engineering: An  Investigation into ChatGPT's Customizability  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01391  
**Abstract:** This paper explores the influence of integrating the purpose of the translation and the target audience into prompts on the quality of translations produced by ChatGPT. Drawing on previous translation studies, industry practices, and ISO standards, the research underscores the significance of the pre-production phase in the translation process. The study reveals that the inclusion of suitable prompts in large-scale language models like ChatGPT can yield flexible translations, a feat yet to be realized by conventional Machine Translation (MT). The research scrutinizes the changes in translation quality when prompts are used to generate translations that meet specific conditions. The evaluation is conducted from a practicing translator's viewpoint, both subjectively and qualitatively, supplemented by the use of OpenAI's word embedding API for cosine similarity calculations. The findings suggest that the integration of the purpose and target audience into prompts can indeed modify the generated translations, generally enhancing the translation quality by industry standards. The study also demonstrates the practical application of the "good translation" concept, particularly in the context of marketing documents and culturally dependent idioms. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Hoodwinked: Deception and Cooperation in a Text-Based Game for Language  Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01404  
**Abstract:** Are current language models capable of deception and lie detection? We study this question by introducing a text-based game called $\textit{Hoodwinked}$, inspired by $\textit{Mafia}$ and $\textit{Among Us}$. Players are locked in a house and must find a key to escape, but one player is tasked with killing the others. Each time a murder is committed, the surviving players have a natural language discussion then vote to banish one player from the game. We conduct experiments with agents controlled by GPT-3, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4 and find evidence of deception and lie detection capabilities. The killer often denies their crime and accuses others, leading to measurable effects on voting outcomes. More advanced models are more effective killers, outperforming smaller models in 18 of 24 pairwise comparisons. Secondary metrics provide evidence that this improvement is not mediated by different actions, but rather by stronger deception capabilities during discussions. Overall, we find substantial evidence that current language models are capable of deception. To better evaluate the ability of AI agents to deceive humans, we make this game publicly available at https://hoodwinked.ai/ . 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** UPB at IberLEF-2023 AuTexTification: Detection of Machine-Generated Text  using Transformer Ensembles  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01408  
**Abstract:** This paper describes the solutions submitted by the UPB team to the AuTexTification shared task, featured as part of IberLEF-2023. Our team participated in the first subtask, identifying text documents produced by large language models instead of humans. The organizers provided a bilingual dataset for this subtask, comprising English and Spanish texts covering multiple domains, such as legal texts, social media posts, and how-to articles. We experimented mostly with deep learning models based on Transformers, as well as training techniques such as multi-task learning and virtual adversarial training to obtain better results. We submitted three runs, two of which consisted of ensemble models. Our best-performing model achieved macro F1-scores of 66.63% on the English dataset and 67.10% on the Spanish dataset. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** LaFiCMIL: Rethinking Large File Classification from the Perspective of  Correlated Multiple Instance Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01413  
**Abstract:** Transformer-based models have revolutionized the performance of a wide range of language tasks. Intuitively, one might expect text classification, which does not necessitate as many high-level representations as generative tasks, to be comprehensively addressed with the powerful representation capabilities of Transformers. However, in reality, there remains significant potential for enhancement, particularly in the areas of multi-class and multi-label classification of lengthy textual documents and other large files. The performance of Transformer-based models is mainly hindered by a major limitation: a restricted input length, e.g., 512 tokens for BERT. While an increase in GPU memory can marginally extend this limit, practical real-world applications often operate under constrained GPU resources. In this work, we tackle the input limit problem from the perspective of correlated multiple instance learning. The proposed approach, LaFiCMIL, serves as a versatile framework applicable to various large file classification tasks covering binary, multi-class, and multi-label classification tasks, spanning various domains including Natural Language Processing, Programming Language Processing, and Android Analysis. To evaluate its effectiveness, we employ eight benchmark datasets pertaining to Long Document Classification, Code Defect Detection, and Android Malware Detection. Leveraging BERT-family models as feature extractors, our experimental results demonstrate that LaFiCMIL achieves new state-of-the-art performance across all benchmark datasets. This is largely attributable to its capability of scaling BERT up to nearly 20K tokens, running on a single Tesla V-100 GPU with 32G of memory. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** HouYi: An open-source large language model specially designed for  renewable energy and carbon neutrality field  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01414  
**Abstract:** Renewable energy is important for achieving carbon neutrality goal. With the great success of Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT in automatic content generation, LLMs are playing an increasingly important role. However, there has not been a specially designed LLM for renewable energy. Meanwhile, there has not been any dataset of renewable energy for training LLMs. Therefore, this paper published the first open-source Renewable Energy Academic Paper (REAP) dataset for non-commercial LLM research of renewable energy. REAP dataset is collected through searching the title and abstract of 1,168,970 academic literatures from Web of Science. Based on REAP dataset, HouYi model, the first LLM for renewable energy, is developed through finetuning general LLMs. HouYi demonstrated powerful academic paper paragraph generation ability in renewable energy field. Experiments show that its ability to generate academic papers on renewable energy is comparable to ChatGPT, slightly outperforms Claude, ERNIE Bot and SparkDesk, and significantly outperforms open-source LLaMA-13B model. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** An Effective Data Creation Pipeline to Generate High-quality Financial  Instruction Data for Large Language Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01415  
**Abstract:** At the beginning era of large language model, it is quite critical to generate a high-quality financial dataset to fine-tune a large language model for financial related tasks. Thus, this paper presents a carefully designed data creation pipeline for this purpose. Particularly, we initiate a dialogue between an AI investor and financial expert using ChatGPT and incorporate the feedback of human financial experts, leading to the refinement of the dataset. This pipeline yielded a robust instruction tuning dataset comprised of 103k multi-turn chats. Extensive experiments have been conducted on this dataset to evaluate the model's performance by adopting an external GPT-4 as the judge. The promising experimental results verify that our approach led to significant advancements in generating accurate, relevant, and financial-style responses from AI models, and thus providing a powerful tool for applications within the financial sector. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** FinVis-GPT: A Multimodal Large Language Model for Financial Chart  Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01430  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we propose FinVis-GPT, a novel multimodal large language model (LLM) specifically designed for financial chart analysis. By leveraging the power of LLMs and incorporating instruction tuning and multimodal capabilities, FinVis-GPT is capable of interpreting financial charts and providing valuable analysis. To train FinVis-GPT, a financial task oriented dataset was generated for pre-training alignment and instruction tuning, comprising various types of financial charts and their corresponding descriptions. We evaluate the model performance via several case studies due to the time limit, and the promising results demonstrated that FinVis-GPT is superior in various financial chart related tasks, including generating descriptions, answering questions and predicting future market trends, surpassing existing state-of-the-art multimodal LLMs. The proposed FinVis-GPT serves as a pioneering effort in utilizing multimodal LLMs in the finance domain and our generated dataset will be release for public use in the near future to speedup related research. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Novel Physics-Based Machine-Learning Models for Indoor Air Quality  Approximations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01438  
**Abstract:** Cost-effective sensors are capable of real-time capturing a variety of air quality-related modalities from different pollutant concentrations to indoor/outdoor humidity and temperature. Machine learning (ML) models are capable of performing air-quality "ahead-of-time" approximations. Undoubtedly, accurate indoor air quality approximation significantly helps provide a healthy indoor environment, optimize associated energy consumption, and offer human comfort. However, it is crucial to design an ML architecture to capture the domain knowledge, so-called problem physics. In this study, we propose six novel physics-based ML models for accurate indoor pollutant concentration approximations. The proposed models include an adroit combination of state-space concepts in physics, Gated Recurrent Units, and Decomposition techniques. The proposed models were illustrated using data collected from five offices in a commercial building in California. The proposed models are shown to be less complex, computationally more efficient, and more accurate than similar state-of-the-art transformer-based models. The superiority of the proposed models is due to their relatively light architecture (computational efficiency) and, more importantly, their ability to capture the underlying highly nonlinear patterns embedded in the often contaminated sensor-collected indoor air quality temporal data. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Reverse Stable Diffusion: What prompt was used to generate this image?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01472  
**Abstract:** Text-to-image diffusion models such as Stable Diffusion have recently attracted the interest of many researchers, and inverting the diffusion process can play an important role in better understanding the generative process and how to engineer prompts in order to obtain the desired images. To this end, we introduce the new task of predicting the text prompt given an image generated by a generative diffusion model. We combine a series of white-box and black-box models (with and without access to the weights of the diffusion network) to deal with the proposed task. We propose a novel learning framework comprising of a joint prompt regression and multi-label vocabulary classification objective that generates improved prompts. To further improve our method, we employ a curriculum learning procedure that promotes the learning of image-prompt pairs with lower labeling noise (i.e. that are better aligned), and an unsupervised domain-adaptive kernel learning method that uses the similarities between samples in the source and target domains as extra features. We conduct experiments on the DiffusionDB data set, predicting text prompts from images generated by Stable Diffusion. Our novel learning framework produces excellent results on the aforementioned task, yielding the highest gains when applied on the white-box model. In addition, we make an interesting discovery: training a diffusion model on the prompt generation task can make the model generate images that are much better aligned with the input prompts, when the model is directly reused for text-to-image generation. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** Target-point Attention Transformer: A novel trajectory predict network  for end-to-end autonomous driving  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01496  
**Abstract:** In the field of autonomous driving, there have been many excellent perception models for object detection, semantic segmentation, and other tasks, but how can we effectively use the perception models for vehicle planning? Traditional autonomous vehicle trajectory prediction methods not only need to obey traffic rules to avoid collisions, but also need to follow the prescribed route to reach the destination. In this paper, we propose a Transformer-based trajectory prediction network for end-to-end autonomous driving without rules called Target-point Attention Transformer network (TAT). We use the attention mechanism to realize the interaction between the predicted trajectory and the perception features as well as target-points. We demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms existing conditional imitation learning and GRU-based methods, significantly reducing the occurrence of accidents and improving route completion. We evaluate our approach in complex closed loop driving scenarios in cities using the CARLA simulator and achieve state-of-the-art performance. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Large Language Model Displays Emergent Ability to Interpret Novel  Literary Metaphors  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01497  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in the performance of large language models (LLMs) have sparked debate over whether, given sufficient training, high-level human abilities emerge in such generic forms of artificial intelligence (AI). Despite the exceptional performance of LLMs on a wide range of tasks involving natural language processing and reasoning, there has been sharp disagreement as to whether their abilities extend to more creative human abilities. A core example is the ability to interpret novel metaphors. Given the enormous and non-curated text corpora used to train LLMs, a serious obstacle to designing tests is the requirement of finding novel yet high-quality metaphors that are unlikely to have been included in the training data. Here we assessed the ability of GPT-4, a state-of-the-art large language model, to provide natural-language interpretations of novel literary metaphors drawn from Serbian poetry and translated into English. Despite exhibiting no signs of having been exposed to these metaphors previously, the AI system consistently produced detailed and incisive interpretations. Human judge - blind to the fact that an AI model was involved - rated metaphor interpretations generated by GPT-4 as superior to those provided by a group of college students. In interpreting reversed metaphors, GPT-4, as well as humans, exhibited signs of sensitivity to the Gricean cooperative principle. These results indicate that LLMs such as GPT-4 have acquired an emergent ability to interpret complex novel metaphors. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** Data Augmentation for Human Behavior Analysis in Multi-Person  Conversations  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01526  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we present the solution of our team HFUT-VUT for the MultiMediate Grand Challenge 2023 at ACM Multimedia 2023. The solution covers three sub-challenges: bodily behavior recognition, eye contact detection, and next speaker prediction. We select Swin Transformer as the baseline and exploit data augmentation strategies to address the above three tasks. Specifically, we crop the raw video to remove the noise from other parts. At the same time, we utilize data augmentation to improve the generalization of the model. As a result, our solution achieves the best results of 0.6262 for bodily behavior recognition in terms of mean average precision and the accuracy of 0.7771 for eye contact detection on the corresponding test set. In addition, our approach also achieves comparable results of 0.5281 for the next speaker prediction in terms of unweighted average recall. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Multimodal Adaptation of CLIP for Few-Shot Action Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01532  
**Abstract:** Applying large-scale pre-trained visual models like CLIP to few-shot action recognition tasks can benefit performance and efficiency. Utilizing the "pre-training, fine-tuning" paradigm makes it possible to avoid training a network from scratch, which can be time-consuming and resource-intensive. However, this method has two drawbacks. First, limited labeled samples for few-shot action recognition necessitate minimizing the number of tunable parameters to mitigate over-fitting, also leading to inadequate fine-tuning that increases resource consumption and may disrupt the generalized representation of models. Second, the video's extra-temporal dimension challenges few-shot recognition's effective temporal modeling, while pre-trained visual models are usually image models. This paper proposes a novel method called Multimodal Adaptation of CLIP (MA-CLIP) to address these issues. It adapts CLIP for few-shot action recognition by adding lightweight adapters, which can minimize the number of learnable parameters and enable the model to transfer across different tasks quickly. The adapters we design can combine information from video-text multimodal sources for task-oriented spatiotemporal modeling, which is fast, efficient, and has low training costs. Additionally, based on the attention mechanism, we design a text-guided prototype construction module that can fully utilize video-text information to enhance the representation of video prototypes. Our MA-CLIP is plug-and-play, which can be used in any different few-shot action recognition temporal alignment metric. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Comparing scalable strategies for generating numerical perspectives  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01535  
**Abstract:** Numerical perspectives help people understand extreme and unfamiliar numbers (e.g., \$330 billion is about \$1,000 per person in the United States). While research shows perspectives to be helpful, generating them at scale is challenging both because it is difficult to identify what makes some analogies more helpful than others, and because what is most helpful can vary based on the context in which a given number appears. Here we present and compare three policies for large-scale perspective generation: a rule-based approach, a crowdsourced system, and a model that uses Wikipedia data and semantic similarity (via BERT embeddings) to generate context-specific perspectives. We find that the combination of these three approaches dominates any single method, with different approaches excelling in different settings and users displaying heterogeneous preferences across approaches. We conclude by discussing our deployment of perspectives in a widely-used online word processor. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** MFIM: Megapixel Facial Identity Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01536  
**Abstract:** Face swapping is a task that changes a facial identity of a given image to that of another person. In this work, we propose a novel face-swapping framework called Megapixel Facial Identity Manipulation (MFIM). The face-swapping model should achieve two goals. First, it should be able to generate a high-quality image. We argue that a model which is proficient in generating a megapixel image can achieve this goal. However, generating a megapixel image is generally difficult without careful model design. Therefore, our model exploits pretrained StyleGAN in the manner of GAN-inversion to effectively generate a megapixel image. Second, it should be able to effectively transform the identity of a given image. Specifically, it should be able to actively transform ID attributes (e.g., face shape and eyes) of a given image into those of another person, while preserving ID-irrelevant attributes (e.g., pose and expression). To achieve this goal, we exploit 3DMM that can capture various facial attributes. Specifically, we explicitly supervise our model to generate a face-swapped image with the desirable attributes using 3DMM. We show that our model achieves state-of-the-art performance through extensive experiments. Furthermore, we propose a new operation called ID mixing, which creates a new identity by semantically mixing the identities of several people. It allows the user to customize the new identity. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** Multimodal Neurons in Pretrained Text-Only Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01544  
**Abstract:** Language models demonstrate remarkable capacity to generalize representations learned in one modality to downstream tasks in other modalities. Can we trace this ability to individual neurons? We study the case where a frozen text transformer is augmented with vision using a self-supervised visual encoder and a single linear projection learned on an image-to-text task. Outputs of the projection layer are not immediately decodable into language describing image content; instead, we find that translation between modalities occurs deeper within the transformer. We introduce a procedure for identifying "multimodal neurons" that convert visual representations into corresponding text, and decoding the concepts they inject into the model's residual stream. In a series of experiments, we show that multimodal neurons operate on specific visual concepts across inputs, and have a systematic causal effect on image captioning. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** MusicLDM: Enhancing Novelty in Text-to-Music Generation Using  Beat-Synchronous Mixup Strategies  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01546  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models have shown promising results in cross-modal generation tasks, including text-to-image and text-to-audio generation. However, generating music, as a special type of audio, presents unique challenges due to limited availability of music data and sensitive issues related to copyright and plagiarism. In this paper, to tackle these challenges, we first construct a state-of-the-art text-to-music model, MusicLDM, that adapts Stable Diffusion and AudioLDM architectures to the music domain. We achieve this by retraining the contrastive language-audio pretraining model (CLAP) and the Hifi-GAN vocoder, as components of MusicLDM, on a collection of music data samples. Then, to address the limitations of training data and to avoid plagiarism, we leverage a beat tracking model and propose two different mixup strategies for data augmentation: beat-synchronous audio mixup and beat-synchronous latent mixup, which recombine training audio directly or via a latent embeddings space, respectively. Such mixup strategies encourage the model to interpolate between musical training samples and generate new music within the convex hull of the training data, making the generated music more diverse while still staying faithful to the corresponding style. In addition to popular evaluation metrics, we design several new evaluation metrics based on CLAP score to demonstrate that our proposed MusicLDM and beat-synchronous mixup strategies improve both the quality and novelty of generated music, as well as the correspondence between input text and generated music. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** InterAct: Exploring the Potentials of ChatGPT as a Cooperative Agent  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01552  
**Abstract:** This research paper delves into the integration of OpenAI's ChatGPT into embodied agent systems, evaluating its influence on interactive decision-making benchmark. Drawing a parallel to the concept of people assuming roles according to their unique strengths, we introduce InterAct. In this approach, we feed ChatGPT with varied prompts, assigning it a numerous roles like a checker and a sorter, then integrating them with the original language model. Our research shows a remarkable success rate of 98% in AlfWorld, which consists of 6 different tasks in a simulated household environment, emphasizing the significance of proficient prompt engineering. The results highlight ChatGPT's competence in comprehending and performing intricate tasks effectively in real-world settings, thus paving the way for further advancements in task planning. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** Mani-GPT: A Generative Model for Interactive Robotic Manipulation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01555  
**Abstract:** In real-world scenarios, human dialogues are multi-round and diverse. Furthermore, human instructions can be unclear and human responses are unrestricted. Interactive robots face difficulties in understanding human intents and generating suitable strategies for assisting individuals through manipulation. In this article, we propose Mani-GPT, a Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) for interactive robotic manipulation. The proposed model has the ability to understand the environment through object information, understand human intent through dialogues, generate natural language responses to human input, and generate appropriate manipulation plans to assist the human. This makes the human-robot interaction more natural and humanized. In our experiment, Mani-GPT outperforms existing algorithms with an accuracy of 84.6% in intent recognition and decision-making for actions. Furthermore, it demonstrates satisfying performance in real-world dialogue tests with users, achieving an average response accuracy of 70%. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Motion Planning Diffusion: Learning and Planning of Robot Motions with  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01557  
**Abstract:** Learning priors on trajectory distributions can help accelerate robot motion planning optimization. Given previously successful plans, learning trajectory generative models as priors for a new planning problem is highly desirable. Prior works propose several ways on utilizing this prior to bootstrapping the motion planning problem. Either sampling the prior for initializations or using the prior distribution in a maximum-a-posterior formulation for trajectory optimization. In this work, we propose learning diffusion models as priors. We then can sample directly from the posterior trajectory distribution conditioned on task goals, by leveraging the inverse denoising process of diffusion models. Furthermore, diffusion has been recently shown to effectively encode data multimodality in high-dimensional settings, which is particularly well-suited for large trajectory dataset. To demonstrate our method efficacy, we compare our proposed method - Motion Planning Diffusion - against several baselines in simulated planar robot and 7-dof robot arm manipulator environments. To assess the generalization capabilities of our method, we test it in environments with previously unseen obstacles. Our experiments show that diffusion models are strong priors to encode high-dimensional trajectory distributions of robot motions. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Adversarial Training of Denoising Diffusion Model Using Dual  Discriminators for High-Fidelity Multi-Speaker TTS  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01573  
**Abstract:** The diffusion model is capable of generating high-quality data through a probabilistic approach. However, it suffers from the drawback of slow generation speed due to the requirement of a large number of time steps. To address this limitation, recent models such as denoising diffusion implicit models (DDIM) focus on generating samples without directly modeling the probability distribution, while models like denoising diffusion generative adversarial networks (GAN) combine diffusion processes with GANs. In the field of speech synthesis, a recent diffusion speech synthesis model called DiffGAN-TTS, utilizing the structure of GANs, has been introduced and demonstrates superior performance in both speech quality and generation speed. In this paper, to further enhance the performance of DiffGAN-TTS, we propose a speech synthesis model with two discriminators: a diffusion discriminator for learning the distribution of the reverse process and a spectrogram discriminator for learning the distribution of the generated data. Objective metrics such as structural similarity index measure (SSIM), mel-cepstral distortion (MCD), F0 root mean squared error (F0 RMSE), short-time objective intelligibility (STOI), perceptual evaluation of speech quality (PESQ), as well as subjective metrics like mean opinion score (MOS), are used to evaluate the performance of the proposed model. The evaluation results show that the proposed model outperforms recent state-of-the-art models such as FastSpeech2 and DiffGAN-TTS in various metrics. Our implementation and audio samples are located on GitHub. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Holy Grail 2.0: From Natural Language to Constraint Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01589  
**Abstract:** Twenty-seven years ago, E. Freuder highlighted that "Constraint programming represents one of the closest approaches computer science has yet made to the Holy Grail of programming: the user states the problem, the computer solves it". Nowadays, CP users have great modeling tools available (like Minizinc and CPMpy), allowing them to formulate the problem and then let a solver do the rest of the job, getting closer to the stated goal. However, this still requires the CP user to know the formalism and respect it. Another significant challenge lies in the expertise required to effectively model combinatorial problems. All this limits the wider adoption of CP. In this position paper, we investigate a possible approach to leverage pre-trained Large Language Models to extract models from textual problem descriptions. More specifically, we take inspiration from the Natural Language Processing for Optimization (NL4OPT) challenge and present early results with a decomposition-based prompting approach to GPT Models. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Reference-Free Isotropic 3D EM Reconstruction using Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01594  
**Abstract:** Electron microscopy (EM) images exhibit anisotropic axial resolution due to the characteristics inherent to the imaging modality, presenting challenges in analysis and downstream tasks.In this paper, we propose a diffusion-model-based framework that overcomes the limitations of requiring reference data or prior knowledge about the degradation process. Our approach utilizes 2D diffusion models to consistently reconstruct 3D volumes and is well-suited for highly downsampled data. Extensive experiments conducted on two public datasets demonstrate the robustness and superiority of leveraging the generative prior compared to supervised learning methods. Additionally, we demonstrate our method's feasibility for self-supervised reconstruction, which can restore a single anisotropic volume without any training data. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** ReIDTrack: Multi-Object Track and Segmentation Without Motion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01622  
**Abstract:** In recent years, dominant Multi-object tracking (MOT) and segmentation (MOTS) methods mainly follow the tracking-by-detection paradigm. Transformer-based end-to-end (E2E) solutions bring some ideas to MOT and MOTS, but they cannot achieve a new state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in major MOT and MOTS benchmarks. Detection and association are two main modules of the tracking-by-detection paradigm. Association techniques mainly depend on the combination of motion and appearance information. As deep learning has been recently developed, the performance of the detection and appearance model is rapidly improved. These trends made us consider whether we can achieve SOTA based on only high-performance detection and appearance model. Our paper mainly focuses on exploring this direction based on CBNetV2 with Swin-B as a detection model and MoCo-v2 as a self-supervised appearance model. Motion information and IoU mapping were removed during the association. Our method wins 1st place on the MOTS track and wins 2nd on the MOT track in the CVPR2023 WAD workshop. We hope our simple and effective method can give some insights to the MOT and MOTS research community. Source code will be released under this git repository 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** DiffColor: Toward High Fidelity Text-Guided Image Colorization with  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01655  
**Abstract:** Recent data-driven image colorization methods have enabled automatic or reference-based colorization, while still suffering from unsatisfactory and inaccurate object-level color control. To address these issues, we propose a new method called DiffColor that leverages the power of pre-trained diffusion models to recover vivid colors conditioned on a prompt text, without any additional inputs. DiffColor mainly contains two stages: colorization with generative color prior and in-context controllable colorization. Specifically, we first fine-tune a pre-trained text-to-image model to generate colorized images using a CLIP-based contrastive loss. Then we try to obtain an optimized text embedding aligning the colorized image and the text prompt, and a fine-tuned diffusion model enabling high-quality image reconstruction. Our method can produce vivid and diverse colors with a few iterations, and keep the structure and background intact while having colors well-aligned with the target language guidance. Moreover, our method allows for in-context colorization, i.e., producing different colorization results by modifying prompt texts without any fine-tuning, and can achieve object-level controllable colorization results. Extensive experiments and user studies demonstrate that DiffColor outperforms previous works in terms of visual quality, color fidelity, and diversity of colorization options. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** Evaluating ChatGPT text-mining of clinical records for obesity  monitoring  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01666  
**Abstract:** Background: Veterinary clinical narratives remain a largely untapped resource for addressing complex diseases. Here we compare the ability of a large language model (ChatGPT) and a previously developed regular expression (RegexT) to identify overweight body condition scores (BCS) in veterinary narratives. Methods: BCS values were extracted from 4,415 anonymised clinical narratives using either RegexT or by appending the narrative to a prompt sent to ChatGPT coercing the model to return the BCS information. Data were manually reviewed for comparison. Results: The precision of RegexT was higher (100%, 95% CI 94.81-100%) than the ChatGPT (89.3%; 95% CI82.75-93.64%). However, the recall of ChatGPT (100%. 95% CI 96.18-100%) was considerably higher than that of RegexT (72.6%, 95% CI 63.92-79.94%). Limitations: Subtle prompt engineering is needed to improve ChatGPT output. Conclusions: Large language models create diverse opportunities and, whilst complex, present an intuitive interface to information but require careful implementation to avoid unpredictable errors. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** NBIAS: A Natural Language Processing Framework for Bias Identification  in Text  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01681  
**Abstract:** Bias in textual data can lead to skewed interpretations and outcomes when the data is used. These biases could perpetuate stereotypes, discrimination, or other forms of unfair treatment. An algorithm trained on biased data ends up making decisions that disproportionately impact a certain group of people. Therefore, it is crucial to detect and remove these biases to ensure the fair and ethical use of data. To this end, we develop a comprehensive and robust framework \textsc{Nbias} that consists of a data layer, corpus contruction, model development layer and an evaluation layer. The dataset is constructed by collecting diverse data from various fields, including social media, healthcare, and job hiring portals. As such, we applied a transformer-based token classification model that is able to identify bias words/ phrases through a unique named entity. In the assessment procedure, we incorporate a blend of quantitative and qualitative evaluations to gauge the effectiveness of our models. We achieve accuracy improvements ranging from 1% to 8% compared to baselines. We are also able to generate a robust understanding of the model functioning, capturing not only numerical data but also the quality and intricacies of its performance. The proposed approach is applicable to a variety of biases and contributes to the fair and ethical use of textual data. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Baby's CoThought: Leveraging Large Language Models for Enhanced  Reasoning in Compact Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01684  
**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate remarkable performance on a variety of Natural Language Understanding (NLU) tasks, primarily due to their in-context learning ability. This ability is utilized in our proposed "CoThought" pipeline, which efficiently trains smaller "baby" language models (BabyLMs) by leveraging the Chain of Thought (CoT) prompting of LLMs. Our pipeline restructures a dataset of less than 100M in size using GPT-3.5-turbo, transforming it into task-oriented, human-readable texts that are comparable to the school texts for language learners. The BabyLM is then pretrained on this restructured dataset in a RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) fashion. In evaluations across 4 benchmarks, our BabyLM outperforms the RoBERTa-base in 10 linguistic, NLU, and question answering tasks by more than 3 points, showing superior ability to extract contextual information. These results suggest that compact LMs pretrained on small, LLM-restructured data can better understand tasks and achieve improved performance. The code for data processing and model training is available at: https://github.com/oooranz/Baby-CoThought. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Local Large Language Models for Complex Structured Medical Tasks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01727  
**Abstract:** This paper introduces an approach that combines the language reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) with the benefits of local training to tackle complex, domain-specific tasks. Specifically, the authors demonstrate their approach by extracting structured condition codes from pathology reports. The proposed approach utilizes local LLMs, which can be fine-tuned to respond to specific generative instructions and provide structured outputs. The authors collected a dataset of over 150k uncurated surgical pathology reports, containing gross descriptions, final diagnoses, and condition codes. They trained different model architectures, including LLaMA, BERT and LongFormer and evaluated their performance. The results show that the LLaMA-based models significantly outperform BERT-style models across all evaluated metrics, even with extremely reduced precision. The LLaMA models performed especially well with large datasets, demonstrating their ability to handle complex, multi-label tasks. Overall, this work presents an effective approach for utilizing LLMs to perform domain-specific tasks using accessible hardware, with potential applications in the medical domain, where complex data extraction and classification are required. 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Ambient Adventures: Teaching ChatGPT on Developing Complex Stories  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01734  
**Abstract:** Imaginative play is an area of creativity that could allow robots to engage with the world around them in a much more personified way. Imaginary play can be seen as taking real objects and locations and using them as imaginary objects and locations in virtual scenarios. We adopted the story generation capability of large language models (LLMs) to obtain the stories used for imaginary play with human-written prompts. Those generated stories will be simplified and mapped into action sequences that can guide the agent in imaginary play. To evaluate whether the agent can successfully finish the imaginary play, we also designed a text adventure game to simulate a house as the playground for the agent to interact. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Does Correction Remain An Problem For Large Language Models?  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01776  
**Abstract:** As large language models, such as GPT, continue to advance the capabilities of natural language processing (NLP), the question arises: does the problem of correction still persist? This paper investigates the role of correction in the context of large language models by conducting two experiments. The first experiment focuses on correction as a standalone task, employing few-shot learning techniques with GPT-like models for error correction. The second experiment explores the notion of correction as a preparatory task for other NLP tasks, examining whether large language models can tolerate and perform adequately on texts containing certain levels of noise or errors. By addressing these experiments, we aim to shed light on the significance of correction in the era of large language models and its implications for various NLP applications. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** An End-to-end Food Portion Estimation Framework Based on Shape  Reconstruction from Monocular Image  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01810  
**Abstract:** Dietary assessment is a key contributor to monitoring health status. Existing self-report methods are tedious and time-consuming with substantial biases and errors. Image-based food portion estimation aims to estimate food energy values directly from food images, showing great potential for automated dietary assessment solutions. Existing image-based methods either use a single-view image or incorporate multi-view images and depth information to estimate the food energy, which either has limited performance or creates user burdens. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end deep learning framework for food energy estimation from a monocular image through 3D shape reconstruction. We leverage a generative model to reconstruct the voxel representation of the food object from the input image to recover the missing 3D information. Our method is evaluated on a publicly available food image dataset Nutrition5k, resulting a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 40.05 kCal and Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) of 11.47% for food energy estimation. Our method uses RGB image as the only input at the inference stage and achieves competitive results compared to the existing method requiring both RGB and depth information. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** Synthesizing Long-Term Human Motions with Diffusion Models via Coherent  Sampling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01850  
**Abstract:** Text-to-motion generation has gained increasing attention, but most existing methods are limited to generating short-term motions that correspond to a single sentence describing a single action. However, when a text stream describes a sequence of continuous motions, the generated motions corresponding to each sentence may not be coherently linked. Existing long-term motion generation methods face two main issues. Firstly, they cannot directly generate coherent motions and require additional operations such as interpolation to process the generated actions. Secondly, they generate subsequent actions in an autoregressive manner without considering the influence of future actions on previous ones. To address these issues, we propose a novel approach that utilizes a past-conditioned diffusion model with two optional coherent sampling methods: Past Inpainting Sampling and Compositional Transition Sampling. Past Inpainting Sampling completes subsequent motions by treating previous motions as conditions, while Compositional Transition Sampling models the distribution of the transition as the composition of two adjacent motions guided by different text prompts. Our experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method is capable of generating compositional and coherent long-term 3D human motions controlled by a user-instructed long text stream. The code is available at \href{https://github.com/yangzhao1230/PCMDM}{https://github.com/yangzhao1230/PCMDM}. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** ClassEval: A Manually-Crafted Benchmark for Evaluating LLMs on  Class-level Code Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01861  
**Abstract:** In this work, we make the first attempt to evaluate LLMs in a more challenging code generation scenario, i.e. class-level code generation. We first manually construct the first class-level code generation benchmark ClassEval of 100 class-level Python code generation tasks with approximately 500 person-hours. Based on it, we then perform the first study of 11 state-of-the-art LLMs on class-level code generation. Based on our results, we have the following main findings. First, we find that all existing LLMs show much worse performance on class-level code generation compared to on standalone method-level code generation benchmarks like HumanEval; and the method-level coding ability cannot equivalently reflect the class-level coding ability among LLMs. Second, we find that GPT-4 and GPT-3.5 still exhibit dominate superior than other LLMs on class-level code generation, and the second-tier models includes Instruct-Starcoder, Instruct-Codegen, and Wizardcoder with very similar performance. Third, we find that generating the entire class all at once (i.e. holistic generation strategy) is the best generation strategy only for GPT-4 and GPT-3.5, while method-by-method generation (i.e. incremental and compositional) is better strategies for the other models with limited ability of understanding long instructions and utilizing the middle information. Lastly, we find the limited model ability of generating method-dependent code and discuss the frequent error types in generated classes. Our benchmark is available at https://github.com/FudanSELab/ClassEval. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** How many preprints have actually been printed and why: a case study of  computer science preprints on arXiv  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01899  
**Abstract:** Preprints play an increasingly critical role in academic communities. There are many reasons driving researchers to post their manuscripts to preprint servers before formal submission to journals or conferences, but the use of preprints has also sparked considerable controversy, especially surrounding the claim of priority. In this paper, a case study of computer science preprints submitted to arXiv from 2008 to 2017 is conducted to quantify how many preprints have eventually been printed in peer-reviewed venues. Among those published manuscripts, some are published under different titles and without an update to their preprints on arXiv. In the case of these manuscripts, the traditional fuzzy matching method is incapable of mapping the preprint to the final published version. In view of this issue, we introduce a semantics-based mapping method with the employment of Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT). With this new mapping method and a plurality of data sources, we find that 66% of all sampled preprints are published under unchanged titles and 11% are published under different titles and with other modifications. A further analysis was then performed to investigate why these preprints but not others were accepted for publication. Our comparison reveals that in the field of computer science, published preprints feature adequate revisions, multiple authorship, detailed abstract and introduction, extensive and authoritative references and available source code. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Reasoning in Large Language Models Through Symbolic Math Word Problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01906  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized NLP by solving downstream tasks with little to no labeled data. Despite their versatile abilities, the larger question of their ability to reason remains ill-understood. This paper addresses reasoning in math word problems (MWPs) by studying symbolic versions of the numeric problems, since a symbolic expression is a "concise explanation" of the numeric answer. We create and use a symbolic version of the SVAMP dataset and find that GPT-3's davinci-002 model also has good zero-shot accuracy on symbolic MWPs. To evaluate the faithfulness of the model's reasoning, we go beyond accuracy and additionally evaluate the alignment between the final answer and the outputted reasoning, which correspond to numeric and symbolic answers respectively for MWPs. We explore a self-prompting approach to encourage the symbolic reasoning to align with the numeric answer, thus equipping the LLM with the ability to provide a concise and verifiable reasoning and making it more interpretable. Surprisingly, self-prompting also improves the symbolic accuracy to be higher than both the numeric and symbolic accuracies, thus providing an ensembling effect. The SVAMP_Sym dataset will be released for future research on symbolic math problems. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** A vision transformer-based framework for knowledge transfer from  multi-modal to mono-modal lymphoma subtyping models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.01328  
**Abstract:** Determining lymphoma subtypes is a crucial step for better patients treatment targeting to potentially increase their survival chances. In this context, the existing gold standard diagnosis method, which is based on gene expression technology, is highly expensive and time-consuming making difficult its accessibility. Although alternative diagnosis methods based on IHC (immunohistochemistry) technologies exist (recommended by the WHO), they still suffer from similar limitations and are less accurate. WSI (Whole Slide Image) analysis by deep learning models showed promising new directions for cancer diagnosis that would be cheaper and faster than existing alternative methods. In this work, we propose a vision transformer-based framework for distinguishing DLBCL (Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma) cancer subtypes from high-resolution WSIs. To this end, we propose a multi-modal architecture to train a classifier model from various WSI modalities. We then exploit this model through a knowledge distillation mechanism for efficiently driving the learning of a mono-modal classifier. Our experimental study conducted on a dataset of 157 patients shows the promising performance of our mono-modal classification model, outperforming six recent methods from the state-of-the-art dedicated for cancer classification. Moreover, the power-law curve, estimated on our experimental data, shows that our classification model requires a reasonable number of additional patients for its training to potentially reach identical diagnosis accuracy as IHC technologies. 

