**ID:** 1  
**Title:** Evaluating ChatGPT and GPT-4 for Visual Programming  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02522  
**Abstract:** Generative AI and large language models have the potential to drastically improve the landscape of computing education by automatically generating personalized feedback and content. Recent works have studied the capabilities of these models for different programming education scenarios; however, these works considered only text-based programming, in particular, Python programming. Consequently, they leave open the question of how well these models would perform in visual programming domains popularly used for K-8 programming education. The main research question we study is: Do state-of-the-art generative models show advanced capabilities in visual programming on par with their capabilities in text-based Python programming? In our work, we evaluate two models, ChatGPT (based on GPT-3.5) and GPT-4, in visual programming domains for various scenarios and assess performance using expert-based annotations. In particular, we base our evaluation using reference tasks from the domains of Hour of Code: Maze Challenge by Code-dot-org and Karel. Our results show that these models perform poorly and struggle to combine spatial, logical, and programming skills crucial for visual programming. These results also provide exciting directions for future work on developing techniques to improve the performance of generative models in visual programming. 

**ID:** 2  
**Title:** Hierarchical Semi-Supervised Learning Framework for Surgical Gesture  Segmentation and Recognition Based on Multi-Modality Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02529  
**Abstract:** Segmenting and recognizing surgical operation trajectories into distinct, meaningful gestures is a critical preliminary step in surgical workflow analysis for robot-assisted surgery. This step is necessary for facilitating learning from demonstrations for autonomous robotic surgery, evaluating surgical skills, and so on. In this work, we develop a hierarchical semi-supervised learning framework for surgical gesture segmentation using multi-modality data (i.e. kinematics and vision data). More specifically, surgical tasks are initially segmented based on distance characteristics-based profiles and variance characteristics-based profiles constructed using kinematics data. Subsequently, a Transformer-based network with a pre-trained `ResNet-18' backbone is used to extract visual features from the surgical operation videos. By combining the potential segmentation points obtained from both modalities, we can determine the final segmentation points. Furthermore, gesture recognition can be implemented based on supervised learning. The proposed approach has been evaluated using data from the publicly available JIGSAWS database, including Suturing, Needle Passing, and Knot Tying tasks. The results reveal an average F1 score of 0.623 for segmentation and an accuracy of 0.856 for recognition. 

**ID:** 3  
**Title:** Degeneration-Tuning: Using Scrambled Grid shield Unwanted Concepts from  Stable Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02552  
**Abstract:** Owing to the unrestricted nature of the content in the training data, large text-to-image diffusion models, such as Stable Diffusion (SD), are capable of generating images with potentially copyrighted or dangerous content based on corresponding textual concepts information. This includes specific intellectual property (IP), human faces, and various artistic styles. However, Negative Prompt, a widely used method for content removal, frequently fails to conceal this content due to inherent limitations in its inference logic. In this work, we propose a novel strategy named \textbf{Degeneration-Tuning (DT)} to shield contents of unwanted concepts from SD weights. By utilizing Scrambled Grid to reconstruct the correlation between undesired concepts and their corresponding image domain, we guide SD to generate meaningless content when such textual concepts are provided as input. As this adaptation occurs at the level of the model's weights, the SD, after DT, can be grafted onto other conditional diffusion frameworks like ControlNet to shield unwanted concepts. In addition to qualitatively showcasing the effectiveness of our DT method in protecting various types of concepts, a quantitative comparison of the SD before and after DT indicates that the DT method does not significantly impact the generative quality of other contents. The FID and IS scores of the model on COCO-30K exhibit only minor changes after DT, shifting from 12.61 and 39.20 to 13.04 and 38.25, respectively, which clearly outperforms the previous methods. 

**ID:** 4  
**Title:** Survey on Computer Vision Techniques for Internet-of-Things Devices  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02553  
**Abstract:** Deep neural networks (DNNs) are state-of-the-art techniques for solving most computer vision problems. DNNs require billions of parameters and operations to achieve state-of-the-art results. This requirement makes DNNs extremely compute, memory, and energy-hungry, and consequently difficult to deploy on small battery-powered Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices with limited computing resources. Deployment of DNNs on Internet-of-Things devices, such as traffic cameras, can improve public safety by enabling applications such as automatic accident detection and emergency response.Through this paper, we survey the recent advances in low-power and energy-efficient DNN implementations that improve the deployability of DNNs without significantly sacrificing accuracy. In general, these techniques either reduce the memory requirements, the number of arithmetic operations, or both. The techniques can be divided into three major categories: neural network compression, network architecture search and design, and compiler and graph optimizations. In this paper, we survey both low-power techniques for both convolutional and transformer DNNs, and summarize the advantages, disadvantages, and open research problems. 

**ID:** 5  
**Title:** Knowledge-aware Collaborative Filtering with Pre-trained Language Model  for Personalized Review-based Rating Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02555  
**Abstract:** Personalized review-based rating prediction aims at leveraging existing reviews to model user interests and item characteristics for rating prediction. Most of the existing studies mainly encounter two issues. First, the rich knowledge contained in the fine-grained aspects of each review and the knowledge graph is rarely considered to complement the pure text for better modeling user-item interactions. Second, the power of pre-trained language models is not carefully studied for personalized review-based rating prediction. To address these issues, we propose an approach named Knowledge-aware Collaborative Filtering with Pre-trained Language Model (KCF-PLM). For the first issue, to utilize rich knowledge, KCF-PLM develops a transformer network to model the interactions of the extracted aspects w.r.t. a user-item pair. For the second issue, to better represent users and items, KCF-PLM takes all the historical reviews of a user or an item as input to pre-trained language models. Moreover, KCF-PLM integrates the transformer network and the pre-trained language models through representation propagation on the knowledge graph and user-item guided attention of the aspect representations. Thus KCF-PLM combines review text, aspect, knowledge graph, and pre-trained language models together for review-based rating prediction. We conduct comprehensive experiments on several public datasets, demonstrating the effectiveness of KCF-PLM. 

**ID:** 6  
**Title:** Attention-free Spikformer: Mixing Spike Sequences with Simple Linear  Transforms  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02557  
**Abstract:** By integrating the self-attention capability and the biological properties of Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs), Spikformer applies the flourishing Transformer architecture to SNN design. It introduces a Spiking Self-Attention (SSA) module to mix sparse visual features using spike-form Query, Key, and Value, resulting in State-Of-The-Art (SOTA) performance on numerous datasets compared to previous SNN-like frameworks. In this paper, we demonstrate that the Spikformer architecture can be accelerated by replacing the SSA with an unparameterized Linear Transform (LT) such as Fourier and Wavelet transforms. These transforms are utilized to mix spike sequences, reducing the quadratic time complexity to log-linear time complexity. They alternate between the frequency and time domains to extract sparse visual features, showcasing powerful performance and efficiency. We conduct extensive experiments on image classification using both neuromorphic and static datasets. The results indicate that compared to the SOTA Spikformer with SSA, Spikformer with LT achieves higher Top-1 accuracy on neuromorphic datasets and comparable Top-1 accuracy on static datasets. Moreover, Spikformer with LT achieves approximately $29$-$51\%$ improvement in training speed, $61$-$70\%$ improvement in inference speed, and reduces memory usage by $4$-$26\%$ due to not requiring learnable parameters. 

**ID:** 7  
**Title:** The Paradigm Shifts in Artificial Intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02558  
**Abstract:** Kuhn's framework of scientific progress (Kuhn, 1962) provides a useful framing of the paradigm shifts that have occurred in Artificial Intelligence over the last 60 years. The framework is also useful in understanding what is arguably a new paradigm shift in AI, signaled by the emergence of large pre-trained systems such as GPT-3, on which conversational agents such as ChatGPT are based. Such systems make intelligence a commoditized general purpose technology that is configurable to applications. In this paper, I summarize the forces that led to the rise and fall of each paradigm, and discuss the pressing issues and risks associated with the current paradigm shift in AI. 

**ID:** 8  
**Title:** From Discrete Tokens to High-Fidelity Audio Using Multi-Band Diffusion  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02560  
**Abstract:** Deep generative models can generate high-fidelity audio conditioned on various types of representations (e.g., mel-spectrograms, Mel-frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC)). Recently, such models have been used to synthesize audio waveforms conditioned on highly compressed representations. Although such methods produce impressive results, they are prone to generate audible artifacts when the conditioning is flawed or imperfect. An alternative modeling approach is to use diffusion models. However, these have mainly been used as speech vocoders (i.e., conditioned on mel-spectrograms) or generating relatively low sampling rate signals. In this work, we propose a high-fidelity multi-band diffusion-based framework that generates any type of audio modality (e.g., speech, music, environmental sounds) from low-bitrate discrete representations. At equal bit rate, the proposed approach outperforms state-of-the-art generative techniques in terms of perceptual quality. Training and, evaluation code, along with audio samples, are available on the facebookresearch/audiocraft Github page. 

**ID:** 9  
**Title:** Food Classification using Joint Representation of Visual and Textual  Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02562  
**Abstract:** Food classification is an important task in health care. In this work, we propose a multimodal classification framework that uses the modified version of EfficientNet with the Mish activation function for image classification, and the traditional BERT transformer-based network is used for text classification. The proposed network and the other state-of-the-art methods are evaluated on a large open-source dataset, UPMC Food-101. The experimental results show that the proposed network outperforms the other methods, a significant difference of 11.57% and 6.34% in accuracy is observed for image and text classification, respectively, when compared with the second-best performing method. We also compared the performance in terms of accuracy, precision, and recall for text classification using both machine learning and deep learning-based models. The comparative analysis from the prediction results of both images and text demonstrated the efficiency and robustness of the proposed approach. 

**ID:** 10  
**Title:** Is GPT-4 a reliable rater? Evaluating Consistency in GPT-4 Text Ratings  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02575  
**Abstract:** This study investigates the consistency of feedback ratings generated by OpenAI's GPT-4, a state-of-the-art artificial intelligence language model, across multiple iterations, time spans and stylistic variations. The model rated responses to tasks within the Higher Education (HE) subject domain of macroeconomics in terms of their content and style. Statistical analysis was conducted in order to learn more about the interrater reliability, consistency of the ratings across iterations and the correlation between ratings in terms of content and style. The results revealed a high interrater reliability with ICC scores ranging between 0.94 and 0.99 for different timespans, suggesting that GPT-4 is capable of generating consistent ratings across repetitions with a clear prompt. Style and content ratings show a high correlation of 0.87. When applying a non-adequate style the average content ratings remained constant, while style ratings decreased, which indicates that the large language model (LLM) effectively distinguishes between these two criteria during evaluation. The prompt used in this study is furthermore presented and explained. Further research is necessary to assess the robustness and reliability of AI models in various use cases. 

**ID:** 11  
**Title:** ChatGPT for GTFS: From Words to Information  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02618  
**Abstract:** The General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) standard for publishing transit data is ubiquitous. GTFS being tabular data, with information spread across different files, necessitates specialized tools or packages to retrieve information. Concurrently, the use of Large Language Models for text and information retrieval is growing. The idea of this research is to see if the current widely adopted LLMs (ChatGPT) are able to retrieve information from GTFS using natural language instructions. We first test whether ChatGPT (GPT-3.5) understands the GTFS specification. GPT-3.5 answers 77% of our multiple-choice questions (MCQ) correctly. Next, we task the LLM with information extractions from a filtered GTFS feed with 4 routes. For information retrieval, we compare zero-shot and program synthesis. Program synthesis works better, achieving ~90% accuracy on simple questions and ~40% accuracy on complex questions. 

**ID:** 12  
**Title:** Generation of Realistic Synthetic Raw Radar Data for Automated Driving  Applications using Generative Adversarial Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02632  
**Abstract:** The main approaches for simulating FMCW radar are based on ray tracing, which is usually computationally intensive and do not account for background noise. This work proposes a faster method for FMCW radar simulation capable of generating synthetic raw radar data using generative adversarial networks (GAN). The code and pre-trained weights are open-source and available on GitHub. This method generates 16 simultaneous chirps, which allows the generated data to be used for the further development of algorithms for processing radar data (filtering and clustering). This can increase the potential for data augmentation, e.g., by generating data in non-existent or safety-critical scenarios that are not reproducible in real life. In this work, the GAN was trained with radar measurements of a motorcycle and used to generate synthetic raw radar data of a motorcycle traveling in a straight line. For generating this data, the distance of the motorcycle and Gaussian noise are used as input to the neural network. The synthetic generated radar chirps were evaluated using the Frechet Inception Distance (FID). Then, the Range-Azimuth (RA) map is calculated twice: (1\textsuperscript{st}) based on synthetic data using this GAN and (2\textsuperscript{nd}) based on real data. Based on these RA maps, an algorithm with adaptive threshold and edge detection is used for object detection. The results have shown that the data is realistic in terms of coherent radar reflections of the motorcycle and background noise based on the comparison of chirps, the RA maps and the object detection results. Thus, the proposed method in this work has shown to minimize the simulation-to-reality gap for the generation of radar data. 

**ID:** 13  
**Title:** ConceptLab: Creative Generation using Diffusion Prior Constraints  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02669  
**Abstract:** Recent text-to-image generative models have enabled us to transform our words into vibrant, captivating imagery. The surge of personalization techniques that has followed has also allowed us to imagine unique concepts in new scenes. However, an intriguing question remains: How can we generate a new, imaginary concept that has never been seen before? In this paper, we present the task of creative text-to-image generation, where we seek to generate new members of a broad category (e.g., generating a pet that differs from all existing pets). We leverage the under-studied Diffusion Prior models and show that the creative generation problem can be formulated as an optimization process over the output space of the diffusion prior, resulting in a set of "prior constraints". To keep our generated concept from converging into existing members, we incorporate a question-answering model that adaptively adds new constraints to the optimization problem, encouraging the model to discover increasingly more unique creations. Finally, we show that our prior constraints can also serve as a strong mixing mechanism allowing us to create hybrids between generated concepts, introducing even more flexibility into the creative process. 

**ID:** 14  
**Title:** Lightweight Endoscopic Depth Estimation with CNN-Transformer Encoder  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02716  
**Abstract:** In this study, we tackle the key challenges concerning accuracy and robustness in depth estimation for endoscopic imaging, with a particular emphasis on real-time inference and the impact of reflections. We propose an innovative lightweight solution that integrates Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Transformers to predict multi-scale depth maps. Our approach includes optimizing the network architecture, incorporating multi-scale dilated convolution, and a multi-channel attention mechanism. We also introduce a statistical confidence boundary mask to minimize the impact of reflective areas. Moreover, we propose a novel complexity evaluation metric that considers network parameter size, floating-point operations, and inference frames per second. Our research aims to enhance the efficiency and safety of laparoscopic surgery significantly. We comprehensively evaluate our proposed method and compare it with existing solutions. The results demonstrate that our method ensures depth estimation accuracy while being lightweight. 

**ID:** 15  
**Title:** Meta-Tsallis-Entropy Minimization: A New Self-Training Approach for  Domain Adaptation on Text Classification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02746  
**Abstract:** Text classification is a fundamental task for natural language processing, and adapting text classification models across domains has broad applications. Self-training generates pseudo-examples from the model's predictions and iteratively trains on the pseudo-examples, i.e., minimizes the loss on the source domain and the Gibbs entropy on the target domain. However, Gibbs entropy is sensitive to prediction errors, and thus, self-training tends to fail when the domain shift is large. In this paper, we propose Meta-Tsallis Entropy minimization (MTEM), which applies a meta-learning algorithm to optimize the instance adaptive Tsallis entropy on the target domain. To reduce the computation cost of MTEM, we propose an approximation technique to approximate the Second-order derivation involved in the meta-learning. To efficiently generate pseudo labels, we propose an annealing sampling mechanism for exploring the model's prediction probability. Theoretically, we prove the convergence of the meta-learning algorithm in MTEM and analyze the effectiveness of MTEM in achieving domain adaptation. Experimentally, MTEM improves the adaptation performance of BERT with an average of 4 percent on the benchmark dataset. 

**ID:** 16  
**Title:** NeRFs: The Search for the Best 3D Representation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02751  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields or NeRFs have become the representation of choice for problems in view synthesis or image-based rendering, as well as in many other applications across computer graphics and vision, and beyond. At their core, NeRFs describe a new representation of 3D scenes or 3D geometry. Instead of meshes, disparity maps, multiplane images or even voxel grids, they represent the scene as a continuous volume, with volumetric parameters like view-dependent radiance and volume density obtained by querying a neural network. The NeRF representation has now been widely used, with thousands of papers extending or building on it every year, multiple authors and websites providing overviews and surveys, and numerous industrial applications and startup companies. In this article, we briefly review the NeRF representation, and describe the three decades-long quest to find the best 3D representation for view synthesis and related problems, culminating in the NeRF papers. We then describe new developments in terms of NeRF representations and make some observations and insights regarding the future of 3D representations. 

**ID:** 17  
**Title:** DaMSTF: Domain Adversarial Learning Enhanced Meta Self-Training for  Domain Adaptation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02753  
**Abstract:** Self-training emerges as an important research line on domain adaptation. By taking the model's prediction as the pseudo labels of the unlabeled data, self-training bootstraps the model with pseudo instances in the target domain. However, the prediction errors of pseudo labels (label noise) challenge the performance of self-training. To address this problem, previous approaches only use reliable pseudo instances, i.e., pseudo instances with high prediction confidence, to retrain the model. Although these strategies effectively reduce the label noise, they are prone to miss the hard examples. In this paper, we propose a new self-training framework for domain adaptation, namely Domain adversarial learning enhanced Self-Training Framework (DaMSTF). Firstly, DaMSTF involves meta-learning to estimate the importance of each pseudo instance, so as to simultaneously reduce the label noise and preserve hard examples. Secondly, we design a meta constructor for constructing the meta-validation set, which guarantees the effectiveness of the meta-learning module by improving the quality of the meta-validation set. Thirdly, we find that the meta-learning module suffers from the training guidance vanishment and tends to converge to an inferior optimal. To this end, we employ domain adversarial learning as a heuristic neural network initialization method, which can help the meta-learning module converge to a better optimal. Theoretically and experimentally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed DaMSTF. On the cross-domain sentiment classification task, DaMSTF improves the performance of BERT with an average of nearly 4%. 

**ID:** 18  
**Title:** Dual Degradation-Inspired Deep Unfolding Network for Low-Light Image  Enhancement  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02776  
**Abstract:** Although low-light image enhancement has achieved great stride based on deep enhancement models, most of them mainly stress on enhancement performance via an elaborated black-box network and rarely explore the physical significance of enhancement models. Towards this issue, we propose a Dual degrAdation-inSpired deep Unfolding network, termed DASUNet, for low-light image enhancement. Specifically, we construct a dual degradation model (DDM) to explicitly simulate the deterioration mechanism of low-light images. It learns two distinct image priors via considering degradation specificity between luminance and chrominance spaces. To make the proposed scheme tractable, we design an alternating optimization solution to solve the proposed DDM. Further, the designed solution is unfolded into a specified deep network, imitating the iteration updating rules, to form DASUNet. Local and long-range information are obtained by prior modeling module (PMM), inheriting the advantages of convolution and Transformer, to enhance the representation capability of dual degradation priors. Additionally, a space aggregation module (SAM) is presented to boost the interaction of two degradation models. Extensive experiments on multiple popular low-light image datasets validate the effectiveness of DASUNet compared to canonical state-of-the-art low-light image enhancement methods. Our source code and pretrained model will be publicly available. 

**ID:** 19  
**Title:** Unfolding Once is Enough: A Deployment-Friendly Transformer Unit for  Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02794  
**Abstract:** Recent years have witnessed a few attempts of vision transformers for single image super-resolution (SISR). Since the high resolution of intermediate features in SISR models increases memory and computational requirements, efficient SISR transformers are more favored. Based on some popular transformer backbone, many methods have explored reasonable schemes to reduce the computational complexity of the self-attention module while achieving impressive performance. However, these methods only focus on the performance on the training platform (e.g., Pytorch/Tensorflow) without further optimization for the deployment platform (e.g., TensorRT). Therefore, they inevitably contain some redundant operators, posing challenges for subsequent deployment in real-world applications. In this paper, we propose a deployment-friendly transformer unit, namely UFONE (i.e., UnFolding ONce is Enough), to alleviate these problems. In each UFONE, we introduce an Inner-patch Transformer Layer (ITL) to efficiently reconstruct the local structural information from patches and a Spatial-Aware Layer (SAL) to exploit the long-range dependencies between patches. Based on UFONE, we propose a Deployment-friendly Inner-patch Transformer Network (DITN) for the SISR task, which can achieve favorable performance with low latency and memory usage on both training and deployment platforms. Furthermore, to further boost the deployment efficiency of the proposed DITN on TensorRT, we also provide an efficient substitution for layer normalization and propose a fusion optimization strategy for specific operators. Extensive experiments show that our models can achieve competitive results in terms of qualitative and quantitative performance with high deployment efficiency. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/yongliuy/DITN}. 

**ID:** 20  
**Title:** LLM is Like a Box of Chocolates: the Non-determinism of ChatGPT in Code  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02828  
**Abstract:** There has been a recent explosion of research on Large Language Models (LLMs) for software engineering tasks, in particular code generation. However, results from LLMs can be highly unstable; nondeterministically returning very different codes for the same prompt. Non-determinism is a potential menace to scientific conclusion validity. When non-determinism is high, scientific conclusions simply cannot be relied upon unless researchers change their behaviour to control for it in their empirical analyses. This paper conducts an empirical study to demonstrate that non-determinism is, indeed, high, thereby underlining the need for this behavioural change. We choose to study ChatGPT because it is already highly prevalent in the code generation research literature. We report results from a study of 829 code generation problems from three code generation benchmarks (i.e., CodeContests, APPS, and HumanEval). Our results reveal high degrees of non-determinism: the ratio of coding tasks with zero equal test output across different requests is 72.73%, 60.40%, and 65.85% for CodeContests, APPS, and HumanEval, respectively. In addition, we find that setting the temperature to 0 does not guarantee determinism in code generation, although it indeed brings less non-determinism than the default configuration (temperature=1). These results confirm that there is, currently, a significant threat to scientific conclusion validity. In order to put LLM-based research on firmer scientific foundations, researchers need to take into account non-determinism in drawing their conclusions. 

**ID:** 21  
**Title:** Learning Unified Decompositional and Compositional NeRF for Editable  Novel View Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02840  
**Abstract:** Implicit neural representations have shown powerful capacity in modeling real-world 3D scenes, offering superior performance in novel view synthesis. In this paper, we target a more challenging scenario, i.e., joint scene novel view synthesis and editing based on implicit neural scene representations. State-of-the-art methods in this direction typically consider building separate networks for these two tasks (i.e., view synthesis and editing). Thus, the modeling of interactions and correlations between these two tasks is very limited, which, however, is critical for learning high-quality scene representations. To tackle this problem, in this paper, we propose a unified Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) framework to effectively perform joint scene decomposition and composition for modeling real-world scenes. The decomposition aims at learning disentangled 3D representations of different objects and the background, allowing for scene editing, while scene composition models an entire scene representation for novel view synthesis. Specifically, with a two-stage NeRF framework, we learn a coarse stage for predicting a global radiance field as guidance for point sampling, and in the second fine-grained stage, we perform scene decomposition by a novel one-hot object radiance field regularization module and a pseudo supervision via inpainting to handle ambiguous background regions occluded by objects. The decomposed object-level radiance fields are further composed by using activations from the decomposition module. Extensive quantitative and qualitative results show the effectiveness of our method for scene decomposition and composition, outperforming state-of-the-art methods for both novel-view synthesis and editing tasks. 

**ID:** 22  
**Title:** Improving Generalization of Image Captioning with Unsupervised Prompt  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02862  
**Abstract:** Pretrained visual-language models have demonstrated impressive zero-shot abilities in image captioning, when accompanied by hand-crafted prompts. Meanwhile, hand-crafted prompts utilize human prior knowledge to guide the model. However, due to the diversity between different domains, such hand-crafted prompt that provide invariant prior knowledge may result in mode collapse for some domains. Some researches attempted to incorporate expert knowledge and instruction datasets, but the results were costly and led to hallucinations. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised prompt learning method to improve Generalization of Image Captioning (GeneIC), which learns a domain-specific prompt vector for the target domain without requiring annotated data. GeneIC aligns visual and language modalities with a pre-trained Contrastive Language-Image Pre-Training (CLIP) model, thus optimizing the domain-specific prompt vector from two aspects: attribute and semantic consistency. Specifically, GeneIC first generates attribute-transferred images with differing attributes, while retaining semantic similarity with original images. Then, GeneIC uses CLIP to measure the similarity between the images and the generated sentences. By exploring the variable and invariant features in the original images and attribute-transferred images, attribute consistency constrains the attribute change direction of both images and sentences to learn domain-specific knowledge. The semantic consistency directly measures the similarity between the generated sentences and images to ensure the accuracy and comprehensiveness of the generated sentences. Consequently, GeneIC only optimizes the prompt vectors, which effectively retains the knowledge in the large model and introduces domain-specific knowledge. 

**ID:** 23  
**Title:** Sketch and Text Guided Diffusion Model for Colored Point Cloud  Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02874  
**Abstract:** Diffusion probabilistic models have achieved remarkable success in text guided image generation. However, generating 3D shapes is still challenging due to the lack of sufficient data containing 3D models along with their descriptions. Moreover, text based descriptions of 3D shapes are inherently ambiguous and lack details. In this paper, we propose a sketch and text guided probabilistic diffusion model for colored point cloud generation that conditions the denoising process jointly with a hand drawn sketch of the object and its textual description. We incrementally diffuse the point coordinates and color values in a joint diffusion process to reach a Gaussian distribution. Colored point cloud generation thus amounts to learning the reverse diffusion process, conditioned by the sketch and text, to iteratively recover the desired shape and color. Specifically, to learn effective sketch-text embedding, our model adaptively aggregates the joint embedding of text prompt and the sketch based on a capsule attention network. Our model uses staged diffusion to generate the shape and then assign colors to different parts conditioned on the appearance prompt while preserving precise shapes from the first stage. This gives our model the flexibility to extend to multiple tasks, such as appearance re-editing and part segmentation. Experimental results demonstrate that our model outperforms recent state-of-the-art in point cloud generation. 

**ID:** 24  
**Title:** Gradient-based Monte Carlo methods for relaxation approximations of  hyperbolic conservation laws  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02904  
**Abstract:** Particle methods based on evolving the spatial derivatives of the solution were originally introduced to simulate reaction-diffusion processes, inspired by vortex methods for the Navier--Stokes equations. Such methods, referred to as gradient random walk methods, were extensively studied in the '90s and have several interesting features, such as being grid free, automatically adapting to the solution by concentrating elements where the gradient is large and significantly reducing the variance of the standard random walk approach. In this work, we revive these ideas by showing how to generalize the approach to a larger class of partial differential equations, including hyperbolic systems of conservation laws. To achieve this goal, we first extend the classical Monte Carlo method to relaxation approximation of systems of conservation laws, and subsequently consider a novel particle dynamics based on the spatial derivatives of the solution. The methodology, combined with asymptotic-preserving splitting discretization, yields a way to construct a new class of gradient-based Monte Carlo methods for hyperbolic systems of conservation laws. Several results in one spatial dimension for scalar equations and systems of conservation laws show that the new methods are very promising and yield remarkable improvements compared to standard Monte Carlo approaches, either in terms of variance reduction as well as in describing the shock structure. 

**ID:** 25  
**Title:** Where and How: Mitigating Confusion in Neural Radiance Fields from  Sparse Inputs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02908  
**Abstract:** Neural Radiance Fields from Sparse input} (NeRF-S) have shown great potential in synthesizing novel views with a limited number of observed viewpoints. However, due to the inherent limitations of sparse inputs and the gap between non-adjacent views, rendering results often suffer from over-fitting and foggy surfaces, a phenomenon we refer to as "CONFUSION" during volume rendering. In this paper, we analyze the root cause of this confusion and attribute it to two fundamental questions: "WHERE" and "HOW". To this end, we present a novel learning framework, WaH-NeRF, which effectively mitigates confusion by tackling the following challenges: (i)"WHERE" to Sample? in NeRF-S -- we introduce a Deformable Sampling strategy and a Weight-based Mutual Information Loss to address sample-position confusion arising from the limited number of viewpoints; and (ii) "HOW" to Predict? in NeRF-S -- we propose a Semi-Supervised NeRF learning Paradigm based on pose perturbation and a Pixel-Patch Correspondence Loss to alleviate prediction confusion caused by the disparity between training and testing viewpoints. By integrating our proposed modules and loss functions, WaH-NeRF outperforms previous methods under the NeRF-S setting. Code is available https://github.com/bbbbby-99/WaH-NeRF. 

**ID:** 26  
**Title:** DiffDance: Cascaded Human Motion Diffusion Model for Dance Generation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02915  
**Abstract:** When hearing music, it is natural for people to dance to its rhythm. Automatic dance generation, however, is a challenging task due to the physical constraints of human motion and rhythmic alignment with target music. Conventional autoregressive methods introduce compounding errors during sampling and struggle to capture the long-term structure of dance sequences. To address these limitations, we present a novel cascaded motion diffusion model, DiffDance, designed for high-resolution, long-form dance generation. This model comprises a music-to-dance diffusion model and a sequence super-resolution diffusion model. To bridge the gap between music and motion for conditional generation, DiffDance employs a pretrained audio representation learning model to extract music embeddings and further align its embedding space to motion via contrastive loss. During training our cascaded diffusion model, we also incorporate multiple geometric losses to constrain the model outputs to be physically plausible and add a dynamic loss weight that adaptively changes over diffusion timesteps to facilitate sample diversity. Through comprehensive experiments performed on the benchmark dataset AIST++, we demonstrate that DiffDance is capable of generating realistic dance sequences that align effectively with the input music. These results are comparable to those achieved by state-of-the-art autoregressive methods. 

**ID:** 27  
**Title:** ConvFormer: Revisiting Transformer for Sequential User Modeling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02925  
**Abstract:** Sequential user modeling, a critical task in personalized recommender systems, focuses on predicting the next item a user would prefer, requiring a deep understanding of user behavior sequences. Despite the remarkable success of Transformer-based models across various domains, their full potential in comprehending user behavior remains untapped. In this paper, we re-examine Transformer-like architectures aiming to advance state-of-the-art performance. We start by revisiting the core building blocks of Transformer-based methods, analyzing the effectiveness of the item-to-item mechanism within the context of sequential user modeling. After conducting a thorough experimental analysis, we identify three essential criteria for devising efficient sequential user models, which we hope will serve as practical guidelines to inspire and shape future designs. Following this, we introduce ConvFormer, a simple but powerful modification to the Transformer architecture that meets these criteria, yielding state-of-the-art results. Additionally, we present an acceleration technique to minimize the complexity associated with processing extremely long sequences. Experiments on four public datasets showcase ConvFormer's superiority and confirm the validity of our proposed criteria. 

**ID:** 28  
**Title:** A criterion for Artificial General Intelligence: hypothetic-deductive  reasoning, tested on ChatGPT  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02950  
**Abstract:** We argue that a key reasoning skill that any advanced AI, say GPT-4, should master in order to qualify as 'thinking machine', or AGI, is hypothetic-deductive reasoning. Problem-solving or question-answering can quite generally be construed as involving two steps: hypothesizing that a certain set of hypotheses T applies to the problem or question at hand, and deducing the solution or answer from T - hence the term hypothetic-deductive reasoning. An elementary proxy of hypothetic-deductive reasoning is causal reasoning. We propose simple tests for both types of reasoning, and apply them to ChatGPT. Our study shows that, at present, the chatbot has a limited capacity for either type of reasoning, as soon as the problems considered are somewhat complex. However, we submit that if an AI would be capable of this type of reasoning in a sufficiently wide range of contexts, it would be an AGI. 

**ID:** 29  
**Title:** Who is Smarter? An Empirical Study of AI-based Smart Contract Creation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02955  
**Abstract:** The introduction of large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT and Google Palm2 for smart contract generation seems to be the first well-established instance of an AI pair programmer. LLMs have access to a large number of open-source smart contracts, enabling them to utilize more extensive code in Solidity than other code generation tools. Although the initial and informal assessments of LLMs for smart contract generation are promising, a systematic evaluation is needed to explore the limits and benefits of these models. The main objective of this study is to assess the quality of generated code provided by LLMs for smart contracts. We also aim to evaluate the impact of the quality and variety of input parameters fed to LLMs. To achieve this aim, we created an experimental setup for evaluating the generated code in terms of validity, correctness, and efficiency. Our study finds crucial evidence of security bugs getting introduced in the generated smart contracts as well as the overall quality and correctness of the code getting impacted. However, we also identified the areas where it can be improved. The paper also proposes several potential research directions to improve the process, quality and safety of generated smart contract codes. 

**ID:** 30  
**Title:** Generative Approach for Probabilistic Human Mesh Recovery using  Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02963  
**Abstract:** This work focuses on the problem of reconstructing a 3D human body mesh from a given 2D image. Despite the inherent ambiguity of the task of human mesh recovery, most existing works have adopted a method of regressing a single output. In contrast, we propose a generative approach framework, called "Diffusion-based Human Mesh Recovery (Diff-HMR)" that takes advantage of the denoising diffusion process to account for multiple plausible outcomes. During the training phase, the SMPL parameters are diffused from ground-truth parameters to random distribution, and Diff-HMR learns the reverse process of this diffusion. In the inference phase, the model progressively refines the given random SMPL parameters into the corresponding parameters that align with the input image. Diff-HMR, being a generative approach, is capable of generating diverse results for the same input image as the input noise varies. We conduct validation experiments, and the results demonstrate that the proposed framework effectively models the inherent ambiguity of the task of human mesh recovery in a probabilistic manner. The code is available at https://github.com/hanbyel0105/Diff-HMR 

**ID:** 31  
**Title:** Resource Management for GPT-based Model Deployed on Clouds: Challenges,  Solutions, and Future Directions  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02970  
**Abstract:** The widespread adoption of the large language model (LLM), e.g. Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT), deployed on cloud computing environment (e.g. Azure) has led to a huge increased demand for resources. This surge in demand poses significant challenges to resource management in clouds. This paper aims to highlight these challenges by first identifying the unique characteristics of resource management for the GPT-based model. Building upon this understanding, we analyze the specific challenges faced by resource management in the context of GPT-based model deployed on clouds, and propose corresponding potential solutions. To facilitate effective resource management, we introduce a comprehensive resource management framework and present resource scheduling algorithms specifically designed for the GPT-based model. Furthermore, we delve into the future directions for resource management in the GPT-based model, highlighting potential areas for further exploration and improvement. Through this study, we aim to provide valuable insights into resource management for GPT-based models deployed in clouds and promote their sustainable development for GPT-based models and applications. 

**ID:** 32  
**Title:** Spanish Pre-trained BERT Model and Evaluation Data  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02976  
**Abstract:** The Spanish language is one of the top 5 spoken languages in the world. Nevertheless, finding resources to train or evaluate Spanish language models is not an easy task. In this paper we help bridge this gap by presenting a BERT-based language model pre-trained exclusively on Spanish data. As a second contribution, we also compiled several tasks specifically for the Spanish language in a single repository much in the spirit of the GLUE benchmark. By fine-tuning our pre-trained Spanish model, we obtain better results compared to other BERT-based models pre-trained on multilingual corpora for most of the tasks, even achieving a new state-of-the-art on some of them. We have publicly released our model, the pre-training data, and the compilation of the Spanish benchmarks. 

**ID:** 33  
**Title:** Focus the Discrepancy: Intra- and Inter-Correlation Learning for Image  Anomaly Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02983  
**Abstract:** Humans recognize anomalies through two aspects: larger patch-wise representation discrepancies and weaker patch-to-normal-patch correlations. However, the previous AD methods didn't sufficiently combine the two complementary aspects to design AD models. To this end, we find that Transformer can ideally satisfy the two aspects as its great power in the unified modeling of patch-wise representations and patch-to-patch correlations. In this paper, we propose a novel AD framework: FOcus-the-Discrepancy (FOD), which can simultaneously spot the patch-wise, intra- and inter-discrepancies of anomalies. The major characteristic of our method is that we renovate the self-attention maps in transformers to Intra-Inter-Correlation (I2Correlation). The I2Correlation contains a two-branch structure to first explicitly establish intra- and inter-image correlations, and then fuses the features of two-branch to spotlight the abnormal patterns. To learn the intra- and inter-correlations adaptively, we propose the RBF-kernel-based target-correlations as learning targets for self-supervised learning. Besides, we introduce an entropy constraint strategy to solve the mode collapse issue in optimization and further amplify the normal-abnormal distinguishability. Extensive experiments on three unsupervised real-world AD benchmarks show the superior performance of our approach. Code will be available at https://github.com/xcyao00/FOD. 

**ID:** 34  
**Title:** MCTformer+: Multi-Class Token Transformer for Weakly Supervised Semantic  Segmentation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03005  
**Abstract:** This paper proposes a novel transformer-based framework that aims to enhance weakly supervised semantic segmentation (WSSS) by generating accurate class-specific object localization maps as pseudo labels. Building upon the observation that the attended regions of the one-class token in the standard vision transformer can contribute to a class-agnostic localization map, we explore the potential of the transformer model to capture class-specific attention for class-discriminative object localization by learning multiple class tokens. We introduce a Multi-Class Token transformer, which incorporates multiple class tokens to enable class-aware interactions with the patch tokens. To achieve this, we devise a class-aware training strategy that establishes a one-to-one correspondence between the output class tokens and the ground-truth class labels. Moreover, a Contrastive-Class-Token (CCT) module is proposed to enhance the learning of discriminative class tokens, enabling the model to better capture the unique characteristics and properties of each class. As a result, class-discriminative object localization maps can be effectively generated by leveraging the class-to-patch attentions associated with different class tokens. To further refine these localization maps, we propose the utilization of patch-level pairwise affinity derived from the patch-to-patch transformer attention. Furthermore, the proposed framework seamlessly complements the Class Activation Mapping (CAM) method, resulting in significantly improved WSSS performance on the PASCAL VOC 2012 and MS COCO 2014 datasets. These results underline the importance of the class token for WSSS. 

**ID:** 35  
**Title:** High-Resolution Vision Transformers for Pixel-Level Identification of  Structural Components and Damage  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03006  
**Abstract:** Visual inspection is predominantly used to evaluate the state of civil structures, but recent developments in unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and artificial intelligence have increased the speed, safety, and reliability of the inspection process. In this study, we develop a semantic segmentation network based on vision transformers and Laplacian pyramids scaling networks for efficiently parsing high-resolution visual inspection images. The massive amounts of collected high-resolution images during inspections can slow down the investigation efforts. And while there have been extensive studies dedicated to the use of deep learning models for damage segmentation, processing high-resolution visual data can pose major computational difficulties. Traditionally, images are either uniformly downsampled or partitioned to cope with computational demands. However, the input is at risk of losing local fine details, such as thin cracks, or global contextual information. Inspired by super-resolution architectures, our vision transformer model learns to resize high-resolution images and masks to retain both the valuable local features and the global semantics without sacrificing computational efficiency. The proposed framework has been evaluated through comprehensive experiments on a dataset of bridge inspection report images using multiple metrics for pixel-wise materials detection. 

**ID:** 36  
**Title:** Towards Scene-Text to Scene-Text Translation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03024  
**Abstract:** In this work, we study the task of ``visually" translating scene text from a source language (e.g., English) to a target language (e.g., Chinese). Visual translation involves not just the recognition and translation of scene text but also the generation of the translated image that preserves visual features of the text, such as font, size, and background. There are several challenges associated with this task, such as interpolating font to unseen characters and preserving text size and the background. To address these, we introduce VTNet, a novel conditional diffusion-based method. To train the VTNet, we create a synthetic cross-lingual dataset of 600K samples of scene text images in six popular languages, including English, Hindi, Tamil, Chinese, Bengali, and German. We evaluate the performance of VTnet through extensive experiments and comparisons to related methods. Our model also surpasses the previous state-of-the-art results on the conventional scene-text editing benchmarks. Further, we present rigorous qualitative studies to understand the strengths and shortcomings of our model. Results show that our approach generalizes well to unseen words and fonts. We firmly believe our work can benefit real-world applications, such as text translation using a phone camera and translating educational materials. Code and data will be made publicly available. 

**ID:** 37  
**Title:** Pre-Trained Large Language Models for Industrial Control  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03028  
**Abstract:** For industrial control, developing high-performance controllers with few samples and low technical debt is appealing. Foundation models, possessing rich prior knowledge obtained from pre-training with Internet-scale corpus, have the potential to be a good controller with proper prompts. In this paper, we take HVAC (Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning) building control as an example to examine the ability of GPT-4 (one of the first-tier foundation models) as the controller. To control HVAC, we wrap the task as a language game by providing text including a short description for the task, several selected demonstrations, and the current observation to GPT-4 on each step and execute the actions responded by GPT-4. We conduct series of experiments to answer the following questions: 1)~How well can GPT-4 control HVAC? 2)~How well can GPT-4 generalize to different scenarios for HVAC control? 3) How different parts of the text context affect the performance? In general, we found GPT-4 achieves the performance comparable to RL methods with few samples and low technical debt, indicating the potential of directly applying foundation models to industrial control tasks. 

**ID:** 38  
**Title:** FourLLIE: Boosting Low-Light Image Enhancement by Fourier Frequency  Information  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03033  
**Abstract:** Recently, Fourier frequency information has attracted much attention in Low-Light Image Enhancement (LLIE). Some researchers noticed that, in the Fourier space, the lightness degradation mainly exists in the amplitude component and the rest exists in the phase component. By incorporating both the Fourier frequency and the spatial information, these researchers proposed remarkable solutions for LLIE. In this work, we further explore the positive correlation between the magnitude of amplitude and the magnitude of lightness, which can be effectively leveraged to improve the lightness of low-light images in the Fourier space. Moreover, we find that the Fourier transform can extract the global information of the image, and does not introduce massive neural network parameters like Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs) or Transformer. To this end, a two-stage Fourier-based LLIE network (FourLLIE) is proposed. In the first stage, we improve the lightness of low-light images by estimating the amplitude transform map in the Fourier space. In the second stage, we introduce the Signal-to-Noise-Ratio (SNR) map to provide the prior for integrating the global Fourier frequency and the local spatial information, which recovers image details in the spatial space. With this ingenious design, FourLLIE outperforms the existing state-of-the-art (SOTA) LLIE methods on four representative datasets while maintaining good model efficiency. 

**ID:** 39  
**Title:** Multi-scale Alternated Attention Transformer for Generalized Stereo  Matching  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03048  
**Abstract:** Recent stereo matching networks achieves dramatic performance by introducing epipolar line constraint to limit the matching range of dual-view. However, in complicated real-world scenarios, the feature information based on intra-epipolar line alone is too weak to facilitate stereo matching. In this paper, we present a simple but highly effective network called Alternated Attention U-shaped Transformer (AAUformer) to balance the impact of epipolar line in dual and single view respectively for excellent generalization performance. Compared to other models, our model has several main designs: 1) to better liberate the local semantic features of the single-view at pixel level, we introduce window self-attention to break the limits of intra-row self-attention and completely replace the convolutional network for denser features before cross-matching; 2) the multi-scale alternated attention backbone network was designed to extract invariant features in order to achieves the coarse-to-fine matching process for hard-to-discriminate regions. We performed a series of both comparative studies and ablation studies on several mainstream stereo matching datasets. The results demonstrate that our model achieves state-of-the-art on the Scene Flow dataset, and the fine-tuning performance is competitive on the KITTI 2015 dataset. In addition, for cross generalization experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets, our model outperforms several state-of-the-art works. 

**ID:** 40  
**Title:** TARJAMAT: Evaluation of Bard and ChatGPT on Machine Translation of Ten  Arabic Varieties  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03051  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) finetuned to follow human instructions have recently emerged as a breakthrough in AI. Models such as Google Bard and OpenAI ChatGPT, for example, are surprisingly powerful tools for question answering, code debugging, and dialogue generation. Despite the purported multilingual proficiency of these models, their linguistic inclusivity remains insufficiently explored. Considering this constraint, we present a thorough assessment of Bard and ChatGPT (encompassing both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4) regarding their machine translation proficiencies across ten varieties of Arabic. Our evaluation covers diverse Arabic varieties such as Classical Arabic, Modern Standard Arabic, and several nuanced dialectal variants. Furthermore, we undertake a human-centric study to scrutinize the efficacy of the most recent model, Bard, in following human instructions during translation tasks. Our exhaustive analysis indicates that LLMs may encounter challenges with certain Arabic dialects, particularly those for which minimal public data exists, such as Algerian and Mauritanian dialects. However, they exhibit satisfactory performance with more prevalent dialects, albeit occasionally trailing behind established commercial systems like Google Translate. Additionally, our analysis reveals a circumscribed capability of Bard in aligning with human instructions in translation contexts. Collectively, our findings underscore that prevailing LLMs remain far from inclusive, with only limited ability to cater for the linguistic and cultural intricacies of diverse communities. 

**ID:** 41  
**Title:** ECT: Fine-grained Edge Detection with Learned Cause Tokens  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03092  
**Abstract:** In this study, we tackle the challenging fine-grained edge detection task, which refers to predicting specific edges caused by reflectance, illumination, normal, and depth changes, respectively. Prior methods exploit multi-scale convolutional networks, which are limited in three aspects: (1) Convolutions are local operators while identifying the cause of edge formation requires looking at far away pixels. (2) Priors specific to edge cause are fixed in prediction heads. (3) Using separate networks for generic and fine-grained edge detection, and the constraint between them may be violated. To address these three issues, we propose a two-stage transformer-based network sequentially predicting generic edges and fine-grained edges, which has a global receptive field thanks to the attention mechanism. The prior knowledge of edge causes is formulated as four learnable cause tokens in a cause-aware decoder design. Furthermore, to encourage the consistency between generic edges and fine-grained edges, an edge aggregation and alignment loss is exploited. We evaluate our method on the public benchmark BSDS-RIND and several newly derived benchmarks, and achieve new state-of-the-art results. Our code, data, and models are publicly available at https://github.com/Daniellli/ECT.git. 

**ID:** 42  
**Title:** "Kurosawa": A Script Writer's Assistant  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03122  
**Abstract:** Storytelling is the lifeline of the entertainment industry -- movies, TV shows, and stand-up comedies, all need stories. A good and gripping script is the lifeline of storytelling and demands creativity and resource investment. Good scriptwriters are rare to find and often work under severe time pressure. Consequently, entertainment media are actively looking for automation. In this paper, we present an AI-based script-writing workbench called KUROSAWA which addresses the tasks of plot generation and script generation. Plot generation aims to generate a coherent and creative plot (600-800 words) given a prompt (15-40 words). Script generation, on the other hand, generates a scene (200-500 words) in a screenplay format from a brief description (15-40 words). Kurosawa needs data to train. We use a 4-act structure of storytelling to annotate the plot dataset manually. We create a dataset of 1000 manually annotated plots and their corresponding prompts/storylines and a gold-standard dataset of 1000 scenes with four main elements -- scene headings, action lines, dialogues, and character names -- tagged individually. We fine-tune GPT-3 with the above datasets to generate plots and scenes. These plots and scenes are first evaluated and then used by the scriptwriters of a large and famous media platform ErosNow. We release the annotated datasets and the models trained on these datasets as a working benchmark for automatic movie plot and script generation. 

**ID:** 43  
**Title:** E-CLIP: Towards Label-efficient Event-based Open-world Understanding by  CLIP  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03135  
**Abstract:** Contrasting Language-image pertaining (CLIP) has recently shown promising open-world and few-shot performance on 2D image-based recognition tasks. However, the transferred capability of CLIP to the novel event camera data still remains under-explored. In particular, due to the modality gap with the image-text data and the lack of large-scale datasets, achieving this goal is non-trivial and thus requires significant research innovation. In this paper, we propose E-CLIP, a novel and effective framework that unleashes the potential of CLIP for event-based recognition to compensate for the lack of large-scale event-based datasets. Our work addresses two crucial challenges: 1) how to generalize CLIP's visual encoder to event data while fully leveraging events' unique properties, e.g., sparsity and high temporal resolution; 2) how to effectively align the multi-modal embeddings, i.e., image, text, and events. To this end, we first introduce a novel event encoder that subtly models the temporal information from events and meanwhile generates event prompts to promote the modality bridging. We then design a text encoder that generates content prompts and utilizes hybrid text prompts to enhance the E-CLIP's generalization ability across diverse datasets. With the proposed event encoder, text encoder, and original image encoder, a novel Hierarchical Triple Contrastive Alignment (HTCA) module is introduced to jointly optimize the correlation and enable efficient knowledge transfer among the three modalities. We conduct extensive experiments on two recognition benchmarks, and the results demonstrate that our E-CLIP outperforms existing methods by a large margin of +3.94% and +4.62% on the N-Caltech dataset, respectively, in both fine-tuning and few-shot settings. Moreover, our E-CLIP can be flexibly extended to the event retrieval task using both text or image queries, showing plausible performance. 

**ID:** 44  
**Title:** Empirical Optimal Risk to Quantify Model Trustworthiness for Failure  Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03179  
**Abstract:** Failure detection (FD) in AI systems is a crucial safeguard for the deployment for safety-critical tasks. The common evaluation method of FD performance is the Risk-coverage (RC) curve, which reveals the trade-off between the data coverage rate and the performance on accepted data. One common way to quantify the RC curve by calculating the area under the RC curve. However, this metric does not inform on how suited any method is for FD, or what the optimal coverage rate should be. As FD aims to achieve higher performance with fewer data discarded, evaluating with partial coverage excluding the most uncertain samples is more intuitive and meaningful than full coverage. In addition, there is an optimal point in the coverage where the model could achieve ideal performance theoretically. We propose the Excess Area Under the Optimal RC Curve (E-AUoptRC), with the area in coverage from the optimal point to the full coverage. Further, the model performance at this optimal point can represent both model learning ability and calibration. We propose it as the Trust Index (TI), a complementary evaluation metric to the overall model accuracy. We report extensive experiments on three benchmark image datasets with ten variants of transformer and CNN models. Our results show that our proposed methods can better reflect the model trustworthiness than existing evaluation metrics. We further observe that the model with high overall accuracy does not always yield the high TI, which indicates the necessity of the proposed Trust Index as a complementary metric to the model overall accuracy. The code are available at \url{https://github.com/AoShuang92/optimal_risk}. 

**ID:** 45  
**Title:** Photorealistic and Identity-Preserving Image-Based Emotion Manipulation  with Latent Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03183  
**Abstract:** In this paper, we investigate the emotion manipulation capabilities of diffusion models with "in-the-wild" images, a rather unexplored application area relative to the vast and rapidly growing literature for image-to-image translation tasks. Our proposed method encapsulates several pieces of prior work, with the most important being Latent Diffusion models and text-driven manipulation with CLIP latents. We conduct extensive qualitative and quantitative evaluations on AffectNet, demonstrating the superiority of our approach in terms of image quality and realism, while achieving competitive results relative to emotion translation compared to a variety of GAN-based counterparts. Code is released as a publicly available repo. 

**ID:** 46  
**Title:** Average-Hard Attention Transformers are Constant-Depth Uniform Threshold  Circuits  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03212  
**Abstract:** Transformers have emerged as a widely used neural network model for various natural language processing tasks. Previous research explored their relationship with constant-depth threshold circuits, making two assumptions: average-hard attention and logarithmic precision for internal computations relative to input length. Merrill et al. (2022) prove that average-hard attention transformers recognize languages that fall within the complexity class TC0, denoting the set of languages that can be recognized by constant-depth polynomial-size threshold circuits. Likewise, Merrill and Sabharwal (2023) show that log-precision transformers recognize languages within the class of uniform TC0. This shows that both transformer models can be simulated by constant-depth threshold circuits, with the latter being more robust due to generating a uniform circuit family. Our paper shows that the first result can be extended to yield uniform circuits as well. 

**ID:** 47  
**Title:** Analysis of the Evolution of Advanced Transformer-Based Language Models:  Experiments on Opinion Mining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03235  
**Abstract:** Opinion mining, also known as sentiment analysis, is a subfield of natural language processing (NLP) that focuses on identifying and extracting subjective information in textual material. This can include determining the overall sentiment of a piece of text (e.g., positive or negative), as well as identifying specific emotions or opinions expressed in the text, that involves the use of advanced machine and deep learning techniques. Recently, transformer-based language models make this task of human emotion analysis intuitive, thanks to the attention mechanism and parallel computation. These advantages make such models very powerful on linguistic tasks, unlike recurrent neural networks that spend a lot of time on sequential processing, making them prone to fail when it comes to processing long text. The scope of our paper aims to study the behaviour of the cutting-edge Transformer-based language models on opinion mining and provide a high-level comparison between them to highlight their key particularities. Additionally, our comparative study shows leads and paves the way for production engineers regarding the approach to focus on and is useful for researchers as it provides guidelines for future research subjects. 

**ID:** 48  
**Title:** Mind the Gap: Improving Success Rate of Vision-and-Language Navigation  by Revisiting Oracle Success Routes  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03244  
**Abstract:** Vision-and-Language Navigation (VLN) aims to navigate to the target location by following a given instruction. Unlike existing methods focused on predicting a more accurate action at each step in navigation, in this paper, we make the first attempt to tackle a long-ignored problem in VLN: narrowing the gap between Success Rate (SR) and Oracle Success Rate (OSR). We observe a consistently large gap (up to 9%) on four state-of-the-art VLN methods across two benchmark datasets: R2R and REVERIE. The high OSR indicates the robot agent passes the target location, while the low SR suggests the agent actually fails to stop at the target location at last. Instead of predicting actions directly, we propose to mine the target location from a trajectory given by off-the-shelf VLN models. Specially, we design a multi-module transformer-based model for learning compact discriminative trajectory viewpoint representation, which is used to predict the confidence of being a target location as described in the instruction. The proposed method is evaluated on three widely-adopted datasets: R2R, REVERIE and NDH, and shows promising results, demonstrating the potential for more future research. 

**ID:** 49  
**Title:** TempFuser: Learning Tactical and Agile Flight Maneuvers in Aerial  Dogfights using a Long Short-Term Temporal Fusion Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03257  
**Abstract:** Aerial dogfights necessitate understanding the tactically changing maneuvers from a long-term perspective, along with the rapidly changing aerodynamics from a short-term view. In this paper, we propose a novel long short-term temporal fusion transformer (TempFuser) for a policy network in aerial dogfights. Our method uses two LSTM-based input embeddings to encode long-term, sparse state trajectories, as well as short-term, dense state trajectories. By integrating the two embeddings through a transformer encoder, the method subsequently derives end-to-end flight commands for agile and tactical maneuvers. We formulate a deep reinforcement learning framework to train our TempFuser-based policy model. We then extensively validate our model, demonstrating that it outperforms other baseline models against a diverse range of opponent aircraft in a high-fidelity environment. Our model successfully learns basic fighter maneuvers, human pilot-like tactical maneuvers, and robust supersonic pursuit in low altitudes without explicitly coded prior knowledge. Videos are available at \url{https://sites.google.com/view/tempfuser} 

**ID:** 50  
**Title:** Exploring Different Time-series-Transformer (TST) Architectures: A Case  Study in Battery Life Prediction for Electric Vehicles (EVs)  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03260  
**Abstract:** In recent years, battery technology for electric vehicles (EVs) has been a major focus, with a significant emphasis on developing new battery materials and chemistries. However, accurately predicting key battery parameters, such as state-of-charge (SOC) and temperature, remains a challenge for constructing advanced battery management systems (BMS). Existing battery models do not comprehensively cover all parameters affecting battery performance, including non-battery-related factors like ambient temperature, cabin temperature, elevation, and regenerative braking during EV operation. Due to the difficulty of incorporating these auxiliary parameters into traditional models, a data-driven approach is suggested. Time-series-transformers (TSTs), leveraging multiheaded attention and parallelization-friendly architecture, are explored alongside LSTM models. Novel TST architectures, including encoder TST + decoder LSTM and a hybrid TST-LSTM, are also developed and compared against existing models. A dataset comprising 72 driving trips in a BMW i3 (60 Ah) is used to address battery life prediction in EVs, aiming to create accurate TST models that incorporate environmental, battery, vehicle driving, and heating circuit data to predict SOC and battery temperature for future time steps. 

**ID:** 51  
**Title:** Redundancy-aware Transformer for Video Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03267  
**Abstract:** This paper identifies two kinds of redundancy in the current VideoQA paradigm. Specifically, the current video encoders tend to holistically embed all video clues at different granularities in a hierarchical manner, which inevitably introduces \textit{neighboring-frame redundancy} that can overwhelm detailed visual clues at the object level. Subsequently, prevailing vision-language fusion designs introduce the \textit{cross-modal redundancy} by exhaustively fusing all visual elements with question tokens without explicitly differentiating their pairwise vision-language interactions, thus making a pernicious impact on the answering. 

**ID:** 52  
**Title:** DSformer: A Double Sampling Transformer for Multivariate Time Series  Long-term Prediction  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03274  
**Abstract:** Multivariate time series long-term prediction, which aims to predict the change of data in a long time, can provide references for decision-making. Although transformer-based models have made progress in this field, they usually do not make full use of three features of multivariate time series: global information, local information, and variables correlation. To effectively mine the above three features and establish a high-precision prediction model, we propose a double sampling transformer (DSformer), which consists of the double sampling (DS) block and the temporal variable attention (TVA) block. Firstly, the DS block employs down sampling and piecewise sampling to transform the original series into feature vectors that focus on global information and local information respectively. Then, TVA block uses temporal attention and variable attention to mine these feature vectors from different dimensions and extract key information. Finally, based on a parallel structure, DSformer uses multiple TVA blocks to mine and integrate different features obtained from DS blocks respectively. The integrated feature information is passed to the generative decoder based on a multi-layer perceptron to realize multivariate time series long-term prediction. Experimental results on nine real-world datasets show that DSformer can outperform eight existing baselines. 

**ID:** 53  
**Title:** UniversalNER: Targeted Distillation from Large Language Models for Open  Named Entity Recognition  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03279  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable generalizability, such as understanding arbitrary entities and relations. Instruction tuning has proven effective for distilling LLMs into more cost-efficient models such as Alpaca and Vicuna. Yet such student models still trail the original LLMs by large margins in downstream applications. In this paper, we explore targeted distillation with mission-focused instruction tuning to train student models that can excel in a broad application class such as open information extraction. Using named entity recognition (NER) for case study, we show how ChatGPT can be distilled into much smaller UniversalNER models for open NER. For evaluation, we assemble the largest NER benchmark to date, comprising 43 datasets across 9 diverse domains such as biomedicine, programming, social media, law, finance. Without using any direct supervision, UniversalNER attains remarkable NER accuracy across tens of thousands of entity types, outperforming general instruction-tuned models such as Alpaca and Vicuna by over 30 absolute F1 points in average. With a tiny fraction of parameters, UniversalNER not only acquires ChatGPT's capability in recognizing arbitrary entity types, but also outperforms its NER accuracy by 7-9 absolute F1 points in average. Remarkably, UniversalNER even outperforms by a large margin state-of-the-art multi-task instruction-tuned systems such as InstructUIE, which uses supervised NER examples. We also conduct thorough ablation studies to assess the impact of various components in our distillation approach. We will release the distillation recipe, data, and UniversalNER models to facilitate future research on targeted distillation. 

**ID:** 54  
**Title:** Mirror-NeRF: Learning Neural Radiance Fields for Mirrors with  Whitted-Style Ray Tracing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03280  
**Abstract:** Recently, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has exhibited significant success in novel view synthesis, surface reconstruction, etc. However, since no physical reflection is considered in its rendering pipeline, NeRF mistakes the reflection in the mirror as a separate virtual scene, leading to the inaccurate reconstruction of the mirror and multi-view inconsistent reflections in the mirror. In this paper, we present a novel neural rendering framework, named Mirror-NeRF, which is able to learn accurate geometry and reflection of the mirror and support various scene manipulation applications with mirrors, such as adding new objects or mirrors into the scene and synthesizing the reflections of these new objects in mirrors, controlling mirror roughness, etc. To achieve this goal, we propose a unified radiance field by introducing the reflection probability and tracing rays following the light transport model of Whitted Ray Tracing, and also develop several techniques to facilitate the learning process. Experiments and comparisons on both synthetic and real datasets demonstrate the superiority of our method. The code and supplementary material are available on the project webpage: https://zju3dv.github.io/Mirror-NeRF/. 

**ID:** 55  
**Title:** FLIQS: One-Shot Mixed-Precision Floating-Point and Integer Quantization  Search  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03290  
**Abstract:** Quantization has become a mainstream compression technique for reducing model size, computational requirements, and energy consumption for modern deep neural networks (DNNs). With the improved numerical support in recent hardware, including multiple variants of integer and floating point, mixed-precision quantization has become necessary to achieve high-quality results with low model cost. Prior mixed-precision quantization methods have performed a post-training quantization search, which compromises on accuracy, or a differentiable quantization search, which leads to high memory usage from branching. Therefore, we propose the first one-shot mixed-precision quantization search that eliminates the need for retraining in both integer and low-precision floating point models. We evaluate our floating-point and integer quantization search (FLIQS) on multiple convolutional networks and vision transformer models to discover Pareto-optimal models. Our approach discovers models that improve upon uniform precision, manual mixed-precision, and recent integer quantization search methods. With the proposed integer quantization search, we increase the accuracy of ResNet-18 on ImageNet by 1.31% points and ResNet-50 by 0.90% points with equivalent model cost over previous methods. Additionally, for the first time, we explore a novel mixed-precision floating-point search and improve MobileNetV2 by up to 0.98% points compared to prior state-of-the-art FP8 models. Finally, we extend FLIQS to simultaneously search a joint quantization and neural architecture space and improve the ImageNet accuracy by 2.69% points with similar model cost on a MobileNetV2 search space. 

**ID:** 56  
**Title:** What has ChatGPT read? The origins of archaeological citations used by a  generative artificial intelligence application  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03301  
**Abstract:** The public release of ChatGPT has resulted in considerable publicity and has led to wide-spread discussion of the usefulness and capabilities of generative AI language models. Its ability to extract and summarise data from textual sources and present them as human-like contextual responses makes it an eminently suitable tool to answer questions users might ask. This paper tested what archaeological literature appears to have been included in ChatGPT's training phase. While ChatGPT offered seemingly pertinent references, a large percentage proved to be fictitious. Using cloze analysis to make inferences on the sources 'memorised' by a generative AI model, this paper was unable to prove that ChatGPT had access to the full texts of the genuine references. It can be shown that all references provided by ChatGPT that were found to be genuine have also been cited on Wikipedia pages. This strongly indicates that the source base for at least some of the data is found in those pages. The implications of this in relation to data quality are discussed. 

**ID:** 57  
**Title:** Implicit Graph Neural Diffusion Based on Constrained Dirichlet Energy  Minimization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03306  
**Abstract:** Implicit graph neural networks (GNNs) have emerged as a potential approach to enable GNNs to capture long-range dependencies effectively. However, poorly designed implicit GNN layers can experience over-smoothing or may have limited adaptability to learn data geometry, potentially hindering their performance in graph learning problems. To address these issues, we introduce a geometric framework to design implicit graph diffusion layers based on a parameterized graph Laplacian operator. Our framework allows learning the geometry of vertex and edge spaces, as well as the graph gradient operator from data. We further show how implicit GNN layers can be viewed as the fixed-point solution of a Dirichlet energy minimization problem and give conditions under which it may suffer from over-smoothing. To overcome the over-smoothing problem, we design our implicit graph diffusion layer as the solution of a Dirichlet energy minimization problem with constraints on vertex features, enabling it to trade off smoothing with the preservation of node feature information. With an appropriate hyperparameter set to be larger than the largest eigenvalue of the parameterized graph Laplacian, our framework guarantees a unique equilibrium and quick convergence. Our models demonstrate better performance than leading implicit and explicit GNNs on benchmark datasets for node and graph classification tasks, with substantial accuracy improvements observed for some datasets. 

**ID:** 58  
**Title:** When GPT Meets Program Analysis: Towards Intelligent Detection of Smart  Contract Logic Vulnerabilities in GPTScan  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03314  
**Abstract:** Smart contracts are prone to various vulnerabilities, leading to substantial financial losses over time. Current analysis tools mainly target vulnerabilities with fixed control or dataflow patterns, such as re-entrancy and integer overflow. However, a recent study on Web3 security bugs revealed that about 80% of these bugs cannot be audited by existing tools due to the lack of domain-specific property description and checking. Given recent advances in Generative Pretraining Transformer (GPT), it is worth exploring how GPT could aid in detecting logic vulnerabilities in smart contracts. In this paper, we propose GPTScan, the first tool combining GPT with static analysis for smart contract logic vulnerability detection. Instead of relying solely on GPT to identify vulnerabilities, which can lead to high false positives and is limited by GPT's pre-trained knowledge, we utilize GPT as a versatile code understanding tool. By breaking down each logic vulnerability type into scenarios and properties, GPTScan matches candidate vulnerabilities with GPT. To enhance accuracy, GPTScan further instructs GPT to intelligently recognize key variables and statements, which are then validated by static confirmation. Evaluation on diverse datasets with around 400 contract projects and 3K Solidity files shows that GPTScan achieves high precision (over 90%) for token contracts and acceptable precision (57.14%) for large projects like Web3Bugs. It effectively detects groundtruth logic vulnerabilities with a recall of over 80%, including 9 new vulnerabilities missed by human auditors. GPTScan is fast and cost-effective, taking an average of 14.39 seconds and 0.01 USD to scan per thousand lines of Solidity code. Moreover, static confirmation helps GPTScan reduce two-thirds of false positives. 

**ID:** 59  
**Title:** Part-Aware Transformer for Generalizable Person Re-identification  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03322  
**Abstract:** Domain generalization person re-identification (DG-ReID) aims to train a model on source domains and generalize well on unseen domains. Vision Transformer usually yields better generalization ability than common CNN networks under distribution shifts. However, Transformer-based ReID models inevitably over-fit to domain-specific biases due to the supervised learning strategy on the source domain. We observe that while the global images of different IDs should have different features, their similar local parts (e.g., black backpack) are not bounded by this constraint. Motivated by this, we propose a pure Transformer model (termed Part-aware Transformer) for DG-ReID by designing a proxy task, named Cross-ID Similarity Learning (CSL), to mine local visual information shared by different IDs. This proxy task allows the model to learn generic features because it only cares about the visual similarity of the parts regardless of the ID labels, thus alleviating the side effect of domain-specific biases. Based on the local similarity obtained in CSL, a Part-guided Self-Distillation (PSD) is proposed to further improve the generalization of global features. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance under most DG ReID settings. Under the Market$\to$Duke setting, our method exceeds state-of-the-art by 10.9% and 12.8% in Rank1 and mAP, respectively. The code is available at https://github.com/liyuke65535/Part-Aware-Transformer. 

**ID:** 60  
**Title:** Generative AI trial for nonviolent communication mediation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03326  
**Abstract:** Aiming for a mixbiotic society that combines freedom and solidarity among people with diverse values, I focused on nonviolent communication (NVC) that enables compassionate giving in various situations of social division and conflict, and tried a generative AI for it. Specifically, ChatGPT was used in place of the traditional certified trainer to test the possibility of mediating (modifying) input sentences in four processes: observation, feelings, needs, and requests. The results indicate that there is potential for the application of generative AI, although not yet at a practical level. Suggested improvement guidelines included adding model responses, relearning revised responses, specifying appropriate terminology for each process, and re-asking for required information. The use of generative AI will be useful initially to assist certified trainers, to prepare for and review events and workshops, and in the future to support consensus building and cooperative behavior in digital democracy, platform cooperatives, and cyber-human social co-operating systems. It is hoped that the widespread use of NVC mediation using generative AI will lead to the early realization of a mixbiotic society. 

**ID:** 61  
**Title:** A Hybrid CNN-Transformer Architecture with Frequency Domain Contrastive  Learning for Image Deraining  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03340  
**Abstract:** Image deraining is a challenging task that involves restoring degraded images affected by rain streaks. 

**ID:** 62  
**Title:** SciGraphQA: A Large-Scale Synthetic Multi-Turn Question-Answering  Dataset for Scientific Graphs  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03349  
**Abstract:** In this work, we present SciGraphQA, a synthetic multi-turn question-answer dataset related to academic graphs. SciGraphQA is 13 times larger than ChartVQA, the previously largest chart-visual question-answering dataset. It is also the largest open-sourced chart VQA dataset with non-synthetic charts. To build our dataset, we selected 290,000 Computer Science or Machine Learning ArXiv papers published between 2010 and 2020, and then used Palm-2 to generate 295K samples of open-vocabulary multi-turn question-answering dialogues about the graphs. As context, we provided the text-only Palm-2 with paper title, abstract, paragraph mentioning the graph, and rich text contextual data from the graph itself, obtaining dialogues with an average 2.23 question-answer turns for each graph. We asked GPT-4 to assess the matching quality of our question-answer turns given the paper's context, obtaining an average rating of 8.7/10 on our 3K test set. We evaluated the 0-shot capability of the most popular MLLM models such as LLaVa, mPLUGowl, BLIP-2, and openFlamingo's on our dataset, finding LLaVA-13B being the most performant with a CIDEr score of 0.08. We further enriched the question prompts for LLAVA by including the serialized data tables extracted from the graphs using the DePlot model, boosting LLaVA's 0-shot CIDEr to 0.15. To verify the validity of our dataset, we also fine-tuned LLaVa using our dataset, reaching a substantially higher CIDEr score of 0.26. We anticipate further accuracy improvement by including segmentation mask tokens and leveraging larger LLM backbones coupled with emergent prompting techniques. Our code and data are open-sourced. 

**ID:** 63  
**Title:** Distortion-aware Transformer in 360 Salient Object Detection  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03359  
**Abstract:** With the emergence of VR and AR, 360{\deg} data attracts increasing attention from the computer vision and multimedia communities. Typically, 360{\deg} data is projected into 2D ERP (equirectangular projection) images for feature extraction. However, existing methods cannot handle the distortions that result from the projection, hindering the development of 360-data-based tasks. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a Transformer-based model called DATFormer to address the distortion problem. We tackle this issue from two perspectives. Firstly, we introduce two distortion-adaptive modules. The first is a Distortion Mapping Module, which guides the model to pre-adapt to distorted features globally. The second module is a Distortion-Adaptive Attention Block that reduces local distortions on multi-scale features. Secondly, to exploit the unique characteristics of 360{\deg} data, we present a learnable relation matrix and use it as part of the positional embedding to further improve performance. Extensive experiments are conducted on three public datasets, and the results show that our model outperforms existing 2D SOD (salient object detection) and 360 SOD methods. 

**ID:** 64  
**Title:** Coupling Symbolic Reasoning with Language Modeling for Efficient  Longitudinal Understanding of Unstructured Electronic Medical Records  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03360  
**Abstract:** The application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in healthcare has been revolutionary, especially with the recent advancements in transformer-based Large Language Models (LLMs). However, the task of understanding unstructured electronic medical records remains a challenge given the nature of the records (e.g., disorganization, inconsistency, and redundancy) and the inability of LLMs to derive reasoning paradigms that allow for comprehensive understanding of medical variables. In this work, we examine the power of coupling symbolic reasoning with language modeling toward improved understanding of unstructured clinical texts. We show that such a combination improves the extraction of several medical variables from unstructured records. In addition, we show that the state-of-the-art commercially-free LLMs enjoy retrieval capabilities comparable to those provided by their commercial counterparts. Finally, we elaborate on the need for LLM steering through the application of symbolic reasoning as the exclusive use of LLMs results in the lowest performance. 

**ID:** 65  
**Title:** Dual Aggregation Transformer for Image Super-Resolution  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03364  
**Abstract:** Transformer has recently gained considerable popularity in low-level vision tasks, including image super-resolution (SR). These networks utilize self-attention along different dimensions, spatial or channel, and achieve impressive performance. This inspires us to combine the two dimensions in Transformer for a more powerful representation capability. Based on the above idea, we propose a novel Transformer model, Dual Aggregation Transformer (DAT), for image SR. Our DAT aggregates features across spatial and channel dimensions, in the inter-block and intra-block dual manner. Specifically, we alternately apply spatial and channel self-attention in consecutive Transformer blocks. The alternate strategy enables DAT to capture the global context and realize inter-block feature aggregation. Furthermore, we propose the adaptive interaction module (AIM) and the spatial-gate feed-forward network (SGFN) to achieve intra-block feature aggregation. AIM complements two self-attention mechanisms from corresponding dimensions. Meanwhile, SGFN introduces additional non-linear spatial information in the feed-forward network. Extensive experiments show that our DAT surpasses current methods. Code and models are obtainable at https://github.com/zhengchen1999/DAT. 

**ID:** 66  
**Title:** DiT: Efficient Vision Transformers with Dynamic Token Routing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03409  
**Abstract:** Recently, the tokens of images share the same static data flow in many dense networks. However, challenges arise from the variance among the objects in images, such as large variations in the spatial scale and difficulties of recognition for visual entities. In this paper, we propose a data-dependent token routing strategy to elaborate the routing paths of image tokens for Dynamic Vision Transformer, dubbed DiT. The proposed framework generates a data-dependent path per token, adapting to the object scales and visual discrimination of tokens. In feed-forward, the differentiable routing gates are designed to select the scaling paths and feature transformation paths for image tokens, leading to multi-path feature propagation. In this way, the impact of object scales and visual discrimination of image representation can be carefully tuned. Moreover, the computational cost can be further reduced by giving budget constraints to the routing gate and early-stopping of feature extraction. In experiments, our DiT achieves superior performance and favorable complexity/accuracy trade-offs than many SoTA methods on ImageNet classification, object detection, instance segmentation, and semantic segmentation. Particularly, the DiT-B5 obtains 84.8\% top-1 Acc on ImageNet with 10.3 GFLOPs, which is 1.0\% higher than that of the SoTA method with similar computational complexity. These extensive results demonstrate that DiT can serve as versatile backbones for various vision tasks. 

**ID:** 67  
**Title:** GaFET: Learning Geometry-aware Facial Expression Translation from  In-The-Wild Images  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03413  
**Abstract:** While current face animation methods can manipulate expressions individually, they suffer from several limitations. The expressions manipulated by some motion-based facial reenactment models are crude. Other ideas modeled with facial action units cannot generalize to arbitrary expressions not covered by annotations. In this paper, we introduce a novel Geometry-aware Facial Expression Translation (GaFET) framework, which is based on parametric 3D facial representations and can stably decoupled expression. Among them, a Multi-level Feature Aligned Transformer is proposed to complement non-geometric facial detail features while addressing the alignment challenge of spatial features. Further, we design a De-expression model based on StyleGAN, in order to reduce the learning difficulty of GaFET in unpaired "in-the-wild" images. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate that we achieve higher-quality and more accurate facial expression transfer results compared to state-of-the-art methods, and demonstrate applicability of various poses and complex textures. Besides, videos or annotated training data are omitted, making our method easier to use and generalize. 

**ID:** 68  
**Title:** CAESURA: Language Models as Multi-Modal Query Planners  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03424  
**Abstract:** Traditional query planners translate SQL queries into query plans to be executed over relational data. However, it is impossible to query other data modalities, such as images, text, or video stored in modern data systems such as data lakes using these query planners. In this paper, we propose Language-Model-Driven Query Planning, a new paradigm of query planning that uses Language Models to translate natural language queries into executable query plans. Different from relational query planners, the resulting query plans can contain complex operators that are able to process arbitrary modalities. As part of this paper, we present a first GPT-4 based prototype called CEASURA and show the general feasibility of this idea on two datasets. Finally, we discuss several ideas to improve the query planning capabilities of today's Language Models. 

**ID:** 69  
**Title:** RCMHA: Relative Convolutional Multi-Head Attention for Natural Language  Modelling  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03429  
**Abstract:** The Attention module finds common usage in language modeling, presenting distinct challenges within the broader scope of Natural Language Processing. Multi-Head Attention (MHA) employs an absolute positional encoding, which imposes limitations on token length and entails substantial memory consumption during the processing of embedded inputs. The current remedy proposed by researchers involves the utilization of relative positional encoding, similar to the approach adopted in Transformer-XL or Relative Multi-Head Attention (RMHA), albeit the employed architecture consumes considerable memory resources. To address these challenges, this study endeavors to refine MHA, leveraging relative positional encoding in conjunction with the Depth-Wise Convolutional Layer architecture, which promises heightened accuracy coupled with minimized memory usage. The proposed RCMHA framework entails the modification of two integral components: firstly, the application of the Depth-Wise Convolutional Layer to the input embedding, encompassing Query, Key, and Value parameters; secondly, the incorporation of Relative Positional Encoding into the attention scoring phase, harmoniously integrated with Scaled Dot-Product Attention. Empirical experiments underscore the advantages of RCMHA, wherein it exhibits superior accuracy, boasting a score of 0.572 in comparison to alternative attention modules such as MHA, Multi-DConv-Head Attention (MDHA), and RMHA. Concerning memory utilization, RMHA emerges as the most frugal, demonstrating an average consumption of 2.98 GB, surpassing RMHA which necessitates 3.5 GB. 

**ID:** 70  
**Title:** Numerical Reconstruction of Diffusion and Potential Coefficients from  Two Observations: Decoupled Recovery and Error Estimates  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03433  
**Abstract:** The focus of this paper is on the concurrent reconstruction of both the diffusion and potential coefficients present in an elliptic/parabolic equation, utilizing two internal measurements of the solutions. A decoupled algorithm is constructed to sequentially recover these two parameters. In the first step, we implement a straightforward reformulation that results in a standard problem of identifying the diffusion coefficient. This coefficient is then numerically recovered, with no requirement for knowledge of the potential, by utilizing an output least-square method coupled with finite element discretization. In the second step, the previously recovered diffusion coefficient is employed to reconstruct the potential coefficient, applying a method similar to the first step. Our approach is stimulated by a constructive conditional stability, and we provide rigorous a priori error estimates in $L^2(\Omega)$ for the recovered diffusion and potential coefficients. Our approach is stimulated by a constructive conditional stability, and we provide rigorous a priori error estimates in $L^2(\Omega)$ for the recovered diffusion and potential coefficients. To derive these estimates, we develop a weighted energy argument and suitable positivity conditions. These estimates offer a beneficial guide for choosing regularization parameters and discretization mesh sizes, in accordance with the noise level. Some numerical experiments are presented to demonstrate the accuracy of the numerical scheme and support our theoretical results. 

**ID:** 71  
**Title:** Positional Embeddings for Solving PDEs with Evolutional Deep Neural  Networks  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03461  
**Abstract:** This work extends the paradigm of evolutional deep neural networks (EDNNs) to solving parametric time-dependent partial differential equations (PDEs) on domains with geometric structure. By introducing positional embeddings based on eigenfunctions of the Laplace-Beltrami operator, geometric properties are encoded intrinsically and Dirichlet, Neumann and periodic boundary conditions of the PDE solution are enforced directly through the neural network architecture. The proposed embeddings lead to improved error convergence for static PDEs and extend EDNNs towards computational domains of realistic complexity. Several steps are taken to improve performance of EDNNs: Solving the EDNN update equation with a Krylov solver avoids the explicit assembly of Jacobians and enables scaling to larger neural networks. Computational efficiency is further improved by an ad-hoc active sampling scheme that uses the PDE dynamics to effectively sample collocation points. A modified linearly implicit Rosenbrock method is proposed to alleviate the time step requirements of stiff PDEs. Lastly, a completely training-free approach, which automatically enforces initial conditions and only requires time integration, is compared against EDNNs that are trained on the initial conditions. We report results for the Korteweg-de Vries equation, a nonlinear heat equation and (nonlinear) advection-diffusion problems on domains with and without holes and various boundary conditions, to demonstrate the effectiveness of the method. The numerical results highlight EDNNs as a promising surrogate model for parametrized PDEs with slow decaying Kolmogorov n-width. 

**ID:** 72  
**Title:** DiffSynth: Latent In-Iteration Deflickering for Realistic Video  Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03463  
**Abstract:** In recent years, diffusion models have emerged as the most powerful approach in image synthesis. However, applying these models directly to video synthesis presents challenges, as it often leads to noticeable flickering contents. Although recently proposed zero-shot methods can alleviate flicker to some extent, we still struggle to generate coherent videos. In this paper, we propose DiffSynth, a novel approach that aims to convert image synthesis pipelines to video synthesis pipelines. DiffSynth consists of two key components: a latent in-iteration deflickering framework and a video deflickering algorithm. The latent in-iteration deflickering framework applies video deflickering to the latent space of diffusion models, effectively preventing flicker accumulation in intermediate steps. Additionally, we propose a video deflickering algorithm, named patch blending algorithm, that remaps objects in different frames and blends them together to enhance video consistency. One of the notable advantages of DiffSynth is its general applicability to various video synthesis tasks, including text-guided video stylization, fashion video synthesis, image-guided video stylization, video restoring, and 3D rendering. In the task of text-guided video stylization, we make it possible to synthesize high-quality videos without cherry-picking. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of DiffSynth. All videos can be viewed on our project page. Source codes will also be released. 

**ID:** 73  
**Title:** Deepfake Detection: A Comparative Analysis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03471  
**Abstract:** This paper present a comprehensive comparative analysis of supervised and self-supervised models for deepfake detection. We evaluate eight supervised deep learning architectures and two transformer-based models pre-trained using self-supervised strategies (DINO, CLIP) on four benchmarks (FakeAVCeleb, CelebDF-V2, DFDC, and FaceForensics++). Our analysis includes intra-dataset and inter-dataset evaluations, examining the best performing models, generalisation capabilities, and impact of augmentations. We also investigate the trade-off between model size and performance. Our main goal is to provide insights into the effectiveness of different deep learning architectures (transformers, CNNs), training strategies (supervised, self-supervised), and deepfake detection benchmarks. These insights can help guide the development of more accurate and reliable deepfake detection systems, which are crucial in mitigating the harmful impact of deepfakes on individuals and society. 

**ID:** 74  
**Title:** COPA: Efficient Vision-Language Pre-training Through Collaborative  Object- and Patch-Text Alignment  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03475  
**Abstract:** Vision-Language Pre-training (VLP) methods based on object detection enjoy the rich knowledge of fine-grained object-text alignment but at the cost of computationally expensive inference. Recent Visual-Transformer (ViT)-based approaches circumvent this issue while struggling with long visual sequences without detailed cross-modal alignment information. This paper introduces a ViT-based VLP technique that efficiently incorporates object information through a novel patch-text alignment mechanism. Specifically, we convert object-level signals into patch-level ones and devise a Patch-Text Alignment pre-training task (PTA) to learn a text-aware patch detector. By using off-the-shelf delicate object annotations in 5\% training images, we jointly train PTA with other conventional VLP objectives in an end-to-end manner, bypassing the high computational cost of object detection and yielding an effective patch detector that accurately detects text-relevant patches, thus considerably reducing patch sequences and accelerating computation within the ViT backbone. Our experiments on a variety of widely-used benchmarks reveal that our method achieves a speedup of nearly 88\% compared to prior VLP models while maintaining competitive or superior performance on downstream tasks with similar model size and data scale. 

**ID:** 75  
**Title:** Balanced Face Dataset: Guiding StyleGAN to Generate Labeled Synthetic  Face Image Dataset for Underrepresented Group  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03495  
**Abstract:** For a machine learning model to generalize effectively to unseen data within a particular problem domain, it is well-understood that the data needs to be of sufficient size and representative of real-world scenarios. Nonetheless, real-world datasets frequently have overrepresented and underrepresented groups. One solution to mitigate bias in machine learning is to leverage a diverse and representative dataset. Training a model on a dataset that covers all demographics is crucial to reducing bias in machine learning. However, collecting and labeling large-scale datasets has been challenging, prompting the use of synthetic data generation and active labeling to decrease the costs of manual labeling. The focus of this study was to generate a robust face image dataset using the StyleGAN model. In order to achieve a balanced distribution of the dataset among different demographic groups, a synthetic dataset was created by controlling the generation process of StyleGaN and annotated for different downstream tasks. 

**ID:** 76  
**Title:** Exploring ChatGPT's Empathic Abilities  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03527  
**Abstract:** Empathy is often understood as the ability to share and understand another individual's state of mind or emotion. With the increasing use of chatbots in various domains, e.g., children seeking help with homework, individuals looking for medical advice, and people using the chatbot as a daily source of everyday companionship, the importance of empathy in human-computer interaction has become more apparent. Therefore, our study investigates the extent to which ChatGPT based on GPT-3.5 can exhibit empathetic responses and emotional expressions. We analyzed the following three aspects: (1) understanding and expressing emotions, (2) parallel emotional response, and (3) empathic personality. Thus, we not only evaluate ChatGPT on various empathy aspects and compare it with human behavior but also show a possible way to analyze the empathy of chatbots in general. Our results show, that in 91.7% of the cases, ChatGPT was able to correctly identify emotions and produces appropriate answers. In conversations, ChatGPT reacted with a parallel emotion in 70.7% of cases. The empathic capabilities of ChatGPT were evaluated using a set of five questionnaires covering different aspects of empathy. Even though the results indicate that the empathic abilities of ChatGPT are still below the average of healthy humans, the scores are better than those of people who have been diagnosed with Asperger syndrome / high-functioning autism. 

**ID:** 77  
**Title:** Zhongjing: Enhancing the Chinese Medical Capabilities of Large Language  Model through Expert Feedback and Real-world Multi-turn Dialogue  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03549  
**Abstract:** Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable breakthroughs in understanding and responding to user intents. However, their performance lag behind general use cases in some expertise domains, such as Chinese medicine. Existing efforts to incorporate Chinese medicine into LLMs rely on Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) with single-turn and distilled dialogue data. These models lack the ability for doctor-like proactive inquiry and multi-turn comprehension and cannot always align responses with safety and professionalism experts. In this work, we introduce Zhongjing, the first Chinese medical LLaMA-based LLM that implements an entire training pipeline from pre-training to reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF). Additionally, we introduce a Chinese multi-turn medical dialogue dataset of 70,000 authentic doctor-patient dialogues, CMtMedQA, which significantly enhances the model's capability for complex dialogue and proactive inquiry initiation. We define a refined annotation rule and evaluation criteria given the biomedical domain's unique characteristics. Results show that our model outperforms baselines in various capacities and matches the performance of ChatGPT in a few abilities, despite having 50x training data with previous best model and 100x parameters with ChatGPT. RLHF further improves the model's instruction-following ability and safety. We also release our code, datasets and model for further research. 

**ID:** 78  
**Title:** Mondrian: Prompt Abstraction Attack Against Large Language Models for  Cheaper API Pricing  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03558  
**Abstract:** The Machine Learning as a Service (MLaaS) market is rapidly expanding and becoming more mature. For example, OpenAI's ChatGPT is an advanced large language model (LLM) that generates responses for various queries with associated fees. Although these models can deliver satisfactory performance, they are far from perfect. Researchers have long studied the vulnerabilities and limitations of LLMs, such as adversarial attacks and model toxicity. Inevitably, commercial ML models are also not exempt from such issues, which can be problematic as MLaaS continues to grow. In this paper, we discover a new attack strategy against LLM APIs, namely the prompt abstraction attack. Specifically, we propose Mondrian, a simple and straightforward method that abstracts sentences, which can lower the cost of using LLM APIs. In this approach, the adversary first creates a pseudo API (with a lower established price) to serve as the proxy of the target API (with a higher established price). Next, the pseudo API leverages Mondrian to modify the user query, obtain the abstracted response from the target API, and forward it back to the end user. Our results show that Mondrian successfully reduces user queries' token length ranging from 13% to 23% across various tasks, including text classification, generation, and question answering. Meanwhile, these abstracted queries do not significantly affect the utility of task-specific and general language models like ChatGPT. Mondrian also reduces instruction prompts' token length by at least 11% without compromising output quality. As a result, the prompt abstraction attack enables the adversary to profit without bearing the cost of API development and deployment. 

**ID:** 79  
**Title:** Topological Interpretations of GPT-3  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03565  
**Abstract:** This is an experiential study of investigating a consistent method for deriving the correlation between sentence vector and semantic meaning of a sentence. We first used three state-of-the-art word/sentence embedding methods including GPT-3, Word2Vec, and Sentence-BERT, to embed plain text sentence strings into high dimensional spaces. Then we compute the pairwise distance between any possible combination of two sentence vectors in an embedding space and map them into a matrix. Based on each distance matrix, we compute the correlation of distances of a sentence vector with respect to the other sentence vectors in an embedding space. Then we compute the correlation of each pair of the distance matrices. We observed correlations of the same sentence in different embedding spaces and correlations of different sentences in the same embedding space. These observations are consistent with our hypothesis and take us to the next stage. 

**ID:** 80  
**Title:** AvatarVerse: High-quality & Stable 3D Avatar Creation from Text and Pose  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03610  
**Abstract:** Creating expressive, diverse and high-quality 3D avatars from highly customized text descriptions and pose guidance is a challenging task, due to the intricacy of modeling and texturing in 3D that ensure details and various styles (realistic, fictional, etc). We present AvatarVerse, a stable pipeline for generating expressive high-quality 3D avatars from nothing but text descriptions and pose guidance. In specific, we introduce a 2D diffusion model conditioned on DensePose signal to establish 3D pose control of avatars through 2D images, which enhances view consistency from partially observed scenarios. It addresses the infamous Janus Problem and significantly stablizes the generation process. Moreover, we propose a progressive high-resolution 3D synthesis strategy, which obtains substantial improvement over the quality of the created 3D avatars. To this end, the proposed AvatarVerse pipeline achieves zero-shot 3D modeling of 3D avatars that are not only more expressive, but also in higher quality and fidelity than previous works. Rigorous qualitative evaluations and user studies showcase AvatarVerse's superiority in synthesizing high-fidelity 3D avatars, leading to a new standard in high-quality and stable 3D avatar creation. Our project page is: https://avatarverse3d.github.io 

**ID:** 81  
**Title:** KITLM: Domain-Specific Knowledge InTegration into Language Models for  Question Answering  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03638  
**Abstract:** Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance in a wide range of natural language tasks. However, as these models continue to grow in size, they face significant challenges in terms of computational costs. Additionally, LLMs often lack efficient domain-specific understanding, which is particularly crucial in specialized fields such as aviation and healthcare. To boost the domain-specific understanding, we propose, KITLM, a novel knowledge base integration approach into language model through relevant information infusion. By integrating pertinent knowledge, not only the performance of the language model is greatly enhanced, but the model size requirement is also significantly reduced while achieving comparable performance. Our proposed knowledge-infused model surpasses the performance of both GPT-3.5-turbo and the state-of-the-art knowledge infusion method, SKILL, achieving over 1.5 times improvement in exact match scores on the MetaQA. KITLM showed a similar performance boost in the aviation domain with AeroQA. The drastic performance improvement of KITLM over the existing methods can be attributed to the infusion of relevant knowledge while mitigating noise. In addition, we release two curated datasets to accelerate knowledge infusion research in specialized fields: a) AeroQA, a new benchmark dataset designed for multi-hop question-answering within the aviation domain, and b) Aviation Corpus, a dataset constructed from unstructured text extracted from the National Transportation Safety Board reports. Our research contributes to advancing the field of domain-specific language understanding and showcases the potential of knowledge infusion techniques in improving the performance of language models on question-answering. 

**ID:** 82  
**Title:** Emotionally Numb or Empathetic? Evaluating How LLMs Feel Using  EmotionBench  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03656  
**Abstract:** Recently, the community has witnessed the advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs), which have shown remarkable performance on various downstream tasks. Led by powerful models like ChatGPT and Claude, LLMs are revolutionizing how users engage with software, assuming more than mere tools but intelligent assistants. Consequently, evaluating LLMs' anthropomorphic capabilities becomes increasingly important in contemporary discourse. Utilizing the emotion appraisal theory from psychology, we propose to evaluate the empathy ability of LLMs, i.e., how their feelings change when presented with specific situations. After a careful and comprehensive survey, we collect a dataset containing over 400 situations that have proven effective in eliciting the eight emotions central to our study. Categorizing the situations into 36 factors, we conduct a human evaluation involving more than 1,200 subjects worldwide. With the human evaluation results as references, our evaluation includes five LLMs, covering both commercial and open-source models, including variations in model sizes, featuring the latest iterations, such as GPT-4 and LLaMA 2. A conclusion can be drawn from the results that, despite several misalignments, LLMs can generally respond appropriately to certain situations. Nevertheless, they fall short in alignment with the emotional behaviors of human beings and cannot establish connections between similar situations. Our collected dataset of situations, the human evaluation results, and the code of our testing framework, dubbed EmotionBench, is made publicly in https://github.com/CUHK-ARISE/EmotionBench. We aspire to contribute to the advancement of LLMs regarding better alignment with the emotional behaviors of human beings, thereby enhancing their utility and applicability as intelligent assistants. 

**ID:** 83  
**Title:** Detecting Spells in Fantasy Literature with a Transformer Based  Artificial Intelligence  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03660  
**Abstract:** Transformer architectures and models have made significant progress in language-based tasks. In this area, is BERT one of the most widely used and freely available transformer architecture. In our work, we use BERT for context-based phrase recognition of magic spells in the Harry Potter novel series. Spells are a common part of active magic in fantasy novels. Typically, spells are used in a specific context to achieve a supernatural effect. A series of investigations were conducted to see if a Transformer architecture could recognize such phrases based on their context in the Harry Potter saga. For our studies a pre-trained BERT model was used and fine-tuned utilising different datasets and training methods to identify the searched context. By considering different approaches for sequence classification as well as token classification, it is shown that the context of spells can be recognised. According to our investigations, the examined sequence length for fine-tuning and validation of the model plays a significant role in context recognition. Based on this, we have investigated whether spells have overarching properties that allow a transfer of the neural network models to other fantasy universes as well. The application of our model showed promising results and is worth to be deepened in subsequent studies. 

**ID:** 84  
**Title:** Diffusion Model in Causal Inference with Unmeasured Confounders  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03669  
**Abstract:** We study how to extend the use of the diffusion model to answer the causal question from the observational data under the existence of unmeasured confounders. In Pearl's framework of using a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) to capture the causal intervention, a Diffusion-based Causal Model (DCM) was proposed incorporating the diffusion model to answer the causal questions more accurately, assuming that all of the confounders are observed. However, unmeasured confounders in practice exist, which hinders DCM from being applicable. To alleviate this limitation of DCM, we propose an extended model called Backdoor Criterion based DCM (BDCM), whose idea is rooted in the Backdoor criterion to find the variables in DAG to be included in the decoding process of the diffusion model so that we can extend DCM to the case with unmeasured confounders. Synthetic data experiment demonstrates that our proposed model captures the counterfactual distribution more precisely than DCM under the unmeasured confounders. 

**ID:** 85  
**Title:** Improving FHB Screening in Wheat Breeding Using an Efficient Transformer  Model  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03670  
**Abstract:** Fusarium head blight is a devastating disease that causes significant economic losses annually on small grains. Efficiency, accuracy, and timely detection of FHB in the resistance screening are critical for wheat and barley breeding programs. In recent years, various image processing techniques have been developed using supervised machine learning algorithms for the early detection of FHB. The state-of-the-art convolutional neural network-based methods, such as U-Net, employ a series of encoding blocks to create a local representation and a series of decoding blocks to capture the semantic relations. However, these methods are not often capable of long-range modeling dependencies inside the input data, and their ability to model multi-scale objects with significant variations in texture and shape is limited. Vision transformers as alternative architectures with innate global self-attention mechanisms for sequence-to-sequence prediction, due to insufficient low-level details, may also limit localization capabilities. To overcome these limitations, a new Context Bridge is proposed to integrate the local representation capability of the U-Net network in the transformer model. In addition, the standard attention mechanism of the original transformer is replaced with Efficient Self-attention, which is less complicated than other state-of-the-art methods. To train the proposed network, 12,000 wheat images from an FHB-inoculated wheat field at the SDSU research farm in Volga, SD, were captured. In addition to healthy and unhealthy plants, these images encompass various stages of the disease. A team of expert pathologists annotated the images for training and evaluating the developed model. As a result, the effectiveness of the transformer-based method for FHB-disease detection, through extensive experiments across typical tasks for plant image segmentation, is demonstrated. 

**ID:** 86  
**Title:** Video-based Person Re-identification with Long Short-Term Representation  Learning  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03703  
**Abstract:** Video-based person Re-Identification (V-ReID) aims to retrieve specific persons from raw videos captured by non-overlapped cameras. As a fundamental task, it spreads many multimedia and computer vision applications. However, due to the variations of persons and scenes, there are still many obstacles that must be overcome for high performance. In this work, we notice that both the long-term and short-term information of persons are important for robust video representations. Thus, we propose a novel deep learning framework named Long Short-Term Representation Learning (LSTRL) for effective V-ReID. More specifically, to extract long-term representations, we propose a Multi-granularity Appearance Extractor (MAE), in which four granularity appearances are effectively captured across multiple frames. Meanwhile, to extract short-term representations, we propose a Bi-direction Motion Estimator (BME), in which reciprocal motion information is efficiently extracted from consecutive frames. The MAE and BME are plug-and-play and can be easily inserted into existing networks for efficient feature learning. As a result, they significantly improve the feature representation ability for V-ReID. Extensive experiments on three widely used benchmarks show that our proposed approach can deliver better performances than most state-of-the-arts. 

**ID:** 87  
**Title:** Communication-Efficient Framework for Distributed Image Semantic  Wireless Transmission  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03713  
**Abstract:** Multi-node communication, which refers to the interaction among multiple devices, has attracted lots of attention in many Internet-of-Things (IoT) scenarios. However, its huge amounts of data flows and inflexibility for task extension have triggered the urgent requirement of communication-efficient distributed data transmission frameworks. In this paper, inspired by the great superiorities on bandwidth reduction and task adaptation of semantic communications, we propose a federated learning-based semantic communication (FLSC) framework for multi-task distributed image transmission with IoT devices. Federated learning enables the design of independent semantic communication link of each user while further improves the semantic extraction and task performance through global aggregation. Each link in FLSC is composed of a hierarchical vision transformer (HVT)-based extractor and a task-adaptive translator for coarse-to-fine semantic extraction and meaning translation according to specific tasks. In order to extend the FLSC into more realistic conditions, we design a channel state information-based multiple-input multiple-output transmission module to combat channel fading and noise. Simulation results show that the coarse semantic information can deal with a range of image-level tasks. Moreover, especially in low signal-to-noise ratio and channel bandwidth ratio regimes, FLSC evidently outperforms the traditional scheme, e.g. about 10 peak signal-to-noise ratio gain in the 3 dB channel condition. 

**ID:** 88  
**Title:** Superconvergence analysis of interior penalty discontinuous Galerkin  method for a class of time-fractional diffusion problems  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03715  
**Abstract:** In this study, we consider a class of non-autonomous time-fractional partial advection-diffusion-reaction (TF-ADR) equations with Caputo type fractional derivative. To obtain the numerical solution of the model problem, we apply the non-symmetric interior penalty Galerkin (NIPG) method in space on a uniform mesh and the L1-scheme in time on a graded mesh. It is demonstrated that the computed solution is discretely stable. Superconvergence of error estimates for the proposed method are obtained using the discrete energy-norm. Also, we have applied the proposed method to solve semilinear problems after linearizing by the Newton linearization process. The theoretical results are verified through numerical experiments. 

**ID:** 89  
**Title:** Tiny LVLM-eHub: Early Multimodal Experiments with Bard  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03729  
**Abstract:** Recent advancements in Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have demonstrated significant progress in tackling complex multimodal tasks. Among these cutting-edge developments, Google's Bard stands out for its remarkable multimodal capabilities, promoting comprehensive comprehension and reasoning across various domains. This work presents an early and holistic evaluation of LVLMs' multimodal abilities, with a particular focus on Bard, by proposing a lightweight variant of LVLM-eHub, named Tiny LVLM-eHub. In comparison to the vanilla version, Tiny LVLM-eHub possesses several appealing properties. Firstly, it provides a systematic assessment of six categories of multimodal capabilities, including visual perception, visual knowledge acquisition, visual reasoning, visual commonsense, object hallucination, and embodied intelligence, through quantitative evaluation of $42$ standard text-related visual benchmarks. Secondly, it conducts an in-depth analysis of LVLMs' predictions using the ChatGPT Ensemble Evaluation (CEE), which leads to a robust and accurate evaluation and exhibits improved alignment with human evaluation compared to the word matching approach. Thirdly, it comprises a mere $2.1$K image-text pairs, facilitating ease of use for practitioners to evaluate their own offline LVLMs. Through extensive experimental analysis, this study demonstrates that Bard outperforms previous LVLMs in most multimodal capabilities except object hallucination, to which Bard is still susceptible. Tiny LVLM-eHub serves as a baseline evaluation for various LVLMs and encourages innovative strategies aimed at advancing multimodal techniques. Our project is publicly available at \url{https://github.com/OpenGVLab/Multi-Modality-Arena}. 

**ID:** 90  
**Title:** MAiVAR-T: Multimodal Audio-image and Video Action Recognizer using  Transformers  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03741  
**Abstract:** In line with the human capacity to perceive the world by simultaneously processing and integrating high-dimensional inputs from multiple modalities like vision and audio, we propose a novel model, MAiVAR-T (Multimodal Audio-Image to Video Action Recognition Transformer). This model employs an intuitive approach for the combination of audio-image and video modalities, with a primary aim to escalate the effectiveness of multimodal human action recognition (MHAR). At the core of MAiVAR-T lies the significance of distilling substantial representations from the audio modality and transmuting these into the image domain. Subsequently, this audio-image depiction is fused with the video modality to formulate a unified representation. This concerted approach strives to exploit the contextual richness inherent in both audio and video modalities, thereby promoting action recognition. In contrast to existing state-of-the-art strategies that focus solely on audio or video modalities, MAiVAR-T demonstrates superior performance. Our extensive empirical evaluations conducted on a benchmark action recognition dataset corroborate the model's remarkable performance. This underscores the potential enhancements derived from integrating audio and video modalities for action recognition purposes. 

**ID:** 91  
**Title:** What about translation? New coding system for content analysis on the  perception of literary translation around the political transformation in  1989 in Hungary as a classification problem on an unbalanced dataset  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03742  
**Abstract:** To track trends in the perception of literary translation around the political transformation in 1989 in Hungary, a coding system was developed on the paragraphs of the 1980-1999 issues of the literary journal Alf\"old. This paper describes how we trained BERT models to carry over the coding system to the 1980-1999 issues of the literary journal Nagyvil\'ag. We use extensive hyperparameter tuning, loss functions robust to label unbalance, 10-fold cross-validation for precise evaluations and a model ensemble for prediction, manual validation on the predict set, a new calibration method to better predict label counts for sections of the Nagyvil\'ag corpus, and to study the relations between labels, we construct label relation networks. 

**ID:** 92  
**Title:** Assessing Intra-class Diversity and Quality of Synthetically Generated  Images in a Biomedical and Non-biomedical Setting  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02505  
**Abstract:** In biomedical image analysis, data imbalance is common across several imaging modalities. Data augmentation is one of the key solutions in addressing this limitation. Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are increasingly being relied upon for data augmentation tasks. Biomedical image features are sensitive to evaluating the efficacy of synthetic images. These features can have a significant impact on metric scores when evaluating synthetic images across different biomedical imaging modalities. Synthetically generated images can be evaluated by comparing the diversity and quality of real images. Multi-scale Structural Similarity Index Measure and Cosine Distance are used to evaluate intra-class diversity, while Frechet Inception Distance is used to evaluate the quality of synthetic images. Assessing these metrics for biomedical and non-biomedical imaging is important to investigate an informed strategy in evaluating the diversity and quality of synthetic images. In this work, an empirical assessment of these metrics is conducted for the Deep Convolutional GAN in a biomedical and non-biomedical setting. The diversity and quality of synthetic images are evaluated using different sample sizes. This research intends to investigate the variance in diversity and quality across biomedical and non-biomedical imaging modalities. Results demonstrate that the metrics scores for diversity and quality vary significantly across biomedical-to-biomedical and biomedical-to-non-biomedical imaging modalities. 

**ID:** 93  
**Title:** Seeing through the Brain: Image Reconstruction of Visual Perception from  Human Brain Signals  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02510  
**Abstract:** Seeing is believing, however, the underlying mechanism of how human visual perceptions are intertwined with our cognitions is still a mystery. Thanks to the recent advances in both neuroscience and artificial intelligence, we have been able to record the visually evoked brain activities and mimic the visual perception ability through computational approaches. In this paper, we pay attention to visual stimuli reconstruction by reconstructing the observed images based on portably accessible brain signals, i.e., electroencephalography (EEG) data. Since EEG signals are dynamic in the time-series format and are notorious to be noisy, processing and extracting useful information requires more dedicated efforts; In this paper, we propose a comprehensive pipeline, named NeuroImagen, for reconstructing visual stimuli images from EEG signals. Specifically, we incorporate a novel multi-level perceptual information decoding to draw multi-grained outputs from the given EEG data. A latent diffusion model will then leverage the extracted information to reconstruct the high-resolution visual stimuli images. The experimental results have illustrated the effectiveness of image reconstruction and superior quantitative performance of our proposed method. 

**ID:** 94  
**Title:** Choir Transformer: Generating Polyphonic Music with Relative Attention  on Transformer  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02531  
**Abstract:** Polyphonic music generation is still a challenge direction due to its correct between generating melody and harmony. Most of the previous studies used RNN-based models. However, the RNN-based models are hard to establish the relationship between long-distance notes. In this paper, we propose a polyphonic music generation neural network named Choir Transformer[ https://github.com/Zjy0401/choir-transformer], with relative positional attention to better model the structure of music. We also proposed a music representation suitable for polyphonic music generation. The performance of Choir Transformer surpasses the previous state-of-the-art accuracy of 4.06%. We also measures the harmony metrics of polyphonic music. Experiments show that the harmony metrics are close to the music of Bach. In practical application, the generated melody and rhythm can be adjusted according to the specified input, with different styles of music like folk music or pop music and so on. 

**ID:** 95  
**Title:** Synthesising Rare Cataract Surgery Samples with Guided Diffusion Models  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02587  
**Abstract:** Cataract surgery is a frequently performed procedure that demands automation and advanced assistance systems. However, gathering and annotating data for training such systems is resource intensive. The publicly available data also comprises severe imbalances inherent to the surgical process. Motivated by this, we analyse cataract surgery video data for the worst-performing phases of a pre-trained downstream tool classifier. The analysis demonstrates that imbalances deteriorate the classifier's performance on underrepresented cases. To address this challenge, we utilise a conditional generative model based on Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models (DDIM) and Classifier-Free Guidance (CFG). Our model can synthesise diverse, high-quality examples based on complex multi-class multi-label conditions, such as surgical phases and combinations of surgical tools. We affirm that the synthesised samples display tools that the classifier recognises. These samples are hard to differentiate from real images, even for clinical experts with more than five years of experience. Further, our synthetically extended data can improve the data sparsity problem for the downstream task of tool classification. The evaluations demonstrate that the model can generate valuable unseen examples, allowing the tool classifier to improve by up to 10% for rare cases. Overall, our approach can facilitate the development of automated assistance systems for cataract surgery by providing a reliable source of realistic synthetic data, which we make available for everyone. 

**ID:** 96  
**Title:** Frequency Disentangled Features in Neural Image Compression  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02620  
**Abstract:** The design of a neural image compression network is governed by how well the entropy model matches the true distribution of the latent code. Apart from the model capacity, this ability is indirectly under the effect of how close the relaxed quantization is to the actual hard quantization. Optimizing the parameters of a rate-distortion variational autoencoder (R-D VAE) is ruled by this approximated quantization scheme. In this paper, we propose a feature-level frequency disentanglement to help the relaxed scalar quantization achieve lower bit rates by guiding the high entropy latent features to include most of the low-frequency texture of the image. In addition, to strengthen the de-correlating power of the transformer-based analysis/synthesis transform, an augmented self-attention score calculation based on the Hadamard product is utilized during both encoding and decoding. Channel-wise autoregressive entropy modeling takes advantage of the proposed frequency separation as it inherently directs high-informational low-frequency channels to the first chunks and conditions the future chunks on it. The proposed network not only outperforms hand-engineered codecs, but also neural network-based codecs built on computation-heavy spatially autoregressive entropy models. 

**ID:** 97  
**Title:** Thin On-Sensor Nanophotonic Array Cameras  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02797  
**Abstract:** Today's commodity camera systems rely on compound optics to map light originating from the scene to positions on the sensor where it gets recorded as an image. To record images without optical aberrations, i.e., deviations from Gauss' linear model of optics, typical lens systems introduce increasingly complex stacks of optical elements which are responsible for the height of existing commodity cameras. In this work, we investigate \emph{flat nanophotonic computational cameras} as an alternative that employs an array of skewed lenslets and a learned reconstruction approach. The optical array is embedded on a metasurface that, at 700~nm height, is flat and sits on the sensor cover glass at 2.5~mm focal distance from the sensor. To tackle the highly chromatic response of a metasurface and design the array over the entire sensor, we propose a differentiable optimization method that continuously samples over the visible spectrum and factorizes the optical modulation for different incident fields into individual lenses. We reconstruct a megapixel image from our flat imager with a \emph{learned probabilistic reconstruction} method that employs a generative diffusion model to sample an implicit prior. To tackle \emph{scene-dependent aberrations in broadband}, we propose a method for acquiring paired captured training data in varying illumination conditions. We assess the proposed flat camera design in simulation and with an experimental prototype, validating that the method is capable of recovering images from diverse scenes in broadband with a single nanophotonic layer. 

**ID:** 98  
**Title:** Landmark Detection using Transformer Toward Robot-assisted Nasal Airway  Intubation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02845  
**Abstract:** Robot-assisted airway intubation application needs high accuracy in locating targets and organs. Two vital landmarks, nostrils and glottis, can be detected during the intubation to accommodate the stages of nasal intubation. Automated landmark detection can provide accurate localization and quantitative evaluation. The Detection Transformer (DeTR) leads object detectors to a new paradigm with long-range dependence. However, current DeTR requires long iterations to converge, and does not perform well in detecting small objects. This paper proposes a transformer-based landmark detection solution with deformable DeTR and the semantic-aligned-matching module for detecting landmarks in robot-assisted intubation. The semantics aligner can effectively align the semantics of object queries and image features in the same embedding space using the most discriminative features. To evaluate the performance of our solution, we utilize a publicly accessible glottis dataset and automatically annotate a nostril detection dataset. The experimental results demonstrate our competitive performance in detection accuracy. Our code is publicly accessible. 

**ID:** 99  
**Title:** Generative Adversarial Networks for Stain Normalisation in  Histopathology  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02851  
**Abstract:** The rapid growth of digital pathology in recent years has provided an ideal opportunity for the development of artificial intelligence-based tools to improve the accuracy and efficiency of clinical diagnoses. One of the significant roadblocks to current research is the high level of visual variability across digital pathology images, causing models to generalise poorly to unseen data. Stain normalisation aims to standardise the visual profile of digital pathology images without changing the structural content of the images. In this chapter, we explore different techniques which have been used for stain normalisation in digital pathology, with a focus on approaches which utilise generative adversarial networks (GANs). Typically, GAN-based methods outperform non-generative approaches but at the cost of much greater computational requirements. However, it is not clear which method is best for stain normalisation in general, with different GAN and non-GAN approaches outperforming each other in different scenarios and according to different performance metrics. This is an ongoing field of study as researchers aim to identify a method which efficiently and effectively normalises pathology images to make AI models more robust and generalisable. 

**ID:** 100  
**Title:** DermoSegDiff: A Boundary-aware Segmentation Diffusion Model for Skin  Lesion Delineation  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.02959  
**Abstract:** Skin lesion segmentation plays a critical role in the early detection and accurate diagnosis of dermatological conditions. Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) have recently gained attention for their exceptional image-generation capabilities. Building on these advancements, we propose DermoSegDiff, a novel framework for skin lesion segmentation that incorporates boundary information during the learning process. Our approach introduces a novel loss function that prioritizes the boundaries during training, gradually reducing the significance of other regions. We also introduce a novel U-Net-based denoising network that proficiently integrates noise and semantic information inside the network. Experimental results on multiple skin segmentation datasets demonstrate the superiority of DermoSegDiff over existing CNN, transformer, and diffusion-based approaches, showcasing its effectiveness and generalization in various scenarios. The implementation is publicly accessible on \href{https://github.com/mindflow-institue/dermosegdiff}{GitHub} 

**ID:** 101  
**Title:** Energy-Guided Diffusion Model for CBCT-to-CT Synthesis  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03354  
**Abstract:** Cone Beam CT (CBCT) plays a crucial role in Adaptive Radiation Therapy (ART) by accurately providing radiation treatment when organ anatomy changes occur. However, CBCT images suffer from scatter noise and artifacts, making relying solely on CBCT for precise dose calculation and accurate tissue localization challenging. Therefore, there is a need to improve CBCT image quality and Hounsfield Unit (HU) accuracy while preserving anatomical structures. To enhance the role and application value of CBCT in ART, we propose an energy-guided diffusion model (EGDiff) and conduct experiments on a chest tumor dataset to generate synthetic CT (sCT) from CBCT. The experimental results demonstrate impressive performance with an average absolute error of 26.87$\pm$6.14 HU, a structural similarity index measurement of 0.850$\pm$0.03, a peak signal-to-noise ratio of the sCT of 19.83$\pm$1.39 dB, and a normalized cross-correlation of the sCT of 0.874$\pm$0.04. These results indicate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art unsupervised synthesis methods in accuracy and visual quality, producing superior sCT images. 

**ID:** 102  
**Title:** Linear Convergence Bounds for Diffusion Models via Stochastic  Localization  
**PDF:** https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03686  
**Abstract:** Diffusion models are a powerful method for generating approximate samples from high-dimensional data distributions. Several recent results have provided polynomial bounds on the convergence rate of such models, assuming $L^2$-accurate score estimators. However, up until now the best known such bounds were either superlinear in the data dimension or required strong smoothness assumptions. We provide the first convergence bounds which are linear in the data dimension (up to logarithmic factors) assuming only finite second moments of the data distribution. We show that diffusion models require at most $\tilde O(\frac{d \log^2(1/\delta)}{\varepsilon^2})$ steps to approximate an arbitrary data distribution on $\mathbb{R}^d$ corrupted with Gaussian noise of variance $\delta$ to within $\varepsilon^2$ in Kullback--Leibler divergence. Our proof builds on the Girsanov-based methods of previous works. We introduce a refined treatment of the error arising from the discretization of the reverse SDE, which is based on tools from stochastic localization. 

